Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 17 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 1C Cybersecurity 29 Item 2 Properties 30 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 [Reserved] 32 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 120 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 120 Item 9B Other Information 120 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 120 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 121 Item 11 Executive Compensation 121 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 121 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 122 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 122 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 123 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 128 Signatures 129 2 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding growth opportunities, including for and in our end markets, new product and service introductions, the position and strength of our businesses, products and services, market demand for and adoption of our products and solutions, the ability of our products and solutions to address customer needs and meet industry requirements, our focus on enhancing our customers experience, delivering differentiated product solutions and driving productivity improvements, our investments, including in manufacturing infrastructure, research and development and expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolios, expanding our position in developing countries and emerging markets, our contributions to our defined benefit plans, our hedging programs and other actions to offset the effects of foreign currency and interest rate movements, our future effective tax rate, unrecognized tax benefits, reimbursement incentives, our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements, including through cash generated from operations, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, indemnification obligations, our sales, our purchase commitments, our capital expenditures, the integration, effects and timing of our acquisitions and other transactions, expense reduction and other results from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, our stock repurchase program and dividends, macroeconomic and market conditions, the recovery and health of our end markets, seasonality, mix, future financial results, our operating margin, our geographical diversification, interest rates, inflationary pressures and local regulations and restrictions, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Part I Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Agilent Technologies Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global leader in life sciences, diagnostics and applied chemical markets, providing application focused solutions that include instruments, software, services and consumables for the entire laboratory workflow. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, we announced a change in our operating segments to move our cell analysis business from our life sciences and applied markets segment to our diagnostics and genomics operating segment in order to further strengthen growth opportunities for both organizations. Following this reorganization, we continued to have three business segments comprised of life sciences and applied markets, diagnostics and genomics and Agilent CrossLab, each of which continues to comprise a reportable segment. All historical financial segment information has been recast to conform to this new presentation in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. There was no change to our Agilent CrossLab business segment. See also Note 23, "Subsequent Event" for additional information on recent changes to our organizational structure. Our life sciences and applied markets business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, consumables and software that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular and cellular level. Our consumables portfolio is designed to improve customer outcomes. Our diagnostics and genomics business is comprised of seven areas of activity providing active pharmaceutical ingredients ("APIs") for oligo-based therapeutics as well as solutions that include reagents, instruments, software and consumables which enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the cellular and molecular level. The Agilent CrossLab business spans the entire lab with its extensive services portfolio, which is designed to improve customer outcomes. In addition, we conduct centralized order fulfillment and supply chain operations for our businesses through the order fulfillment and supply chain organization ("OFS"). OFS provides resources for manufacturing, engineering and strategic sourcing to our respective businesses. Each of our businesses, together with OFS, is supported by our global infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, certain procurement services, workplace services and human resources. We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and electronic commerce. As of October 31, 2024, we employed approximately 17,900 people worldwide. Our primary research and development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado, Delaware, Massachusetts, Texas and Vermont in the U.S. and in Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 3 Table of Contents Life Sciences and Applied Markets Business Our life sciences and applied markets business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, consumables and software that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular and cellular level. Key product categories include: liquid chromatography ("LC") systems and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ("LCMS") systems; gas chromatography ("GC") systems and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry ("GCMS") systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ("ICP-MS") instruments; atomic absorption ("AA") instruments; microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometry ("MP-AES") instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry ("ICP-OES") instruments; raman spectroscopy; laboratory software for sample tracking; information management and analytics; laboratory automation and robotic systems; dissolution testing; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies. Our consumables portfolio is designed to improve customer outcomes. Most of the portfolio is vendor neutral, meaning Agilent can serve and supply customers regardless of their instrument purchase choices. Solutions range from chemistries to supplies. Key product categories in consumables include GC and LC columns, sample preparation products, custom chemistries, and a large selection of laboratory instrument supplies. We employed approximately 6,000 people as of October 31, 2024 in our life sciences and applied markets business. Life Sciences and Applied Markets The Pharmaceutical, Biopharmaceutical, CRO CMO Market. This market consists of for-profit companies which participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery development, clinical trials, manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies ("pharma"). A second sub-segment includes biopharmaceutical companies ("biopharma"), contract research organizations ("CROs") and contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs"). Biopharma companies and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the pharmaceutical industry value chain. Additionally, due to the relatively low drug efficacy within oncology, pharma companies are partnering with diagnostic companies to bring validated tests to the market with their new drugs. The Academic and Government Market. This market consists primarily of not-for-profit organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The academic and government market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for pharmaceutical and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research by government funding bodies, the focus has widened to include translational research - multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at accelerating therapy development. The Chemicals Advanced Materials Market. Our products and solutions are used throughout the chemicals sector in the development, manufacturing, and quality control of commodity chemicals, specialty and agrochemicals, and fine chemicals. Chemical market customers use our products to determine chemical composition, perform impurity analysis, qualify raw materials, conduct materials characterization, and verify and ensure the environmental safety of operations and employees. Our products are used to test for safety, quality, and compliance across the value chains of advanced materials including semiconductors/electronics, batteries, specially engineered polymers and polymeric materials, minerals metals, thin film optics, consumer products and packing materials from the upstream raw materials, materials production, and final products to the end markets and recycling. The upstream petroleum exploration and refining markets use our products to analyze natural gas, crude oil composition, perform intermediate material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. The Environmental Forensics Market. Our instruments, software and workflow solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of regulated and unregulated chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories, public and private utilities and colleges and universities. Drug testing and forensics laboratories use our instruments, software and workflow solutions for applications such as analyzing evidence associated with crime, screening athletes for performance enhancing drugs, analyzing samples for recreational drugs, or detecting and identifying biological and chemical warfare agents. Some of our instruments are used in mobile laboratories as well. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories. 4 Table of Contents The Food Market. Our instruments, software, and workflow solutions are used throughout the food production chain, including incoming inspection, new product development, quality control and assurance, and packaging. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio is used to analyze contaminants and residual pesticides in food. There is also a significant food safety market involved in analyzing food for pathogen contamination, accurate verification of species type and evidence of genetically modified content. The Diagnostics and Clinical Market. The diagnostics and clinical market focus within our life sciences and applied markets business is to provide instruments, software, reagents, and consumables that enable customers performing life sciences, pharmaceutical and clinical research to interrogate biologically relevant metabolites, lipids, protein, and cellular systems to understand fundamental biological processes, as well as the underlying mechanisms of cancer and other disease initiation and progression. The goal is to use this information to develop new therapeutic strategies and drugs as well as new diagnostic tests. Our mass spectrometry technologies are employed by researchers to identify and quantify individual or whole classes of metabolites, lipids, or proteins involved in basic cellular processes and elucidate those which are quantitatively or qualitatively altered in disease states, as well as to identify those which may be useful as biomarkers for a disease. Life Sciences and Applied Markets Products and Applications Our products fall into the following main areas of work: liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, spectroscopy, software and informatics, lab automation and robotics, vacuum technology, remarketed instruments and chemistries and supplies. Our key products and applications include the following technologies: Liquid Chromatography A liquid chromatograph, high-performance liquid chromatograph ("HPLC") or ultra-high performance liquid chromatograph ( UHPLC ) is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. The Agilent LC portfolio is largely modular in construction and can be configured as analytical and preparative systems. These systems can be stepwise upgraded to highly sophisticated, automated workflow solutions such as method development, multi method/walk-up, high-capacity/high-throughput or multi dimensional LC and can be extended to application based analyzers (e.g., for bio-molecular separations, chiral analysis or size exclusion chromatography). As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns, new services and ongoing instrument and software product enhancements. Gas Chromatography Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. Gas chromatographs are used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. Agilent provides custom or standard analyzers configured for specific chemical analysis applications, such as detailed speciation of a complex hydrocarbon stream, calculation of gas calorific values in the field, or analysis of a new bio-fuel formulation. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. Mass Spectrometry A mass spectrometer ( MS ) identifies and quantifies compounds based on their molecular mass and characteristic patterns of fragment ion masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. MS is an important tool in analyzing a broad spectrum of analytes, from small molecules, such as pesticides, to large molecules, such as intact proteins and other biological entities. Liquid chromatography ("LC") and gas chromatography ("GC") are commonly used to separate compounds and introduce them to the MS system. Agilent's LCMS portfolio includes instruments built around four main analyzer types - single quadrupole, triple quadrupole, time-of-flight ("TOF") and quadrupole time-of-flight ("QTOF"). Agilent's GC/MS portfolio includes instruments built around three main analyzer types - single quadrupole, triple quadrupole, and quadrupole time-of-flight ("QTOF"). We significantly expanded our mass spectrometry portfolio in recent years with a focus on improving performance, sensitivity, precision, robustness, ease of use and onboard intelligence. 5 Table of Contents Spectroscopy Spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of specific wavelengths of light. Our spectroscopy instruments include AA spectrometers, microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometers ("MP-AES"), ICP-OES, ICP-MS, fluorescence spectrophotometers, ultraviolet-visible ("UV-Vis") spectrophotometers, Fourier Transform infrared ("FT-IR") spectrometers, near-infrared ("NIR") spectrometers, raman spectrometers and sample automation products. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. Software and Informatics We provide informatics and scientific software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, secure storage of results, and laboratory information/workflow management. Our software facilitates the compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. With our OpenLab Laboratory Software Suite, Agilent has a scalable, open software platform that enables customers to capture, analyze, and share scientific data throughout the lab and across the enterprise. Laboratory Automation and Robotics We offer a portfolio of unique sample preparation automated solutions that are key to a comprehensive suite of workflow solutions to our life science and genomics customers. This includes liquid handling, plate management, unique consumables and scheduling software with solutions that range from standalone instrumentation to bench-top automation solutions. These solutions strengthen our offering of automated sample preparation across a broad range of applications which are integrated with several of our analytical and NGS platforms across the company. Vacuum Technology Our vacuum technologies products are used to create, control, measure and test vacuum environments in life science, industrial and scientific applications where ultra-clean, high-vacuum environments are needed. Vacuum technologies' customers are typically OEMs that manufacture equipment for these applications, or government and research organizations that require vacuum solutions in their facilities. Products include a wide range of high and ultra-high vacuum pumps (diffusion, turbo molecular and ion getter), primary vacuum pumps (rotary vane and dry scroll), vacuum instrumentation (vacuum control instruments, sensor gauges and meters) and vacuum components (valves, flanges and other mechanical hardware). These products also include helium mass spectrometry and helium-sensing leak detection instruments used to identify and measure leaks in hermetic or vacuum environments. In addition to product sales, we also offer a wide range of services including an exchange and rebuild program, assistance with the design and integration of vacuum systems, applications support and training in basic and advanced vacuum technologies. Chemistries and Supplies We offer a broad range of market specific consumables and supplies to complete customers' analytical workflows from sample preparation through separation and analysis to storage, with the support of our technology platforms. This includes sample preparation consumables such as solid phase extraction ("SPE") and filtration products, self-manufactured GC and LC columns, chemical standards, and instrument replacement parts. Consumable products also include scientific instrument parts and supplies such as filters and fittings for GC systems; xenon lamps and cuvettes for UV-Vis-NIR, fluorescence, FT-IR and raman spectroscopy instruments; and graphite furnace tubes, hollow cathode lamps and specialized sample introduction glassware for our AA, ICP-OES and ICP-MS products. Remarketed Instruments We refurbish and resell certified pre-owned instruments to value-oriented customers who demand Agilent quality and performance at a budget conscious price. 6 Table of Contents Life Sciences and Applied Markets Customers We had approximately 52,000 customers for our life sciences and applied markets business in fiscal year 2024. A significant number of our life sciences and applied markets customers are also customers of our Agilent CrossLab business. The life sciences and applied markets business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily related to U.S. and foreign government budgets, chemicals and advanced materials and environmental customers and large pharmaceutical company budgets. Historically, the result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for the life sciences and applied markets business. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. Life Sciences and Applied Markets Sales, Marketing and Support The life sciences and applied markets channels focus on the therapeutics and human disease research customer base (pharma, biopharma, CRO, CMO and generics), clinical customer base (high complexity clinical testing labs), emerging life sciences opportunities in life science research institutes and applied markets (chemicals and advanced materials, food, environmental and forensics). We deploy a multi-channel approach, marketing products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We primarily use direct sales to market our solutions to our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, clinical, life science research and applied market accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, electronic commerce and direct sales. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. Life Sciences and Applied Markets Manufacturing Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. Our manufacturing process then converts these designs into standard as well as custom products for shipment to customers. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. Inside the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in California, Delaware and Rhode Island. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Australia, China, Germany, Italy, Malaysia, Netherlands, Singapore and the United Kingdom. We have FDA registered sites in California, Germany and Singapore. Life Sciences and Applied Markets Competition The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences and applied markets arena include: Danaher Corporation, PerkinElmer Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Waters Corporation. We compete on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. Diagnostics and Genomics Business Our diagnostics and genomics business includes the cell analysis, advanced manufacturing partnerships and research and development, pathology, companion diagnostics, reagent partnership, genomics and biomolecular analysis businesses. Our diagnostics and genomics business is comprised of seven areas of activity providing active pharmaceutical ingredients ("APIs") for oligo-based therapeutics as well as solutions that include reagents, instruments, software and consumables, which enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the cellular and molecular level. First, our cell analysis business includes instruments, reagents, software, and labware associated with unique live-cell analysis platforms in addition to mainstream flow cytometers, plate-readers, and plate washers/dispensers which are used across a broad range of applications. Second, our advanced manufacturing partnerships business is a contract and development manufacturing organization that provides services related to and the production of synthesized oligonucleotides under pharmaceutical good manufacturing practices ("GMP") conditions for use as API in a class of drugs that utilize nucleic acid molecules for disease therapy. Together, our BIOVECTRA and nucleic acid solutions businesses offer a broader range of contract and development manufacturing services to our customers. They also provide clinical-to-commercial scale production capabilities focused mainly on mRNA manufacturing. Third, our pathology solutions business is focused on product offerings for cancer diagnostics and anatomic pathology workflows. The broad portfolio of offerings includes immunohistochemistry 7 Table of Contents ("IHC"), in situ hybridization ("ISH"), hematoxylin and eosin ("H E") staining and special staining. Fourth, we also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential tissue pharmacodiagnostics, also known as companion diagnostics, which may be used to identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. Fifth, the reagent partnership business provides clinical flow cytometry reagents for routine cancer diagnostics. This business also provides bulk antibodies as raw materials and associated assay development services to in vitro diagnostics ("IVD") manufacturers, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Sixth, our genomics business includes arrays and next generation sequencing ("NGS"). This business also includes solutions that enable clinical labs to identify DNA variants associated with genetic disease and help direct cancer therapy. Finally, our biomolecular analysis business provides complete workflow solutions, including instruments, consumables and software, for quality control analysis of nucleic acid samples. Samples are analyzed using quantitative and qualitative techniques to ensure accuracy in further genomics analysis techniques including NGS, utilized in clinical and life science research applications. We employed approximately 4,600 people as of October 31, 2024 in our diagnostics and genomics business. Diagnostics and Genomics Market The Diagnostics and Clinical Market. The diagnostics and clinical market focus within the diagnostics and genomics business is to provide instruments, software, reagents, and consumables that enable customers to perform clinical research and routine testing. Our high-quality, automated pathology tissue staining platforms and solutions are used most heavily by the large labs located in hospitals, medical centers, and reference labs. The market focus is on mature economies primarily in North America, Western Europe and Japan. The mix is changing, however, as emerging markets increase spending on human health. The clinical market for genomics consists of high complexity clinical labs performing patient testing, including for-profit reference laboratories, hospital labs, and molecular diagnostic companies. While some labs purchase IVD labeled testing kits, others often develop and validate their own molecular based tests. Analyte Specific Reagents ("ASRs") are often used by these labs. Additionally, our Seahorse, xCELLigence, Novocyte, and BioTek platform technologies are used both stand-alone and in conjunction with mass spectrometry to understand underlying cellular physiology and interactions in normal and diseased states, as well to help understand how new drugs and therapies alter the composition, function, or interaction of cells. In addition, our XCELLigence and Novocyte technologies can be used to characterize and quantify immune cell response (for example cytotoxicity). The Pharmaceutical, Biopharmaceutical, CRO CMO Market. This market consists of for-profit companies which participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery development, clinical trials, manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies ("pharma"). A second sub-segment includes biopharmaceutical companies ("biopharma"), contract research organizations ("CROs") and contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs"). Our primary focus is on biopharma working with advanced therapeutic modalities (e.g., cell and gene therapies) where we provide a suite of research tools and companion diagnostic development services. Additionally, we provide active pharmaceutical ingredient ("API") contract development and manufacturing services for oligonucleotide-based therapeutic modalities. With the acquisition of BIOVECTRA, we will offer our pharmaceutical customers even more specialized manufacturing capabilities for targeted therapeutics, from sterile-fill finish to a single source for gene editing solutions. Diagnostics and Genomics Products Our products fall into these main areas of work: pathology products, cell analysis, specific proteins and flow cytometry reagents, companion diagnostics, target enrichment, cytogenetic research solutions and microarrays, qPCR instrumentation and molecular biology reagents