Item 1. BUSINESS 1 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 15 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 25 Item 2. PROPERTIES 25 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 26 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 26 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 27 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 29 Item 6. [RESERVED] 31 Item 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 32 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 48 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 49 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 103 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 103 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 105 PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 106 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 106 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 107 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 107 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 107 PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 108 Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 112 SIGNATURES 113 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview AbbVie (1) is a global, diversified research-based biopharmaceutical company positioned for success with a comprehensive product portfolio that has leadership positions across immunology, hematologic oncology, neuroscience, aesthetics and eye care. AbbVie uses its expertise, dedicated people and unique approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world s most complex and serious diseases. AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. Impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues to spread throughout the United States and around the world. As COVID-19 continues to have an impact worldwide, AbbVie is focused on the health and safety of its employees, health care professionals and patients and communities. In the continued operation of its business, AbbVie has followed health and safety guidance from relevant health authorities, managed manufacturing and supply chain resources and monitored closely its clinical trial sites. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)." Segments AbbVie operates as a single global business segment dedicated to the research and development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of innovative medicines and therapies. This operating structure enables the Chief Executive Officer, as chief operating decision maker (CODM), to allocate resources and assess business performance on a global basis in order to achieve established long-term strategic goals. Consistent with this structure, a global research and development and supply chain organization is responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Commercial efforts that coordinate the marketing, sales and distribution of these products are organized by geographic region or therapeutic area. All of these activities are supported by a global corporate administrative staff. The determination of a single business segment is consistent with the consolidated financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM for purposes of assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Area Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to AbbVie's key products and geographies included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the terms "AbbVie" or "the company" refer to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. 1 | 2021 Form 10-K Products AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. Immunology products. AbbVie maintains an extensive immunology portfolio across rheumatology, dermatology and gastroenterology. AbbVie's immunology products address unmet needs for patients with autoimmune diseases. These products are: Humira. Humira (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in the United States, Canada and Mexico (collectively, North America) and in the European Union: Condition Principal Markets Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Psoriatic arthritis North America, European Union Ankylosing spondylitis North America, European Union Adult Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe chronic) North America, European Union Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (moderate to severe polyarticular) North America, European Union Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Axial spondyloarthropathy European Union Pediatric Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Hidradenitis suppurativa (moderate to severe) North America, European Union Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis European Union Non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis North America, European Union Pediatric ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union Pediatric uveitis North America, European Union Humira is also approved in Japan for the treatment of intestinal Beh et's disease and pyoderma gangrenosum. Humira is sold in numerous other markets worldwide, including Japan, China, Brazil and Australia, and accounted for approximately 37% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2021. Skyrizi. Skyrizi (risankizumab) is an interleukin-23 (IL-23) inhibitor that selectively blocks IL-23 by binding to its p19 subunit. It is a biologic therapy administered as a quarterly subcutaneous injection following two induction doses. Skyrizi is approved in the United States, Canada, Mexico and the European Union and is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. In the United States and the European Union, Skyrizi is additionally approved for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). In Japan, Skyrizi is approved for the treatment of plaque psoriasis, generalized pustular psoriasis, erythrodermic psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have an inadequate response to conventional therapies. Rinvoq . Rinvoq (upadacitinib) is an oral, once-daily selective and reversible JAK inhibitor that is approved to treat the following inflammatory diseases in North America, Japan and the European Union: Condition Principal Markets Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) North America, European Union, Japan Psoriatic arthritis U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan Ankylosing spondylitis European Union Atopic dermatitis (moderate to severe) U.S., Canada, European Union, Japan In the United States, Rinvoq is indicated for both the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis, and for active psoriatic arthritis, in adult patients who have an inadequate response or intolerance to one or more TNF blockers. It is also indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and children 12 years of age and older whose disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or when use of those therapies are inadvisable. 2021 Form 10-K | 2 Oncology products. AbbVie s oncology products target some of the most complex and difficult-to-treat cancers. These products are: Imbruvica. Imbruvica (ibrutinib) is an oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase. Imbruvica was one of the first medicines to receive a United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and is one of the few therapies to receive four separate designations. Imbruvica currently is approved for the treatment of adult patients with blood cancers such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), as well as certain forms of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Venclexta/Venclyxto. Venclexta (venetoclax) is a B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) inhibitor used to treat hematological malignancies. Venclexta is approved by the FDA for adults with CLL or SLL. In addition, Venclexta is approved in combination with azacitidine, or decitabine, or low-dose cytarabine to treat adults with newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia who are 75 years of age or older or have other medical conditions that prevent the use of standard chemotherapy. Aesthetics products. AbbVie s Aesthetics portfolio consists of facial injectables, plastics and regenerative medicine, body contouring and skincare products, which hold market-leading positions in the U.S. and in key markets around the world. These products are: Botox Cosmetic. Botox Cosmetic is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent indicated for treatment in three areas: temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines (frown lines between the eyebrows), moderate to severe crow's feet and moderate to severe forehead lines in adults. Having received its initial FDA approval in 2002, Botox Cosmetic is now approved for use in all major markets around the world and has become one of the world s most recognized and iconic brands. The Juvederm Collection of Fillers. The Juvederm Collection of Fillers is a portfolio of hyaluronic acid-based dermal fillers with a variety of approved indications in the U.S. and in other major markets around the world to augment or treat volume loss in the cheeks, chin, lips and lower face. Other aesthetics. Other aesthetics products include, but are not limited to, Coolsculpting body contouring technology, Alloderm regenerative dermal tissue, Natrelle breast implants, the SkinMedica skincare line and DiamondGlow dermabrasion technology. Neuroscience products. AbbVie s neuroscience products address some of the most difficult-to-treat neurologic diseases. These products are: Botox Therapeutic. Botox Therapeutic (onabotulinumtoxinA injection) is a neuromuscular blocking agent that is injected into muscle tissue in treatment for the following indications in the United States: Prophylaxis of headaches in adult patients with chronic migraine ( 15 days per month with headache lasting 4 hours a day or longer). Overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency and frequency, in adults who have an inadequate response to or are intolerant of an anticholinergic medication. Urinary incontinence due to detrusor overactivity associated with a neurologic condition (e.g., spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis) in adults who have an inadequate response to or are intolerant of an anticholinergic medication. Spasticity in patients 2 years of age and older. Cervical dystonia in adults to reduce the severity of abnormal head position and neck pain associated with cervical dystonia. Strabismus and blepharospasm associated with dystonia, including benign essential blepharospasm or VII nerve disorders in patients 12 years of age and older. Severe primary axillary hyperhidrosis that is inadequately managed with topical agents. Licenses around the world vary. Focal spasticity associated with dynamic equinus foot deformity due to spasticity in ambulant pediatric cerebral palsy patients 2 years of age or older. 3 | 2021 Form 10-K Focal spasticity of the wrist and hand in adult post stroke patients. Focal spasticity of the ankle and foot in adult post stroke patients. Vraylar. Vraylar (cariprazine) is a dopamine D3-preferring D3/D2 receptor partial agonist and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist. Its D3 binding profile may be linked to observed improvements in the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and to antidepressant effects in bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression). Vraylar is indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults, acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder in adults and acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. Duopa and Duodopa (carbidopa and levodopa). AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States. Ubrelvy. Ubrelvy (ubrogepant) is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and is only commercialized in the United States. Other neuroscience. Other neuroscience products include Qulipta (atogepant), which is indicated for preventive treatment of episodic migraine in adults. Eye care products. AbbVie s eye care products address unmet needs and new approaches to help preserve and protect patients vision. These products are: Lumigan/Ganfort. Lumigan (bimatoprost ophthalmic solution) 0.01% is a once daily, topical prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open angle glaucoma (OAG) or ocular hypertension (OHT). Ganfort is a once daily topical fixed combination of bimatoprost 0.03% and timolol 0.5% for the reduction of IOP in adult patients with OAG or OHT. Lumigan is sold in the United States and numerous markets around the world, while Ganfort is approved in the European Union and some markets in South America, the Middle East and Asia. Alphagan/Combigan. Alphagan (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the reduction of elevated IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Combigan (brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) is approved for reducing elevated IOP in patients with glaucoma who require additional or adjunctive IOP-lowering therapy. Both Alphagan and Combigan are available for sale in the United States and numerous markets around the world. Restasis. Restasis is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Restasis is approved in the United States and a number of other markets in South America, the Middle East and Asia. Other eye care. Other eye care products include Xen, Durysta, Ozurdex, Refresh/Optive and Vuity. Women's health products. AbbVie s women's health products are: Lo Loestrin . Lo Loestrin Fe is an oral contraceptive. It is indicated for prevention of pregnancy with the lowest dose of estrogen with only 10mcg and is dispensed in a unique 24/2/2 regimen with a two-day hormone-free interval. It is marketed in the U.S. as Lo Loestrin Fe (norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets, ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets) and in select markets outside the U.S. as Lolo. Orilissa/Oriahnn. Orilissa (elagolix) is the first and only orally-administered, nonpeptide small molecule gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist specifically developed for women with moderate to severe endometriosis pain. It represents the first FDA-approved oral treatment for the management of moderate to severe pain associated with endometriosis in over a decade. Orilissa inhibits endogenous GnRH signaling by binding competitively to GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland. Administration results in dose-dependent suppression of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone, leading to decreased blood concentrations of ovarian sex hormones, estradiol and progesterone. Outside the United States, Orilissa is also launched in Canada. Oriahnn (elagolix, estradiol and norethindrone acetate capsules; elagolix capsules) is a combination prescription medicine used to control heavy menstrual bleeding related to uterine fibroids in women before menopause. Other women's health. Other women's health includes Liletta, a sterile, levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system indicated for prevention of pregnancy for up to six years. Other key products. AbbVie s other key products include, among other things, treatments for patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV), metabolic and hormone products that target a number of conditions, including exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism, as well as endocrinology products for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate 2021 Form 10-K | 4 cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. These products are: Mavyret/Maviret. Mavyret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) is approved in the United States and European Union (Maviret) for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with chronic HCV genotype 1-6 infection without cirrhosis and with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). It is also indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with HCV genotype 1 infection, who previously have been treated with a regimen containing an HCV NS5A inhibitor or an NS3/4A protease inhibitor, but not both. It is an 8-week, pan-genotypic treatment for patients without cirrhosis and following the EXPEDITION-8 study, also in patients with compensated cirrhosis who are new to treatment. Creon. Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic pancreatitis and several other conditions. Lupron. Lupron (leuprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection. Linzess/Constella. Linzess (linaclotide) is a once-daily guanylate cyclase-C agonist used in adults to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS C) and chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC). The product is marketed as Linzess in the United States and as Constella outside of the United States. Synthroid. Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism. AbbVie has the rights to sell Creon and Synthroid only in the United States. Marketing, Sales and Distribution Capabilities AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell and distribute its products worldwide. AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States many of the company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its promotional and market access efforts on key opinion leaders, payers, physicians and health systems. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic AbbVie has maintained its promotional activities with key stakeholders by leveraging digital engagement where permitted and in compliance with the locally applicable government guidance. AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels and other factors. In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers, pharmacies, patients or other customers. In 2021, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's pharmaceutical product sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 37% of AbbVie's 2021 gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the company's business. No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. Orders are generally filled on a current basis and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business. Competition The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products, therapies 5 | 2021 Form 10-K and biologics. For example, Humira competes with anti-TNF products, JAK inhibitors and other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states and Mavyret/Maviret competes with other available HCV treatment options. In addition, in the past few years, a number of other companies have started to develop, have successfully developed and/or are currently marketing products that are being positioned as competitors to Botox. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded conventional (small-molecule) pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection. New products or treatments brought to market by AbbVie s competitors could cause revenues for AbbVie s products to decrease due to price reductions and sales volume decreases. Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie s biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as biosimilars. Biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for small molecule medications, and many biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products. Humira is now facing direct biosimilar competition in Europe and other countries, and AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and from orally administered products. In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FFDCA), the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) and the regulations implementing these statutes. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the PHSA, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is complex. Approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data, bioequivalence studies and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies) and clinical studies. Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered by the FDA as substitutable for the original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The law continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its full ultimate impact, implementation and meaning remains subject to uncertainty. Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie s intellectual property is materially valuable to the company, and AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, the expiration date for patents is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a patent term restoration, for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the FFDCA. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (NDA) for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. Biological products licensed under the PHSA are similarly eligible for terms of patent restoration. Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length and requirements for each of these exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a conventional drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Specific conditions of use approved for 2021 Form 10-K | 6 individual products may also be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days all existing exclusivities (patent and regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of exclusivity. Other types of regulatory exclusivity may also be available, such as Generating New Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) exclusivity, which can provide new antibiotic or new antifungal drugs an additional five years of exclusivity to be added to certain exclusivities already provided for by law. Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product or particular characteristics of a product is entitled upon approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may offer protection where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for eac