Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 49 Item 1 C . C ybersecurity 49 Item 2. Properties 49 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 49 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 50 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 51 Item 6. [Reserved] 52 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 102 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 102 Item 9B. Other Information 102 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 103 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 104 Item 11. Executive Compensation 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 104 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 104 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 104 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 105 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 107 Signatures 108 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, about us and our industry that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements regarding our strategy, future financial condition, future operations, projected costs, prospects, plans, objectives of management, and expected market growth, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, shall, should, expects, plans, anticipates, could, intends, target, projects, contemplates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential, goal, objective, seeks, or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: the effects of macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth or recession, higher interest rates, high unemployment, and foreign currency fluctuations, on the demand for travel or similar experiences; the effects of fluctuations in demand for Host homes, including lower demand in certain areas or as a result of oversupply in others; the effects of supply constraints on availability of Host homes; our ability to attract and retain Hosts and guests; our ability to effectively manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the impact of the ongoing armed conflicts around the world on our business; our expectations regarding our financial performance, including our revenue, costs, Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization, and Free Cash Flow; our expectations regarding future operating performance, including Nights and Experiences Booked, Gross Booking Value ( GBV ), Average Daily Rate, and GBV per Night and Experience Booked; our ability to compete in our industry; our expectations regarding the resilience of our model, including in areas such as domestic travel, short-distance travel, travel outside of top cities, and long-term stays; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations that currently apply or may become applicable to our business, both in the United States and internationally, and our expectations regarding various laws and restrictions that relate to our business; seasonality, including the return of pre-COVID-19 pandemic patterns of seasonality, and the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations; our expectations regarding the impact of our marketing strategy, and our ability to continue to attract guests and Hosts to our platform through direct and unpaid channels; anticipated trends, developments, and challenges in our industry, business, and the highly competitive markets in which we operate; our ability to anticipate market needs or develop new or enhanced offerings and services to meet those needs; our ability to manage expansion into international markets and new businesses; laws, regulations, and rules that affect the short-term rental, long-term rental, and home sharing business that have limited and may continue to limit the ability or willingness of Hosts to share their spaces over our platform and expose our Hosts or us to significant fees or penalties; the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as other highly infectious diseases such as influenza or respiratory syncytial virus, on our business, the travel industry, travel trends, and the global economy generally; the impact on our income as a result of the release of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; our expectations regarding lodging tax obligations and other non-income tax matters; our expectations regarding our income tax liabilities, including anticipated increases in foreign taxes, valuation allowances, and the adequacy of our reserves; our ability to effectively manage our growth and expand our infrastructure and our ability to maintain our corporate culture and our employee initiatives; the safety, affordability, and convenience of our platform and our offerings; our ability to successfully defend litigation brought against us; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments to meet our liquidity needs; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to make required payments under our credit agreement and to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness; human capital management, including our Live and Work Anywhere policy and diversity and belonging initiatives and commitments; environmental, social, and governance ( ESG ) matters, including potential impacts of environmental risks, including climate change, on our business, and our net-zero emissions and climate-related initiatives and commitments; and our plan to make distributions to our Host Endowment Fund. We caution you that the foregoing list does not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects. Although we believe that we have a reasonable basis for each forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur at all. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors described in the section titled