Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1C. Cybersecurit y 15 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. [Reserved] 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 80 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 80 Item 9B. Other Information 80 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 80 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 81 Item 11. Executive Compensation 81 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 81 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 82 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 82 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 83 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 Signatures 91 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900. Abbott s* principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture, and sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Abbott has four reportable segments: Established Pharmaceutical Products, Diagnostic Products, Nutritional Products, and Medical Devices. Established Pharmaceutical Products These products include a broad line of branded generic pharmaceuticals manufactured worldwide and marketed and sold outside the United States in emerging markets. These products are generally sold directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, pharmacies, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers or public warehouses, depending on the market served. Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with, or licensed from, other companies. The principal products included in the broad therapeutic area portfolios of the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment are: gastroenterology products, including Creon , for the treatment of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency associated with several underlying conditions, including cystic fibrosis and chronic pancreatitis; Duspatal and Dicetel , for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome or biliary spasm; Heptral , Transmetil , and Samyr , for the treatment of intrahepatic cholestasis (associated with liver disease) or depressive symptoms; and Duphalac , for regulation of the physiological rhythm of the colon; women s health products, including Duphaston , for the treatment of many different gynecological disorders; and Femoston , a hormone replacement therapy for postmenopausal women; cardiovascular and metabolic products, including Lipanthyl and TriCor , for the treatment of dyslipidemia; Teveten and Teveten Plus, for the treatment of essential hypertension, and Physiotens , for the treatment of hypertension; and Synthroid , for the treatment of hypothyroidism; pain and central nervous system products, including Serc , for the treatment of M ni re s disease and vestibular vertigo; Brufen , for the treatment of pain, fever, and inflammation; and Sevedol , for the treatment of severe migraines; and respiratory drugs and vaccines, including the anti-infective clarithromycin (sold under the trademarks Klacid , Claribid , and Klaricid ); and Influvac , an influenza vaccine. The Established Pharmaceutical Products segment directs its primary marketing efforts toward building strong brands with key stakeholders, including consumers, pharmacists, physicians, and other healthcare providers. Government agencies are also important customers. Competition in the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment is generally from other health care and pharmaceutical companies. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed and introduction of additional forms of already marketed established products by generic or branded competitors may increase competitive pressures. ________________________________________________________ * As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term Abbott refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. 1 Table of Contents Diagnostic Products These products include a broad line of diagnostic systems and tests manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These products are generally marketed and sold directly to blood banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories, clinics, physicians offices, retailers, government agencies, alternate care testing sites, and plasma protein therapeutic companies from Abbott-owned distribution centers, public warehouses or third party distributors. The principal products included in the Diagnostic Products segment are: core laboratory and transfusion medicine systems in the areas of immunoassay, clinical chemistry, hematology, and transfusion serology testing, including the Alinity family of instruments along with the ARCHITECT and Cell-Dyn systems. These systems are used for screening and/or diagnosis for cancer, cardiac and metabolic disorders, drugs of abuse, thyroid function, fertility, neurologic and general chemistries, infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV, therapeutic drug monitoring, and a suite of SARS-CoV-2 serology assays; molecular diagnostics polymerase chain reaction (PCR) instrument systems, including Alinity m and m2000 that automate the extraction, purification, and preparation of DNA and RNA from patient samples, and detect and measure infectious agents including HIV, hepatitis, HPV, sexually transmitted infections, SARS-CoV-2 and influenza A B, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV); and products for oncology with the Vysis FISH product line of genomic-based tests; point-of-care systems, including the i-STAT and i-STAT Alinity and cartridges for testing blood gas, chemistry, electrolytes, coagulation and immunoassay; rapid diagnostics lateral flow testing products in the area of infectious diseases such as SARS-CoV-2, including the BinaxNOW and Panbio rapid testing platforms, influenza, HIV, hepatitis, and tropical diseases such as malaria and dengue fever; molecular point-of-care testing for HIV, including the m-PIMA HIV-1/2 Viral Load Test, and for SARS-CoV-2 and influenza A B, RSV and strep A, including the ID NOW rapid molecular system; cardiometabolic testing, including Afinion and Cholestech LDX platforms and tests; and a toxicology business for drug and alcohol testing; and informatics and automation solutions for use in laboratories, including laboratory automation systems such as the GLP systems track , the RALS point-of-care solution, and AlinIQ , a suite of informatics tools and professional services. The Diagnostic Products segment s products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions, product performance, laboratory efficiency, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products. Nutritional Products These products include a broad line of pediatric and adult nutritional products manufactured, marketed, and sold worldwide. These products are generally marketed and sold directly to consumers and to institutions, wholesalers, retailers, health care facilities, government agencies, and third-party distributors from Abbott-owned distribution centers or third-party distributors. The principal products included in the Nutritional Products segment are: various forms of infant formula and follow-on formula, including Similac , Similac 360 Total Care , Similac Pro-Advance , Similac Advance , Similac 360 Total Care Sensitive, Similac Sensitive, Go Grow by Similac , Similac NeoSure , Similac Organic, Similac Special Care , Similac Total Comfort , Similac Soy Isomil , Similac Alimentum , EleCare , Gain , and Grow ; adult and other pediatric nutritional products, including Ensure , Ensure Plus , Ensure Enlive , Ensure (with NutriVigor ), Ensure Max Protein, Ensure High Protein, Glucerna , Glucerna Hunger Smart , ProSure , PediaSure , PediaSure SideKicks , PediaSure Peptide, Juven , Abound , Pedialyte and Zone Perfect ; and nutritional products used in enteral feeding in health care institutions, including Jevity , Glucerna 1.2 Cal, Glucerna 1.5 Cal, Osmolite , Oxepa , Freego (Enteral Pump) and Freego sets, Nepro , and Vital . Primary marketing efforts for nutritional products are directed toward consumers or to securing the recommendation of Abbott s brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In addition, nutritional products are also promoted directly to the public by consumer marketing efforts in markets where permitted. 2 Table of Contents Competition for nutritional products in the segment is generally from other diversified consumer and health care manufacturers. Competitive factors include consumer advertising, formulation, packaging, scientific innovation, price, retail distribution, and availability of product forms. A significant aspect of competition is the search for ingredient innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors, changes in medical practices and procedures, and regulatory changes can result in product obsolescence. In addition, private label and local manufacturers products may increase competitive pressure. Medical Devices These products include a broad line of rhythm management, electrophysiology, heart failure, vascular and structural heart devices for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases, and diabetes care products for people with diabetes, as well as neuromodulation devices for the management of chronic pain and movement disorders. Medical devices are manufactured, marketed and sold worldwide. In the United States, depending upon the product, medical devices are generally marketed and sold directly to wholesalers, hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, physicians offices, and distributors from Abbott-owned distribution centers, public warehouses or third party distributors. Outside the United States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. The principal products included in the Medical Devices segment are: rhythm management products, including Assurity MRI and Endurity MRI pacemaker systems, and Aveir single-chamber (VR and AR) and Aveir dual chamber (DR) leadless pacemaker systems; Ellipse , Fortify Assura , and Gallant implantable cardioverter defibrillators and Gallant and Quadra Assura MP implantable cardioverter defibrillator with cardiac resynchronization therapy and MultiPoint Pacing technology; and Confirm Rx , Jot Dx and Assert-IQ implantable cardiac monitors; electrophysiology products, including the TactiFlex and TactiCath families of ablation catheters, and FlexAbility irrigated ablation catheters; EnSite family of cardiac mapping systems; Agilis NxT and Swartz introducer catheters; the Advisor HD Grid mapping catheter; and ViewFlex family of intracardiac echocardiography catheters; heart failure related products, including the HeartMate left ventricular assist device family; the CardioMEMS HF System pulmonary artery sensor, a heart failure monitoring system; the CentriMag System, an acute mechanical circulatory support system; and patient self-testing products and services; vascular products, including the XIENCE family of drug-eluting coronary stent systems developed on the Multi-Link Vision platform; StarClose SE , Perclose ProGlide and Perclose ProStyle vessel closure devices, TREK coronary balloon dilatation products, Hi-Torque Balance Middleweight Universal II guidewires, Supera Peripheral Stent System, a peripheral vascular stent system; Acculink /Accunet and Xact /Emboshield NAV6 , carotid stent systems; the OPTIS integrated systems with Ultreon 1.0 and 2.0 Software, compatible with the Dragonfly OPTIS and OpStar imaging catheters and PressureWire fractional flow reserve measurement systems; the JETi peripheral thrombectomy systems for clot removal; and Diamondback 360 coronary and peripheral orbital atherectomy systems; structural heart products, including MitraClip , a mitral valve transcatheter edge-to-edge repair system; TriClip , a tricuspid valve transcatheter edge-to-edge repair system; Epic , a surgical family of aortic valve and mitral valve replacement devices; Portico and Navitor transcatheter aortic heart valves; Regent and Masters Series mechanical heart valves; Amplatzer PFO occluders; Amplatzer Amulet occluder devices; and the Tendyne transcatheter mitral valve replacement system; continuous glucose and blood glucose monitoring systems under the FreeStyle brand such as the FreeStyle Libre system, including sensors, data management decision software, test strips, and accessories for people with diabetes; and neuromodulation products, including spinal cord stimulators Proclaim Plus and Proclaim XR recharge-free implantable pulse generators (IPG) and rechargeable Eterna IPG, each with BurstDR stimulation, and Proclaim DRG IPG, a neurostimulation device designed for dorsal root ganglion therapy, for the treatment of chronic pain disorders; and the Infinity Deep Brain Stimulation System with directional lead technology for the treatment of movement disorders. 3 Table of Contents These products are subject to competition in technological innovation, price, convenience of use, service, product performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment can be subject to rapid product obsolescence or regulatory changes. Although Abbott has benefited from technological advantages of certain of its current products, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products. INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT S BUSINESS IN GENERAL Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to Abbott s operations from numerous suppliers in the United States and around the world. After several years of challenges to the global supply chain caused in part by the COVID-19 pandemic and macroeconomic conditions such as inflationary pressures and labor shortages, Abbott's global supply chain has improved. There have been no recent significant availability problems or supply shortages for raw materials or supplies. A more detailed discussion on the global supply chain challenges and its resulting impact on Abbott s business is contained in