Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 38 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 39 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 39 Item 9B. Other Information 40 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 41 Item 11. Executive Compensation 41 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 42 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 42 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 43 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 44 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 46 Signatures 47 Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Part I 1 Part I Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as may, will, should, likely, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, positioned, outlook and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below under the section entitled Risk Factors. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them. Available Information Our website address is www.accenture.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for company information. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website (http://investor.accenture.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.accenture.com. We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Any materials we file with the SEC are available on such Internet site. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms Accenture, we, the Company, our and us to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 2 Item 1. Business Overview Accenture is a leading global professional services company, providing a broad range of services in strategy and consulting, interactive, technology and operations, with digital capabilities across all of these services. We combine unmatched experience and specialized capabilities across more than 40 industries, which are organized across our five industry groups, together with our culture of innovation. Our approximately 506,000 people serve clients in more than 120 countries to help clients build their digital core, transform their operations, and accelerate revenue growth creating tangible value across their enterprises at speed and scale. Accenture serves clients in three geographic markets: North America, Europe and Growth Markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East). Our geographic markets bring together capabilities from across the organization in Strategy Consulting, Interactive, Technology and Operations infusing digital skills and industry and functional expertise throughout to deliver value to our clients. Our revenues for fiscal 2020 were $44.3 billion, and we employed approximately 506,000 people as of August 31, 2020. Our revenues are derived primarily from Forbes Global 2000 companies, governments and government agencies. We have long-term relationships and have partnered with 97 of our top 100 clients in fiscal 2020 for 10 years. Effective March 1, 2020, we began managing our business under a new growth model through the three geographic markets, which also became our reportable segments in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. The change was designed to help us better serve our clients and continue to scale our business. Prior to this change, our reportable segments were our five operating groups, Communications, Media Technology, Financial Services, Health Public Service, Products and Resources, which we now refer to as our industry groups. Under the new growth model, we continue to go to market primarily by industry, leveraging our deep expertise across more than 40 industries. The new model simplified our organizational structure and increased our agility to form multi-service teams to meet client needs rapidly and at scale. It is also accelerating innovation by enabling our teams to move seamlessly between global and local, leveraging our network of more than 100 innovation hubs, our technology expertise and ecosystem relationships, and our global delivery capabilities to drive value for clients. During fiscal 2020, we continued to make significant investments in strategic acquisitions, in research and development in our assets, platforms and solutions, and in attracting and developing talent to further enhance our differentiation and competitiveness in the marketplace. At year-end, we had more than 7,900 patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Our disciplined acquisition strategy, which is an engine to fuel organic growth, is focused on scaling our business in high-growth areas; adding skills and capabilities in new areas; and deepening our industry and functional expertise. In fiscal 2020, we invested more than $1.5 billion across 34 strategic acquisitions. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 3 Our Strategy Our growth strategy begins with a focus on what our clients need. Regardless of industry, our clients must transform every aspect of their business to meet the needs of today s digital world. We are helping our clients use technology to build their digital core to drive enterprise-wide transformation such as moving them to the cloud and embedding security across the enterprise, by transforming their operations such as replatforming their ERP systems and through our Operations services and Industry X, and by accelerating their growth such as through creating omni-channel experiences through Interactive. We are uniquely able to deliver this transformation because of our ability to bring applied innovation and deliver 360-degree value for our clients. We define 360-degree value as delivering the financial business case and unique value a client may be seeking, and striving where possible to partner with our clients to achieve greater progress on inclusion and diversity with our diverse teams, reskill our clients employees, help our clients achieve their sustainability goals, and create meaningful experiences, both with Accenture and for the customers and employees of our clients. We are able to leverage our scale and global footprint, and seamlessly move between global and local, embedding responsible business by design in everything we do. Our strong ecosystem partnerships, together with our assets and platforms, including MyWizard, MyNav and Synops, position Accenture to consistently deliver tangible value for our clients. Key enablers of our growth strategy include: Our People As a talent- and innovation-led organization, across our entire business our people have highly specialized skills that drive our differentiation and competitiveness. We are deeply committed to investing in our people to ensure they have opportunities to learn and grow in their careers through their work experience and continued development, training and reskilling, and we have an unwavering commitment to inclusion and diversity; Our Commitment We are a purpose driven company, committed to delivering on the promise of technology and human ingenuity. Our culture is underpinned by our core values and Code of Business Ethics which are key drivers of the trust our clients and partners place in us to deliver tangible value and outcomes for them; and Our Foundation The new growth model and our enduring shareholder value creation model are key elements of the foundation that enable us to execute on our growth strategy. Geographic Markets The geographic markets, North America, Europe and Growth Markets, assemble integrated, multi-service client teams, which typically consist of industry experts, capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge and experience. The geographic markets have primary responsibility for building and sustaining long-term client relationships; bringing together our expertise and collaborating with the other parts of our business to sell and deliver the full range of our services and capabilities; ensuring client satisfaction; and achieving revenue and profitability objectives. While we serve clients in locally relevant ways, our global footprint and scale in every major country give us the ability to leverage our experience and talent from around the world to accelerate outcomes for our clients. Our three geographic markets are Accenture s reporting segments. The percent of our revenues represented by each market is shown at right. Percent of Fiscal 2020 Revenue Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 4 Services Strategy Consulting Strategy Consulting works with C-suite executives and boards of the world s leading organizations, helping them accelerate their digital transformation to enhance competitiveness, grow profitability and deliver sustainable stakeholder value. We use our deep industry and functional expertise underpinned by data, analytics, artificial intelligence, and innovation to help clients solve a diverse set of business challenges, including identifying and developing new markets, products and services; optimizing cost structures; maximizing human performance; harnessing data to improve decision-making; mitigating risk and enhancing security; implementing modern change management programs; shaping and delivering value from large-scale cloud migrations; building more resilient supply chains; and reinventing manufacturing and operations with smart, connected products and platforms. Interactive Interactive combines creativity and technology in service of meaningful experiences that drive sustainable growth and value for our clients. Our capabilities span ideation to execution: growth, product and culture design; technology and experience platforms; creative, media and marketing strategy; and campaign, content and channel orchestration. With strong client relationships and deep industry expertise, we are uniquely positioned to design, build, communicate and run experiences, reimagining the entire journey for customers, employees, patients and citizens alike. We embed this focus on experience across our services. Technology Technology provides innovative and comprehensive services and solutions that span cloud; systems integration and application management; security; intelligent platform services; infrastructure services; software engineering services; data and artificial intelligence; and global delivery through our Advanced Technology Centers. We continuously innovate our services, capabilities and platforms through early adoption of new technologies such as blockchain, robotics, 5G, quantum computing and Edge computing. Accenture provides a powerful range of capabilities that addresses the challenges faced by organizations today, including how to manage change and develop new growth opportunities. Technology also includes the innovation and R D activities in our Labs and our investments in emerging technologies through Accenture Ventures. Our innovation hubs around the world help clients innovate at unmatched speed, scope and scale. We have strong relationships with the world s leading technology companies, as well as emerging start-ups, which enable us to enhance our service offerings, augment our capabilities and deliver distinctive business value to our clients. Our strong ecosystem relationships provide a significant competitive advantage, and we are a key partner of a broad range of technology providers, including Adobe, Alibaba, Amazon Web Services, Blue Yonder, Cisco, Dell, Google, HPE, IBM RedHat, Microsoft, Oracle, Pegasystems, Salesforce, SAP, ServiceNow, VMWare, Workday and many others. We push the boundaries of what technology can enable and help clients get the most value and best capabilities out of platforms. Operations We operate business processes on behalf of clients for specific enterprise functions, including finance and accounting, sourcing and procurement, supply chain, marketing and sales, as well as industry-specific services, such as platform trust and safety, banking, insurance and health services. We help organizations to reinvent themselves through intelligent operations, enabled by SynOps, our human-machine platform, powered by data and analytics, artificial intelligence, digital technology, and exceptional people to provide tangible business outcomes at speed and scale, including improved productivity and customer experiences as well as sustained long-term growth. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 5 Industry Groups One of our competitive advantages is the depth and breadth of our industry expertise. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and new and emerging technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client. It also allows us to bring cross-industry insights to our clients to accelerate value creation. Our capabilities across more than 40 industries are organized in the following five industry groups. Communications, Media Technology Communications Media High Tech Software Platforms Clients Served Wireline, wireless, broadcast, entertainment, print, publishing, cable and satellite communications service providers Enterprise technology, network equipment, semiconductor, consumer technology, aerospace defense, and medical equipment companies Cloud-based enterprise and consumer software companies; and social, e-commerce, retail, content, advertising and gaming platform companies Percent of Group s FY20 Revenue 45% 21% 34% Financial Services Banking Capital Markets Insurance Clients Served Retail and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, payment providers, investment banks, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, depositories, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations, and other diversified financial enterprises Property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers Percent of Group s FY20 Revenue 69% 31% Health Public Service Health Public Service Clients Served Healthcare providers, such as hospitals, public health systems, policy-making authorities, health insurers (payers), and industry organizations and associations Defense departments and military forces; public safety authorities; justice departments; human and social services agencies; educational institutions; non-profit organizations; cities; and postal, customs, revenue and tax agencies Percent of Group s FY20 Revenue 36% 64% Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government is delivered through Accenture Federal Services, a U.S. company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture LLP, and represented approximately 35% of our Health Public Service industry group s revenues and 14% of our North America revenues in fiscal 2020. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 6 Products Consumer Goods, Retail Travel Services Industrial Life Sciences Clients Served Food and beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies; supermarkets, hardline retailers, mass-merchandise discounters, department stores and specialty retailers; airlines; and hospitality and travel services companies Industrial electrical equipment manufacturers and suppliers; and construction, heavy equipment, consumer durables, engineering services, real estate business services, freight logistics, and automotive and public transportation companies Biopharmaceutical, medical technology, and biotechnology companies and distributors Percent of Group s FY20 Revenue 52% 25% 24% Amounts do not total due to rounding. Resources Chemicals Natural Resources Energy Utilities Clients Served Petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals companies, as well as the metals, mining, forest products and building materials industries Companies in the oil and gas industry, including upstream, midstream, downstream, oilfield services, clean energy and energy trading companies Electric, gas and water utilities; new energy providers Percent of Group s FY20 Revenue 30% 28% 42% Global Delivery Capability A key differentiator is our global delivery capability, powered by the world s largest network of Advanced Technology and Intelligent Operations Centers. This allows us to bring the right talent at the right time to our clients from anywhere in the world both in physical and virtual working environments a capability that is particularly crucial as business needs and conditions change rapidly. Our global approach provides scalable innovation; standardized processes, methods and tools; automation and artificial intelligence; industry expertise and specialized capabilities; cost advantages; foreign language fluency; proximity to clients; and time zone advantages to deliver high-quality solutions. Emphasizing quality, productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global delivery model supports all parts of our business to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions. Innovation and Intellectual Property We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas and technologies and see innovation as a source of competitive advantage. We use our investment in research and development on which we spent $871 million, $800 million, and $791 million in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 respectively to help clients address new realities in the marketplace and to face the future with confidence. Our innovation experts work with clients across the world to imagine their future, build and co-create innovative business strategies and technology solutions, and then scale those solutions to sustain innovation. We harness our unique intellectual property to deliver these innovation services. We leverage patent, trade secret and copyright laws as well as contractual arrangements and confidentiality procedures to protect the intellectual property in our innovative services and solutions. These include our proprietary platforms, software, reusable knowledge capital, and other innovations. We also have policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as our clients, partners, vendors and others. As of August 31, 2020, we had a portfolio of more than 7,900 patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 7 Underpinning our innovation services and our global strength in intellectual property is the Accenture Innovation Architecture, which brings together the diverse capabilities from Accenture Research, Accenture Ventures and Accenture Labs to our Studios, Innovation Centers and Delivery Centers. Our research and thought leadership teams help identify market, technology and industry trends. Accenture Ventures partners with and invests in growth-stage companies that create innovative enterprise technologies. Accenture Labs incubate and prototype new concepts through applied research and development projects. The new Technology Incubation Group incubates and applies emerging technology innovation to business architectures, including blockchain, extended reality and quantum. Our network of more than 100 innovation hubs uses those insights and technologies to help clients imagine, build and scale for the future. We believe this combination of talent, assets and capabilities makes Accenture one of the leading strategic innovation partners for our clients. To protect Accenture s brands, we rely on intellectual property laws and trademark registrations held around the world. Trademarks appearing in this report are the trademarks or registered trademarks of Accenture Global Services Limited, Accenture Global Solutions Limited, or third parties, as applicable. Competition Accenture operates in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global marketplace. We compete with a variety of organizations that offer services and solutions competitive with those we offer but we believe no other company offers the full range of services at scale that Accenture does, which uniquely positions us in a highly competitive market. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Our competitors include large multinational IT service providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers; off-shore IT service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India; accounting firms that provide consulting and other IT services and solutions; solution or service providers that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry or service area, including advertising agencies and technology start-ups; and in-house IT departments of large corporations that use their own resources rather than engage an outside firm. We believe Accenture competes successfully in the marketplace because: We are a trusted partner with long-term client relationships and a proven track record for delivering on large, complex programs that drive tangible value; We provide a broad range of services with our unique approach to bring integrated multi-service teams at scale and have a significant presence in every major geographic market, enabling us to leverage our global expertise in a local context and deliver tangible value; We have deep industry and cross-industry expertise , which enable us to accelerate value as clients transform their products, customer experiences and business operations; The breadth and scale of our technology capabilities, combined with our strong relationships with our technology ecosystem partners, enable us to help clients transform and re-platform in a sustainable way at speed; and Our goal is to recruit the most talented people in our markets, and we have an unwavering commitment to inclusion and diversity, which creates an environment that unleashes innovation, and a world-class learning organization that helps us continuously invest in the development of our people. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 8 Information About Our Executive Officers Our executive officers as of October 22, 2020 are as follows: Gianfranco Casati , 61, became our chief executive officer Growth Markets in January 2014. From September 2006 to January 2014, he served as our group chief executive Products. From April 2002 to September 2006, Mr. Casati was managing director of the Products Europe operating unit. He also served as our country managing director for Italy and as chairman of our geographic council in its IGEM (Italy, Greece, emerging markets) region, supervising our offices in Italy, Greece and several Eastern European countries. Mr. Casati has been with Accenture for 36 years. Richard P. Clark , 59, became our chief accounting officer in September 2013 and has served as our corporate controller since September 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Clark served as our senior managing director of investor relations from September 2006 to September 2010. Previously he served as our finance director Communications, Media Technology from July 2001 to September 2006 and as our finance director Resources from 1998 to July 2001. Mr. Clark has been with Accenture for 37 years. Jo Deblaere , 58, became our chief operating officer in September 2009. Mr. Deblaere also served as our chief executive Europe from January 2014 to February 2020. From September 2006 to September 2009, Mr. Deblaere served as our chief operating officer Outsourcing. Prior to that, from September 2005 to September 2006, he led our global network of business process outsourcing delivery centers. From September 2000 to September 2005, he had overall responsibility for work with public-sector clients in Western Europe. Mr. Deblaere has been with Accenture for 35 years. Jimmy Etheredge , 57, became our chief executive officer North America in September 2019. From December 2016 to September 2019, Mr. Etheredge served as senior managing director US Southeast, responsible for our business in 10 states, including the key markets of Atlanta, Charlotte and Washington, D.C. Previously, he served as senior managing director Products in North America from 2011 until December 2016. Mr. Etheredge has been with Accenture for 35 years. KC McClure , 55, became our chief financial officer in January 2019. From June 2018 to January 2019, she served as managing director Finance Operations, where she led our finance operations across the entirety of our businesses. From December 2016 to May 2018, she served as our finance director Communications, Media Technology. Prior to assuming that role, she served as our head of investor relations from September 2010 to November 2016, and from March 2002 to August 2010, she served as our finance director Health Public Service. Ms. McClure has been with Accenture for 32 years. Jean-Marc Ollagnier , 58, became our chief executive officer Europe in March 2020. From March 2011 to March 2020, Mr. Ollagnier served as our group chief executive Resources. From September 2006 to March 2011, Mr. Ollagnier led Resources in Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Previously, he served as our global managing director Financial Services Solutions group and as our geographic unit managing director Gallia. Mr. Ollagnier has been with Accenture for 34 years. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2020 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 9 David P. Rowland , 59, became executive chairman of the Board of Directors in September 2019. From January 2019 to September 2019, he served as our interim chief executive officer. Mr. Rowland was our chief financial officer from July 2013 to January 2019. From October 2006 to July 2013, he was our senior vice president Finance. Previously, Mr. Rowland was our managing director Finance Operations from July 2001 to October 2006. Prior to assuming that role, he served as our finance director Communications, Media Technology and as our finance director Products. Mr. Rowland has been with Accenture for 37 years and has served as a director since January 2019. Prior to its merger with and into Accenture plc in March 2018, Mr. Rowland also served on the board of Accenture Holdings plc. Ellyn J. Shook , 57, became our chief leadership officer in December 2015 and has also served as our chief human resources officer since March 2014. From 2012 to March 2014, Ms. Shook was our senior managing director Human Resources and head of our Human Resources Centers of Expertise. From 2004 to 2011, she served as the global human resources lead for career management, performance management, total rewards, employee engagement and mergers and acquisitions. Ms. Shook has been with Accenture for 32 years. Julie Sweet , 53, became our chief executive officer in September 2019. From June 2015 to September 2019, she served as our chief executive officer North America. From March 2010 to June 2015, she served as our general counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer. Prior to joining Accenture in 2010, Ms. Sweet was a partner for 10 years in the law firm Cravath, Swaine Moore LLP, which she joined as an associate in 1992. Ms. Sweet has been with Accenture for 10 years and has served as a director since September 2019. Joel Unruch , 42, became our general counsel in September 2019 and has served as our corporate secretary since June 2015. Mr. Unruch also served as our chief compliance officer from September 2019 to January 2020. Mr. Unruch joined Accenture in 2011 as our assistant general counsel and assistant secretary and also oversaw ventures acquisitions and allia