Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B. Other Information 45 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 45 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 46 Item 11. Executive Compensation 46 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 47 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 47 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 48 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 49 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 51 Signatures 52 Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Part I 1 Part I Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections. Words such as may, will, should, likely, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, positioned, outlook and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below under the section entitled Risk Factors. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them, notwithstanding any historical practice of doing so. Forward-looking and other statements in this document may also address our corporate responsibility progress, plans, and goals (including environmental matters), and the inclusion of such statements is not an indication that these contents are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in the Company s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Available Information Our website address is www.accenture.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution for company information. We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website (http://investor.accenture.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including our proxy statements and reports filed by officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as our Code of Business Ethics. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted on and accessible at http://investor.accenture.com and on the Accenture 360 Value Reporting Experience (http://www.accenture.com/reportingexperience). We do not intend for information contained in our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Any materials we file with the SEC are available on such Internet site. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use the terms Accenture, we, the Company, our and us to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries. All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 2 Item 1. Business Overview Accenture is a leading global professional services company that helps the world s leading businesses, governments and other organizations build their digital core, optimize their operations, accelerate revenue growth and enhance citizen services creating tangible value at speed and scale. We are a talent and innovation led company with over 721,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Technology is at the core of change today, and we are one of the world s leaders in helping drive that change, with strong ecosystem relationships. We combine our strength in technology with unmatched industry experience, functional expertise and global delivery capability. We are uniquely able to deliver tangible outcomes because of our broad range of services, solutions and assets across Strategy Consulting, Technology, Operations, Industry X and Song (formerly Interactive). These capabilities, together with our culture of shared success and commitment to creating 360 value, enable us to help our clients succeed and build trusted, lasting relationships. We measure our success by the 360 value we create for our clients, each other, our shareholders, partners and communities. Fiscal 2022 Highlights We serve clients in three geographic markets: North America, Europe and Growth Markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East). Our geographic markets bring together all of our capabilities across our services, industries and functions to deliver value to our clients. We manage our business through the three geographic markets and go to market by industry, leveraging our deep expertise across our five industry groups Communications, Media Technology, Financial Services, Health Public Service, Products and Resources. Our integrated service teams meet client needs rapidly and at scale, leveraging our network of more than 100 innovation hubs, our technology expertise and ecosystem relationships, and our global delivery capabilities. $61.6B in revenues Our revenues are derived primarily from Forbes Global 2000 companies, governments and government agencies. We employed more than 721,000 people as of August 31, 2022. We have long-term relationships and have partnered with 99 of our top 100 clients for more than 10 years. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 3 Fiscal 2022 Investments $3.4B $1.1B $1.1B 8,300+ across 38 strategic acquisitions in research and development in learning and professional development patents and pending patent applications worldwide at year-end During fiscal 2022, we continued to make significant investments in strategic acquisitions, in research and development (R D) in our assets, platforms and industry and functional solutions, and in attracting, retaining and developing people. These investments help us to further enhance our differentiation and competitiveness in the marketplace. Our disciplined acquisition strategy, which is an engine to fuel organic growth, is focused on scaling our business in high-growth areas; adding skills and capabilities in new areas; and deepening our industry and functional expertise. In fiscal 2022, we invested $3.4 billion across 38 strategic acquisitions, $1.1 billion in R D, and $1.1 billion in learning and professional development. At year-end, we had more than 8,300 patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Our Strategy The core of our growth strategy is delivering 360 value to our clients, people, shareholders, partners and communities. Our strategy defines the areas in which we will drive growth, build differentiation via 360 value and enable our business to create that value every day. We define 360 value as delivering the financial business case and unique value a client may be seeking, and striving to partner with our clients to achieve greater progress on inclusion and diversity, reskill and upskill our clients employees, help our clients achieve their sustainability goals, and create meaningful experiences, both with Accenture and for the customers and employees of our clients. We bring industry specific solutions and services as well as cross industry expertise and leverage our scale and global footprint, innovation capabilities, and strong ecosystem partnerships together with our assets and platforms including MyWizard, MyNav and SynOps to deliver tangible value for our clients. We help our clients use technology to drive enterprise-wide transformation, which includes: building their digital core such as moving them to the cloud, leveraging data and artificial intelligence, and embedding security across the enterprise; optimizing their operations such as helping our clients digitize faster, access digital talent and reduce costs as well as through digitizing engineering and manufacturing; and accelerating their revenue growth such as through using technology and creativity to create personalized connections, experiences and targeted sales at scale, leveraging data and AI, transforming content supply chains and marketing and commerce models and helping create new digital services and business models. Our managed services have become increasingly strategic as companies seek to move faster and leverage our digital platforms and talent as well as reduce costs. We believe our strategy to deliver 360 value makes us an attractive destination for top talent, a trusted partner to our clients and ecosystem, and a respected member of our communities. We believe that the companies that will lead in the next decade need to harness the five key forces of change we have identified total enterprise reinvention, talent, sustainability, the metaverse continuum and the ongoing technology revolution. We are investing and co-creating with clients and partners to lead in helping our clients thrive across these forces, which we expect to have different time horizons. Today, the strong demand we continue to see across our geographic markets, services and industries is being primarily driven by the first two, as companies are in the early stages of harnessing these forces. We have summarized below each of the five key forces as we currently see them evolving. Total enterprise reinvention, as we believe every part of every business must be transformed by technology, data and AI, with new ways of working and engaging with customers, employees and partners, and new business models, products and services. We are helping clients build their digital core, optimize operations and accelerate growth. Talent, as companies must be able to access great talent, be talent creators not just consumers, and unlock the potential of their people from the ways they organize and work, to their culture, to their employee value proposition. Sustainability, as consumers, employees, business partners, regulators and investors are demanding companies move from commitment to action we believe every business must be a sustainable business. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 4 The metaverse continuum, moving seamlessly between virtual and physical, which we believe will provide even greater possibilities in the next waves of digital transformation. The ongoing technology revolution, from the rich innovation to come in the powerful technologies being used to transform companies today, to the new fields of the future, from quantum computing, to science and space technology. We believe that helping clients navigate these five key forces of change will, in turn, drive our growth. Key enablers of our growth strategy include: Our People As a talent- and innovation-led organization, across our entire business our people have highly specialized skills that drive our differentiation and competitiveness. We care deeply for our people, and are committed to a culture of shared success, to investing in our people to provide them with boundaryless opportunities to learn and grow in their careers through their work experience and continued development, training and reskilling, and to helping them achieve their aspirations both professionally and personally. We have an unwavering commitment to inclusion and diversity; Our Commitment We are a purpose-driven company, committed to delivering on the promise of technology and human ingenuity by continuously innovating and developing leading-edge ideas and leveraging emerging technologies in anticipation of our clients needs. Our culture is underpinned by our core values and Code of Business Ethics, which are key drivers of the trust our clients and partners place in us; and Our Foundation Our Leadership Essentials set the standard for what we expect from our people. Our growth model, which leverages our global sales, client experience and innovation, while organizing around geographic markets and industry groups within those markets, enables us to be close to our clients, people and partners to scale efficiently. Our enduring shareholder value proposition is also a key element of the foundation that enables us to execute on our growth strategy through the financial value it creates. Geographic Markets Our geographic markets, North America, Europe and Growth Markets, bring together integrated service teams, which typically consist of industry and functional experts, technology and capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge and experience, to meet client needs. The geographic markets have primary responsibility for building and sustaining long-term client relationships; bringing together our expertise from around the globe and collaborating across our business to sell and deliver our full range of services and capabilities; ensuring client satisfaction; and achieving revenue and profitability objectives. While we serve clients in locally relevant ways, our global footprint and scale in every major country give us the ability to leverage our experience and people from around the world to accelerate outcomes for our clients. Our three geographic markets are our reporting segments. The percent of our revenues represented by each market is shown at right. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 5 Services We bring together skills, capabilities, industry experience and functional expertise to help our clients achieve tangible outcomes and create 360 value. Strategy Consulting We work with C-suite executives, leaders and boards of the world s leading organizations, helping them formulate their strategy, shape and accelerate their total enterprise reinvention to drive growth, enhance competitiveness, drive operational improvements, reduce costs and deliver sustainable 360 value to their stakeholders. We use our deep industry and functional expertise underpinned by technology, data, analytics, artificial intelligence, innovation, and our change management and talent capabilities, to help reinvent every part of the enterprise. Technology We provide innovative and comprehensive services and solutions that span cloud; systems integration and application management; security; intelligent platform services; infrastructure services; software engineering services; data and artificial intelligence; and global delivery through our Advanced Technology Centers. We continuously innovate our services, capabilities and platforms through early adoption of new technologies such as blockchain, robotics, 5G, edge computing, metaverse and quantum computing. We provide a range of capabilities that addresses the challenges faced by organizations today, including how to manage change and develop new growth opportunities. We are continuously innovating and investing in R D for both existing and new forms of technology. Our focus in our Labs includes furthering innovation beyond traditional boundaries, such as science and space technologies. Our innovation hubs around the world help clients innovate at unmatched speed, scope and scale. We have strong relationships with the world s leading technology companies, as well as emerging start-ups, which enable us to enhance our service offerings, augment our capabilities and deliver distinctive business value to our clients. Our strong ecosystem relationships provide a significant competitive advantage, and we are a key partner of a broad range of technology providers, including Adobe, Alibaba, Amazon Web Services, Blue Yonder, Cisco, Dell, Google, HPE, IBM RedHat, Microsoft, Oracle, Pegasystems, Salesforce, SAP, ServiceNow, VMWare, Workday and many others. In addition to our mature partners, we invest in emerging technologies through Accenture Ventures. We push the boundaries of what technology can enable and help clients get the most value and best capabilities out of platforms. Operations We operate business processes on behalf of clients for specific enterprise functions, including finance and accounting, sourcing and procurement, supply chain, marketing and sales, as well as industry-specific services, such as platform trust and safety, banking, insurance and health services. We help organizations to reinvent themselves through intelligent operations, enabled by SynOps, our data-powered, cloud enabled platform that combines our human + machine capabilities. It represents our collection of specialized talent, data and insights, and digital assets that are enabled to deliver business outcomes at speed and scale. Industry X We combine our digital capabilities with deep engineering and manufacturing expertise. By using the combined power of digital and data we help our clients to reimagine the products they make and how they make them. We collaborate closely with our platform and software partners to help our clients achieve compressed transformations by redefining how their products are designed and engineered, sourced and supplied, manufactured, and serviced, returned and renewed. Through the use of data and transformative technologies such as digital twins, AI, IoT, cloud/Edge, 5G, advanced robotics, and metaverse we help our clients embed greater resilience, productivity and sustainability into their core operations. And in doing so, we help them create new, hyper-personalized experiences and intelligent products and services. Song We strive to accelerate growth and value for our clients across industries through sustained customer relevance with emerging channels, technologies and models tied to the ever-changing needs and preferences of business-to-business and business-to-consumer customers. Our capabilities span ideation to execution: growth, product and experience design; technology and experience platforms; creative, media and marketing strategy; and campaign, content and channel orchestration. With strong client relationships and deep industry expertise, we help our clients operate at speed through the potential of imagination, technology and intelligence. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 6 Industry Groups We believe the depth and breadth of our industry expertise is a key competitive advantage which allows us to bring client specific industry solutions to our clients to accelerate value creation. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and new and emerging technologies. The breadth of our industry expertise enables us to create solutions that are informed by cross industry experience. We go to market through the following five industry groups within our geographic markets. Communications, Media Technology FY22 Revenues of $12.2B Percent of Group s FY22 Revenue 44% 17% 40% Communications Media High Tech Software Platforms Wireline, wireless, broadcast, entertainment, gaming, print, publishing, infrastructure providers and cable and satellite communications service providers Enterprise and consumer technology, network and equipment manufacturers, semiconductor foundries, electronic manufacturing, engineering design automation and medical equipment companies Cloud-based enterprise and consumer software companies; and social, commerce, content, media, advertising and gaming platform companies Amounts do not total due to rounding. Financial Services FY22 Revenues of $11.8B Percent of Group s FY22 Revenue 68% 32% Banking Capital Markets Insurance Retail and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, payment providers, corporate and investment banks, private equity firms, market infrastructure providers, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, depositories, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations, and other diversified financial enterprises Property and casualty, life and annuities and group benefits insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers Health Public Service FY22 Revenues of $11.2B Percent of Group s FY22 Revenue 34% 66% Health Public Service Healthcare providers, such as hospitals, public health systems, policy-making authorities, health insurers (payers), and industry organizations and associations Defense departments and military forces; public safety authorities; justice departments; human and social services agencies; educational institutions; non-profit organizations; cities; and postal, customs, revenue and tax agencies Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government is delivered through Accenture Federal Services, a U.S. company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture LLP, and represented approximately 35% of our Health Public Service industry group s revenues and 13% of our North America revenues in fiscal 2022. Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 7 Products FY22 Revenues of $18.3B Percent of Group s FY22 Revenue 50% 30% 20% Consumer Goods, Retail Travel Services Industrial Life Sciences Food and beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies; supermarkets, hardline retailers, mass-merchandise discounters, department stores and specialty retailers; aviation; and hospitality and travel services companies Industrial electrical equipment manufacturers and industrial suppliers; and construction, heavy equipment, consumer durables, engineering services, real estate, freight logistics, aerospace defense (1) and automotive and public transportation companies Biopharmaceutical, medical technology, and biotechnology companies and distributors (1) Effective June 1, 2022, we revised the reporting of our industry groups for the movement of Aerospace Defense from Communications, Media Technology to Products. Resources FY22 Revenues of $8.1B Percent of Group s FY22 Revenue 31% 24% 45% Chemicals Natural Resources Energy Utilities Petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals companies, as well as the metals, mining, forest products and building materials industries Companies in the oil and gas industry, including upstream, midstream, downstream, oilfield services, clean energy and energy trading companies Power generators and developers, electric and gas transmission and distribution operators, energy and energy service retailers; water, waste and recycling service providers Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 8 People Overview We are a talent- and innovation-led organization with over 721,000 people as of August 31, 2022, whose skills and specialization are a significant source of competitive differentiation. We serve clients at any given time in more than 120 countries, with offices and operations in 49 countries. The majority of our people are in India, the Philippines and the U.S. We have a culture of shared success, which is defined as success for our clients, our people, our shareholders, our partners and our communities. That culture is built upon four tangible building blocks our beliefs, our behaviors, the way we develop and reward our people and the way we do business. Our Beliefs and Behaviors Our leadership essentials set the standard for what we expect of all our people: always do the right thing, in every decision and action; lead with excellence, confidence and humility, as demonstrated by being a learner, building great teams and being naturally collaborative; exemplify client-centricity and a commitment to client value creation; act as a true partner, to each other, our clients, our ecosystem and our communities committed to shared success; care deeply for all our people to help them achieve their aspirations professionally and personally; live our unwavering commitment to inclusion, diversity and equality, as demonstrated by personal impact and overall results; have the courage to change and the ability to bring our people along the journey; and actively innovate looking across Accenture at what we are doing for clients and externally to partners, competitors, start-ups, clients, academia and analysts to learn, respectfully challenge our assumptions and apply the innovation, and cultivate and reward our people for doing the same. Listening to the voices of our people provides the input to ensure that they have the tools and resources to do their jobs and the right learning opportunities, and that they experience a positive, respectful and inclusive work environment. We do this on an ongoing basis across various channels, including surveys and forums. One of our surveys indicates that 83% of global respondents feel comfortable being themselves at work. Our commitment to inclusion and diversity unleashes innovation and we believe creates an environment where all of our people have an opportunity to feel they belong, advance and thrive. In connection with our priorities around inclusion and diversity, we set goals, share them publicly, collect data to continuously improve and hold our leaders accountable. We are now 47% women, demonstrating continued progress on our gender parity goal by 2025. And, we are currently 28% women managing directors, which is tracking well against our goal of 30% by 2025. We are also making progress against our total workforce 2025 race and ethnicity goals in the U.S., the U.K, and South Africa, which we announced in 2020, as follows: In the U.S., we achieved our 2025 goal with African American and Black colleagues representing 12% of our workforce. Additionally, Hispanic American and Latinx colleagues represent 11% of our workforce, which is tracking well against our goal of 13%. In the U.K., we are making progress with Black colleagues representing 4.5% of our workforce compared with our 2025 goal of 7%. In South Africa, we are demonstrating continued progress with African Black colleagues representing 48% of our workforce compared with our 2025 goal of 68%. Coloured colleagues represent 7% of our workforce compared with our 2025 goal of 10%. Through the entire talent lifecycle, we are committed to being inclusive and diverse from discovering, to hiring, to developing and advancing our people. This commitment extends to equal pay. Pay equity at Accenture means that our people receive pay that is fair and consistent when considering similarity of work, location and tenure at career level. We conduct an annual pay equity review, and our last review was conducted in November 2021. As of November 5, 2021, we had dollar-for-dollar, 100% pay equity for women compared to men in every country where we operate (certain subsidiaries, including recent acquisitions, and countries with de minimis headcount were excluded from the analysis). By race and ethnicity, we likewise had dollar-for-dollar, 100% pay equity in countries where we collect this data (the U.S., the U.K. and South Africa). We are now 47% Women on track to achieve our goal of 50% by 2025 We are now 28% Women managing directors on track to achieve our goal of 30% by 2025 Table of Contents ACCENTURE 2022 FORM 10-K Item 1. Business 9 The Way We Develop and Reward Our People Our focus is to create talent and unlock the potential of our people, to create strong leaders, and to help them achieve their professional and personal aspirations, while continuously pivoting to meet new client demands. During fiscal 2022, we invested $1.1 billion in continuous learning and development so our people remain highly relevant. With our digital learning platform, we delivered over 40 million training hours, an increase of 27% compared with fiscal 2021, with an average of approximately 61 hours of training per person. We have skills data for our people, enabling us to flexibly respond to shifting client needs while also recommending skill-specific training based on an individual s interests. We are also focused on rigorous, job-specific training through key industry certifications and partnerships with leading universities around the globe. We also train our people in inclusion and diversity. We promoted approximately 157,000 people in fiscal 2022, demonstrating our continued commitment to creating vibrant careers and opportunities for our people. We balance our supply of skills with changes