Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 1C. Cybersecu rity 34 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6 [Reserved] 35 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B. Other Information 92 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 92 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 94 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 Signatures 97 Summary of Trademarks 99 2 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of applicable securities laws, including statements related to product development plans and new or enhanced offerings; our business, artificial intelligence and innovation momentum; our vision for the digital world, innovation and AI; our market opportunity and future growth, market and AI trends, strategic investments; revenue, operating margin, operating efficiencies and annualized recurring revenue; industry positioning; and customer acquisition and retention. In addition, when used in this report, the words will, expects, could, would, may, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, targets, estimates, looks for, looks to, continues and similar expressions, as well as statements regarding our focus for the future, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements we make in this report are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and involves risks, uncertainties and assumptions based on information available to us as of the date of this report. Such risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to matters beyond our control, could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report and elsewhere herein. The risks described herein and in Adobe s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed in fiscal 2024, should be carefully reviewed. Undue reliance should not be placed on the financial information set forth in this report, which reflects estimates based on information available at this time. Adobe assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update these forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Adobe is a global technology company with a mission to change the world through personalized digital experiences. For over four decades, Adobe s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses, enterprises, institutions, and governments engage and interact across all types of media. Our products, services and solutions are used around the world to imagine, create, manage, deliver, measure, optimize and engage with content across surfaces and fuel digital experiences. We have a diverse user base that includes consumers, communicators, creative professionals, developers, students, small and medium businesses and enterprises. We are also empowering creators by putting the power of artificial intelligence ( AI ) in their hands, and doing so in ways we believe are responsible. Our products and services help unleash creativity, accelerate document productivity and power businesses in a digital world. OFFERINGS We deliver a wide range of products, services and solutions to empower our customers and users to imagine and express ideas, create content and bring any digital experience to life. We focus our strategic investments in two areas of growth: Digital Media. We provide products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams, businesses and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere, and accelerate their productivity by transforming how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and content creation. Our Digital Media segment is centered around Adobe Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud, which include Adobe Express, Adobe Firefly, Photoshop, Illustrator, Lightroom, Premiere Pro, Acrobat, Acrobat Sign and many more products, offering a variety of tools for creative professionals (like photographers, video editors and game developers), communicators and other consumers. This is the core of what we have delivered to customers and users for decades, and we have continually evolved and expanded our Digital Media business model to provide our customers and users with a range of flexible solutions to help them reach their full creative potential. Digital Experience. We provide an integrated platform and set of products, services and solutions through Adobe Experience Cloud that enable businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences spanning from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite. The foundation of our offering is Adobe Experience Platform, which provides businesses and brands with an open and extensible system for customer experience management that transforms customer data into robust customer profiles that update in real time and uses insights to deliver personalized digital experiences across various channels. We offer a comprehensive suite of products, services and solutions to our customers and users in our Digital Media business and Digital Experience business. In addition, our Adobe GenStudio solution bundles together certain Digital Media 3 Table of Contents and Digital Experience products across Creative Cloud and Adobe Experience Cloud, allowing businesses to simplify their content supply chain process with generative AI capabilities and intelligent automation. We believe we are positioned to compete well in both the Digital Media and Digital Experience strategic areas where our mission to change the world through personalized digital experiences has never been more relevant as people seek new ways to create, collaborate and communicate and businesses continue to invest in digital transformation. SEGMENTS Our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media; Digital Experience; and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide Adobe s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities further described below, and our legacy products, services and solutions are contained within the third segment, Publishing and Advertising. MARKET OVERVIEW This overview provides an explanation of our markets and a discussion of strategic opportunities in fiscal 2024 and beyond for each of our segments. See the section titled Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this report for further segment information. Digital Media Opportunity In today s digital world, content and digital documents are fueling the global economy, and productivity, design and creativity have never been more relevant, providing a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. Everyone has a story to tell and needs products and services at their fingertips to tell those stories on an ever-increasing number of canvases. AI- and generative AI-powered technologies are increasing this opportunity by growing the demand for and production of content. This shift is changing how creative professionals work by accelerating their processes, increasing their productivity, and allowing them to explore and create in new fields, while empowering new creators by dramatically lowering barriers to creativity. At the same time, creativity is increasingly a team sport that is redefining productivity, making quick and easy collaboration even more critical to every company s success. Adobe is driving the innovation to shape these trends, democratize creativity, empower individuals to create wherever inspiration strikes and enable more effective collaboration between creators and stakeholders. The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud, a subscription service that allows subscribers to use our creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across various surfaces and platforms. We believe in creativity for all, and Creative Cloud addresses the needs of all content creators, from creative professionals, such as artists, designers, developers, students, and administrators, to knowledge workers, marketers, educators, enthusiasts, communicators, and consumers. Our customers rely on our products for content creation, photo editing, design, video and animation production, mobile application ( app ) and gaming development, and more. Customers can choose between the speed and ease of Adobe Express, our AI- and template-first, task-based web and mobile app, or the greater power and precision of our flagship Creative Cloud apps. We believe we have significant opportunities to grow our Digital Media business by advancing every creative category across all surfaces; expanding content-first, task-based creativity with Adobe Express; enabling seamless collaboration across all stakeholders; inspiring the creative community through sharing and monetization; and expanding the user base of our tools through the infusion of AI into our products, services and solutions to enable users of any skill level to easily and efficiently create content using tools like Adobe Express while also enhancing the power and AI capabilities of our flagship apps for creative professionals. Our Digital Media segment includes our Adobe Document Cloud business, a unified, cloud-based document services platform that integrates Adobe s pioneering PDF technology with our Acrobat and Acrobat Sign apps to deliver fully digital document workflows across all surfaces. We have the opportunity to continue to accelerate document productivity with Adobe Document Cloud and transform how people view, share, collaborate, and engage with documents. Trillions of PDF documents are created every year, reflecting the important role PDF plays globally. There are hundreds of millions of users who engage with PDF files on a daily basis in industries such as legal, financial services, and publishing, as well as a broad array of 4 Table of Contents communicators and Acrobat Reader customers who use the expanded capabilities provided by our Acrobat apps and the document services platform in Document Cloud. Strategy Our goal for our Digital Media business is to be a leading platform for creativity and digital document solutions, where we offer a range of products and services that allow anyone to design and deliver content seamlessly. We aim to achieve this goal by using data-driven customer engagement, driving product-led growth to allow our customers to create content and interact with documents in ways that are more frictionless, efficient and accessible, and meeting customer needs holistically to increase the value they derive from our services. We are redefining the creative process with Creative Cloud to unleash everyone s ability to imagine and express ideas. We are empowering anyone, including novice content creators, communicators and creative professionals, to create, edit, schedule and share content quickly and easily using Adobe Express, which employs capabilities from products like Photoshop, Premiere Pro and Acrobat to deliver the best of Adobe to customers at any level. We continue to integrate collaboration capabilities into our apps and workflows such as our native integration of Frame.io s review and approval capabilities into Premiere Pro, After Effects, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe InDesign. We are expanding the capabilities of Creative Cloud on the web with the launch of Adobe Firefly and Photoshop on the web. We are also infusing AI into our creative apps as a co-pilot to help our customers and users work faster and smarter, with new models for images and vector graphics, and AI-powered video features natively integrated into our flagship products like Photoshop, Illustrator, and Premiere Pro. We are building our own foundation models in areas where we have domain expertise and which we believe are most relevant to our customers. Developing our own foundation models enables us to design Firefly to be commercially safe and in line with our AI Ethics principles of accountability, responsibility and transparency. In fiscal 2023, we introduced other innovations, such as new Adobe Firefly models, Text-Based Editing in Premiere Pro, Generative Fill and Generative Expand in Photoshop, Generative Recolor in Illustrator and Text to Image and Text Effects in Adobe Express. We are pursuing new ways to inspire, empower and connect the creative community, such as through our Create Change series, our creative residency program, and supporting live, interactive tutorials with creators on Behance. We also offer a range of other creative products and services, including libraries of creative assets, such as Adobe Stock and Adobe Fonts, mobile-first apps, such as Lightroom Mobile, and Creative Cloud Libraries, a central place for users to store their assets. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under Principal Products, Services and Solutions. In our Creative Cloud business, we employ our product-led growth strategy to minimize the friction of customer interactions and drive positive product experiences, which results in increasing customer adoption, usage, conversion, expansion and loyalty. We also continue to employ a pricing strategy, as appropriate, to migrate our customers to higher-value offerings as well as attract past customers and potential users to try out our products and ultimately subscribe. We use a data-driven operating model and our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions to drive and optimize customer awareness, engagement and licensing of our creative products and services at every stop of the customer journey through our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is the central destination where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. Our customers have the flexibility to subscribe to over twenty of our Creative Cloud products through a single subscription or, for many of our apps, through various collections of our individual subscriptions to point products. To better serve our current users and potential users, we offer free and premium levels for certain apps, such as Adobe Firefly and Adobe Express, and targeted packages and suites, such as our Photography Plan and Substance 3D Collection. Our generative AI capabilities are increasing the value of our existing subscription products, expanding our potential customer base and increasing engagement and retention through Generative Credits credits that provide users and subscribers the ability to generate content with Firefly. The collaboration features across many of our products, such as in Photoshop on the web and Frame.io, help us to further expand our universe of customers beyond creative professionals to other stakeholders who use our products for review and approval, copywriting, social media marketing or other social content creation. We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for Teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for Enterprise offering. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with existing customers, attract new customers and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. In our Adobe Document Cloud business, we expect to drive sustained long-term revenue growth through an expansion of our customer base by continuing to employ our product-led growth strategy, deliver the best PDF experience on and across every platform, improve Acrobat web s functionality and ease of use, and expand the number of digital document and workflow-based actions in Acrobat. We are driving innovation with Adobe Sensei, our cross-platform AI and machine learning technology, to make documents more intelligent and responsive. We are unlocking business workflows through PDF and Acrobat Sign Application Programming Interfaces ( APIs ), accelerating Document Cloud adoption through digital and direct sales, and deploying diversified go-to-market motions to reach all industries and businesses of all sizes. With over 50 million 5 Table of Contents online searches for PDF-related actions per month, we intend to harness that demand and attract new users and customers to our Document Cloud services through Acrobat web, which allows anyone to quickly access tools to create, edit, convert, sign and compress PDFs through their web browser. As with our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model to market our Document Cloud solutions and optimize our subscription-based pricing for individuals as well as small and medium businesses, large enterprises, and government institutions around the world. We utilize our corporate and volume licensing programs to increase our reach in our key markets and are continuing to focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, and on expanding into emerging markets. We will continue to engage in strategic partnerships to help expand our distribution reach and drive the enterprise business. As our Document Cloud customers increasingly expect business processes to be seamless across surfaces and the web, we are expanding our Document Cloud capabilities to meet this need. Acrobat Reader is available on mobile, and features AI-powered Liquid Mode to automatically reformat PDFs for quick navigation and easier consumption on smaller screens. Acrobat is available on the web, delivering quick results for common PDF actions with a single click. Adobe Scan powers mobile devices with scanning capabilities, transforming paper documents into full-featured PDFs. Acrobat Sign also provides a green alternative to costly, paper-based solutions and offers a convenient solution for customers to digitally manage their documents, automate processes and contract workflows, and is integrated into Acrobat across all surfaces. By using Adobe Sensei to enhance customer experiences and adding new capabilities to Acrobat, Adobe Scan and Acrobat Sign, we help our customers and users continue to migrate away from paper-based processes and adopt our solutions for personalized, digital document experiences, growing our revenue with this business in the process. Digital Experience Opportunity Consumers today buy experiences, not just products, and they demand personalized digital experiences that are relevant, engaging, seamless and secure across an ever-expanding range of channels and surfaces. Business customers increasingly have the same expectations, driving business-to-business ( B2B ) companies to deliver equally engaging and seamless experiences as business-to-consumer ( B2C ) companies. With AI-powered automation and personalization, people and brands will increasingly stand out through unique creative expression, and the future of experiences across industries and everyday life will become increasingly personalized. Delivering the best, personalized experience to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content across multiple channels in real time and at scale. We have a strategic opportunity to provide solutions that enable real-time personalization at scale and accelerate our customers content supply chain, with a streamlined and coordinated process from content ideation through deployment and measurement and optimization. Marketing is also increasingly evolving from a centralized discipline to a multi-practitioner, cross-functional, collaborative field, and marketing and IT teams are looking for a return on investment to demonstrate the business impact of their transformation initiatives. Adobe Experience Cloud is powering digital businesses by helping them provide exceptional personalized experiences to their customers via a comprehensive suite of solutions. Addressing the challenges of customer experience management is a large and growing opportunity and we are in position to help businesses and enterprises invest in solutions that aid their goals to transform how they engage with their customers and constituents digitally. Strategy Our goal is to be a leading provider of cloud-based solutions for delivering digital experiences and enabling digital transformation. The Adobe Experience Cloud apps and services are designed to manage customer journeys, enable personalized experiences at scale and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry. The Adobe Experience Platform further strengthens our differentiation by offering a way to connect our comprehensive set of solutions. Further descriptions of our Digital Experience products are included below under Principal Products, Services and Solutions. Adobe Experience Cloud delivers solutions for our customers across the following strategic growth pillars: Data insights and audiences . Our products, including Adobe Analytics, Customer Journey Analytics, Adobe Product Analytics, and our Real-time Customer Data Platform, deliver actionable data in real time to provide highly tailored and adaptive experiences across platforms. Content and commerce . Our products help customers manage, deliver, monetize, and optimize content delivery through Adobe Experience Manager and build multi-channel commerce experiences for B2B and B2C customers on a single platform with Adobe Commerce. 6 Table of Contents Customer journeys . Our products help businesses manage, test, target and personalize customer journeys delivered as campaigns across B2B and B2C use cases, including through Adobe Marketo Engage, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Adobe Journey Optimizer. Marketing planning and workflow . Our products help businesses intelligently measure, optimize, and plan marketing investments through the Adobe Mix Modeler, and allow businesses to strategically plan, manage, collaborate, and execute on workflows for marketing campaigns and other projects at speed and scale with our enterprise work management app, Adobe Workfront. Our goal is to deploy our capabilities to help enterprises generate highly engaging experiences, enable content creators to enhance creativity and scale content production, and provide marketing strategists with recommendations to improve marketing strategy and enhance the delivery of personalized customer journeys. We believe innovations like Adobe Sensei and Adobe Sensei GenAI our collection of natively embedded AI services in Adobe Experience Cloud that enable the delivery of more relevant and personalized customer journeys enhance the delivery and personalization of digital experiences. Adobe Experience Cloud offers domain-specific AI services in areas such as attribution and automated insights, customer journey management, lead management, sentiment analysis, one-click personalization, enhanced anomaly detection and more that work with Adobe Experience Platform to augment our Experience Cloud product offerings. We are also building generative AI into our Adobe Experience Cloud product offerings, such as the updated Adobe Experience Manager. By building on these features and capabilities, we increase the value we provide our customers and create a competitive differentiation in the market. Adobe Experience Cloud offers an open platform and ecosystem through the Adobe Experience Platform. Adobe Experience Platform s open system transforms user data from across Adobe solutions and third-party software into robust customer profiles. Adobe customer profiles are updated in real time and include AI-driven insights, allowing a brand to deliver the right customer experiences across channels. This open architecture offers scalability with a wide variety of supporting products and services empowers users to quickly develop innovative apps to interact with customers and enables a broad industry ecosystem. To drive growth of Adobe Experience Cloud, we focus on delivering customer engagement, growth within existing customer accounts, product differentiation and the best customer experience management solutions for B2B and B2C buyers across enterprise and mid-market segments. Within our established base of customers, we intend to pursue growth through a scaled go-to-market approach focused on C-suite partnerships, transformational accounts, continued customer acquisition, customer value realization and solution expansion. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We also maintain several strategic partnerships with other technology companies that allow us to increase our market reach. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all these routes to market and believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Experience segment in fiscal 2024 and beyond. Publishing and Advertising Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web app development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising offerings. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are well positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for this industry. Adobe Advertising delivers an end-to-end, demand-side platform for managing advertising across digital formats and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens. We generate revenue in our legacy Publishing products and services by licensing our technology to original equipment manufacturers that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices, and we generally generate revenue in Advertising through usage-based offerings. 7 Table of Contents COMPETITION Overview We participate in a rapidly evolving, highly competitive global environment, where our competitors vary by industries and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller entities with specialized and focused product offerings. Across our business, we recognize hundreds of competitors worldwide. The markets for our products and services are characterized by new industry standards, evolving distribution models, rapid technology innovation, frequent product introductions and short product life cycles. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products, services and solutions and introduce new ones on a timely and cost-effective basis, accurately predict and meet changing customer needs, provide best-in-class information security to build customer confidence and combat cyber-attacks, extend our core technologies into new apps and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes. A summary of the competitive environment for each of our business segments is included below. See the section titled Risk Factors contained in Part 1, Item 1A of this report for additional information regarding risks related to competition. Digital Media Our Digital Media segment faces competition from large, established companies as well as a variety of point offerings, free products, websites, downloadable apps and other products and offerings. We compete in a rapidly evolving and growing market and face significant direct or indirect competition from: software companies and AI companies; device, hardware and camera manufacturers, including those that integrate software for digital media, such as photo and video; proprietary and open-source web-authoring tools; mobile-first apps; web native tools and platforms; social media platforms that provide digital media offerings, including editing capabilities; providers of stock content; digital document creation, storage, col