Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 23 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II 27 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Reserved 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 39 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Consolidated Statements of Income 43 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 44 Consolidated Balance Sheets 45 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 46 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 47 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 82 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 82 Item 9B. Other Information 84 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 84 PART III 85 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 85 Item 11. Executive Compensation 85 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 85 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 85 PART IV 86 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 86 Schedule II - Va luation and Qualifying Accounts 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 94 Signatures 95 Note About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbor created under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, potential, may, could and will, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections regarding our future financial performance or results; our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses; the effects of business, economic, political, legal and regulatory impacts or conflicts upon our global operations; changes in demand for semiconductors and the related changes in demand and supply for our products, including the effects of customer inventory adjustments; manufacturing delays, product availability, and supply chain disruptions; our ability to recruit or retain our key personnel; our future liquidity, capital needs and capital expenditures; our development of technologies and processes and research and development investments; our future market position and expected competitive changes in the marketplace for our products; our plans to pay dividends or repurchase stock; servicing our outstanding debt; our plans to borrow under our third amended and restated revolving credit agreement, as amended, and issue notes under our commercial paper program and the planned use of proceeds from such borrowing and issuing; our expected tax rate; the effect of tax examinations and audits and changes in or the application of new or revised tax laws; expected cost savings; the effect of new accounting pronouncements; our plans to integrate or realize the benefits or synergies expected of acquired businesses and technologies; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified in Part I,