Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II 27 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Reserved 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 41 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Consolidated Statements of Income 45 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 46 Consolidated Balance Sheets 47 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity 48 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 49 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 87 Item 9C. D isclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 87 PART III 88 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 88 Item 11. Executive Compensation 88 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 88 PART IV 89 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 89 Schedule II - Va luation and Qualifying Accounts 96 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Signatures 98 Note About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbor created under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, may, could and will, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections regarding our future financial performance; our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses; new or improved innovative solutions, products, and technologies; the effects of business, economic, political, legal, and regulatory impacts or conflicts upon our global operations; changes in demand for semiconductors and the related changes in demand and supply for our products; manufacturing, delays, product availability, and supply chain disruptions; our ability to recruit or retain our key personnel; our future liquidity, capital needs and capital expenditures; our development of technologies and research and development investments; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition and results of operations; our future market position and expected competitive changes in the marketplace for our products; our plans to pay dividends or repurchase stock; servicing our outstanding debt; our expected tax rate; the effect of changes in or the application of new or revised tax laws; expected cost savings; the effect of new accounting pronouncements; plans to integrate or realize the benefits or synergies expected of acquired businesses and technologies, including the acquired business, operations and employees of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; our continued initiatives to consolidate our footprint related to our business units including our manufacturing, engineering, sales, marketing and administrative offices; implementation of environment, health and safety standards; environment, social and governance related goals; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified in Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements, including to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report, except to the extent required by law. 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview, Strategy and Mission Analog Devices, Inc. (we, Analog Devices or the Company) is a leading semiconductor company dedicated to solving our customers' most complex engineering challenges. We deliver innovations that connect technology to human breakthroughs and play a critical role at the intersection of the physical and digital world by providing the building blocks to sense, measure, interpret, connect and power. We design, manufacture, test and market a broad portfolio of solutions, including integrated circuits (ICs), software and subsystems that leverage high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing technologies. Our comprehensive product portfolio, deep domain expertise and advanced manufacturing capabilities extend across high-performance precision and high-speed mixed-signal, power management and processing technologies including data converters, amplifiers, power management, radio frequency (RF) ICs, edge processors and other sensors. The Third Wave of Information and Communications Technology, as we refer to it at Analog Devices, is characterized by ubiquitous sensing, hyper-scale and edge computing and pervasive connectivity. These technological trends are driving a continuous evolution of new generations of applications that are increasing the demand for Analog Devices high-performance analog, mixed-signal, power and RF ICs. We have positioned our business to capitalize on the secular growth opportunities across our markets and to deliver innovative solutions. Central to our strategy is our focus on challenges that our customers have across the most impactful application areas. That is built around the following three key priorities, which will continue to drive our long-term success: Efficient use of capital. Research and development (R D) is critical to continue our cycle of innovation-driven success. We target the most attractive opportunities, particularly across our business-to-business (B2B) markets including Industrial, Automotive and Communications. We are also deeply committed to extracting value from our recent acquisitions to complement our R D and drive long-term value creation. Through the development of cutting-edge innovations and our ability to solve difficult problems across a broad array of applications, we generate significant cash flow and are deeply committed to delivering strong shareholder returns. Deepening customer-centricity. Close customer relationships influence aspects of our business: from our broad range of product portfolios and applications expertise to manufacturing capabilities in high-performance power management and precision and high-speed signal processing technologies. At the same time, our engineering talent continues to be an important competitive differentiator in the semiconductor space. We strive to be the destination for the world's best engineering talent with a team of more than 11,400 engineers. Together, our products and our engineering talent enable us to partner with our customers, leveraging our analog domain expertise and receiving the full benefit of our technology capabilities to develop complete and innovative solutions. Capitalizing on secular trends. We are positioned to capitalize on important secular growth trends, including the Intelligent Edge, industrial automation, ubiquitous connectivity, electric vehicles, in-cabin experience, digital healthcare and space, as we are well-aligned with the key B2B markets driving this increase in data and we will continue to be a critical partner in the collection, creation and communication of our customers edge data. In addition to driving organic growth, our strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering talent or enhance our technological capabilities. For example, we have executed on this strategy through: the acquisition of Hittite Microwave Corporation in the fiscal year ended November 1, 2014, which strengthened our market leadership in high-performance RF and broadened our portfolio across the entire frequency spectrum from DC to 100 gigahertz; the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear) in the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017, which added high-performance power management and additional precision signal processing to our portfolio, expanding and diversifying our offerings to deliver more complete solutions; and the acquisition of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. (Maxim) in the fiscal year ended October 30, 2021 (fiscal 2021), which strengthens our position as a high-performance analog semiconductor company. We were incorporated in Massachusetts in 1965 with our corporate headquarters near Boston in Wilmington, Massachusetts. We have manufacturing facilities primarily in the United States, Ireland and Southeast Asia. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol ADI and is included in the Standard Poor s 500 Index. 2 Acquisition of Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. On August 26, 2021 (Acquisition Date), we completed the acquisition of Maxim, an independent manufacturer of innovative analog and mixed-signal products and technologies. Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 12, 2020 (the Merger Agreement), Maxim stockholders received, for each outstanding share of Maxim common stock, 0.6300 of a share of the Company s common stock as of the Acquisition Date, for total consideration of approximately $28.0 billion of our common stock. The acquisition of Maxim is referred to as the Acquisition. Available Information We maintain a website with the address www.analog.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including exhibits), and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website our by-laws, corporate governance guidelines, the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and corporate governance committee, our equity award granting policies, our code of business conduct and ethics which applies to our directors, officers and employees, and our related person transaction policy, and such information is available in print and free of charge to any shareholder of Analog Devices who requests it. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC or Nasdaq. Products Semiconductor components are the building blocks used in electronic systems and equipment. These components are classified as either discrete devices, such as individual transistors, or as ICs, in which a number of transistors and other elements are combined to form a more complicated electronic circuit. Our ICs are designed to address a wide range of real-world signal processing applications. We sell our ICs to customers worldwide, many of whom use products spanning our core technologies in a wide range of applications. Our IC product portfolio includes both general-purpose products used by a broad range of customers and applications, as well as application-specific products designed for specific target markets. By using readily available, high-performance, general-purpose products in their systems, our customers can reduce the time they need to bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing more customized ICs, our standard products often provide a cost-effective solution for many low to medium volume applications. More specifically, our analog ICs monitor, condition, amplify or transform continuous analog signals associated with physical properties, such as temperature, pressure, weight, light, sound or motion, and play an important role in bridging real world phenomena to a variety of electronic systems. Our analog ICs also provide voltage regulation and power control to electronic systems. We also focus on working with leading customers to design application-specific solutions. We begin with our existing core technologies, which leverage our analog and mixed signal, power management, RF and microwave, edge processors and other sensors, and devise solutions that more closely meet the needs of a specific customer or group of customers. Because we have already developed the core technology platform for our general-purpose products, we can create application-specific solutions quickly and efficiently. Our analog and mixed-signal IC technology has been the foundation of our business for over five decades, and we are one of the world s largest suppliers of high-performance analog ICs. Our analog signal processing ICs are primarily high-performance devices, offering higher dynamic range, greater bandwidth, and other enhanced features. We believe that the principal advantages these products have as compared to competitors products include higher accuracy, higher speed, lower cost per function, smaller size, lower power consumption and fewer components, resulting in improved performance and reliability. Our product portfolio includes several thousand analog ICs, many of which can have several hundred end customers. Our analog ICs typically have long product life cycles. Our customers include original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and customers who build electronic subsystems for integration into larger systems. Our product offerings include more than 75,000 stock keeping units (SKUs) that can be aggregated into the following general categories: Analog and Mixed Signal We are a leading supplier of data converter products. Data converters translate real-world analog signals into digital data and also translate digital data into analog signals. Data converters remain our largest and most diverse product family and an area where we are continuously innovating to enable our customers to redefine and differentiate their products. Our converter products combine sampling rates and accuracy with the low noise, power, price and small package size required by industrial, automotive, consumer, and communications electronics. 3 Power Management Reference Power management and reference products, which include functions such as power conversion, driver monitoring, sequencing and energy management, provide efficient solutions for power management and conversion applications in the automotive, communications, industrial and high-end consumer markets. Our high-performance power ICs include powerful performance, integration and software design simulation tools to provide fast and accurate power supply designs. Amplifiers/RF and Microwave We are also a leading supplier of high-performance amplifiers which are used to condition analog signals. High performance amplifiers emphasize the performance dimensions of speed and precision. Within this product portfolio we provide precision, instrumentation, high speed, intermediate frequency/RF/microwave, broadband, and other amplifiers. Our analog product line also includes a broad portfolio of high-performance RF and microwave ICs covering the entire RF signal chain. Our high-performance RF and microwave ICs support the high-performance requirements of cellular infrastructure and a broad range of applications in our target markets, including instrumentation, aerospace and automotive. Sensors Actuators Our analog technology portfolio is comprised of sensor and actuator products, including products based on micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) technology. MEMS technology enables us to build extremely small sensors that incorporate an electromechanical structure and the supporting analog circuitry for conditioning signals obtained from the sensing element. Our MEMS product portfolio includes accelerometers used to sense acceleration, gyroscopes used to sense rotation, inertial measurement units used to sense multiple degrees of freedom combining multiple sensing types along multiple axes, and broadband switches suitable for radio and instrument systems. We offer other high-performance sensors, from temperature to magnetic fields, that are deployed in a variety of systems. In addition to sensor products, our other analog product category includes isolators that enable designers to implement isolation in designs without the cost, size, power, performance, and reliability constraints found with optocouplers. Digital Signal Processing and System Products (DSPs) DSPs are optimized for high-speed numeric calculations, which are essential for instantaneous, or real-time, processing of digital data generated, in most cases, from analog to digital signal conversion. Our DSPs are designed to be fully programmable and to efficiently execute specialized software programs, or algorithms, associated with processing digitized real-time, real-world data. Programmable DSPs are designed to provide the flexibility to modify the device s function quickly and inexpensively using software. Our general-purpose DSP IC customers typically write their own algorithms using software development tools provided by us and third-party suppliers. Our DSPs are designed in families of products that share common architectures and therefore can execute the same software across a range of products. Sales Channel We sell our products globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via our website. We have direct sales offices, sales representatives and/or distributors in over 50 countries. We support our worldwide sales efforts through our website and with extensive promotional programs that include editorial coverage and paid advertising in online and printed trade publications, webinars, social media and communities, promotional and training videos, direct mail programs, technical seminars and participation in trade shows. We publish, share and distribute technical content such as data sheets, application guides and catalogs. We maintain a staff of field application engineers who aid customers in incorporating our products into their products. In addition, we offer a variety of web-based tools that ease product selection and aid in the design process for our customers. We believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, or move customers to a direct support or fulfillment model as we deem appropriate given our strategies, the level of distributor business activity and distributor performance and financial condition. These distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. Some of them also sell products that compete with our products, including those for which we are an alternate source. We make sales to distributors under agreements that allow certain distributors to receive price adjustment credits and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by us, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory. These agreements limit such returns to a certain percentage of our shipments to that distributor during the prior quarter. In addition, certain distributors are allowed to return unsold products if we terminate the relationship with the distributor. Additional information relating to our revenue and customer concentration is set forth in Note 2l, Concentrations of Risk ; Note 2n, Revenue Recognition ; and Note 4, Industry, Segment and Geographic Information , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In some of our markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and 4 have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellation of orders leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, those orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customer s unique requirements so that those canceled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for some of our products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial. Markets The breakdown of our annual revenue by end market is set out in the table below: End Market* Percent of Fiscal 2022 Revenue Percent of Fiscal 2021 Revenue Percent of Fiscal 2020 Revenue Industrial 51% 55% 54% Automotive 21% 17% 14% Communications 16% 16% 21% Consumer 13% 11% 11% *The sum of the individual percentages may not equal 100% due to rounding. The following describes some of the characteristics of, and customer products within, our major end markets of Industrial, Automotive, Communications and Consumer: Industrial Our industrial market includes the following sectors: Industrial Automation We are a leader in industrial automation because we deliver robust, high performance solutions from our deep motion and process control expertise and precision sensing measurement and interpretation to expansive connectivity and power capabilities. We take real-world phenomena in the most complex environments on the factory floor and translate it into valuable insights and outcomes. We co-create with customers to architect robotics systems and solutions that improve dynamic behavior and precision while enhancing worker safety, machine health, and manufacturing flexibility. Our industrial automation market includes applications such as: Condition-based monitoring (CbM) Industrial power supplies Industrial robotics Industrial motion control Factory and process control Instrumentation Measurement Trusted measurement is at the forefront of innovation. With the rapid pace of global transformation, from ubiquitous connectivity, to electrification, to artificial intelligence, to human health and environmental sustainability all these trends require reliable and efficient test solutions from R D to manufacturing to field deployment. We enable high performance measurement through our components and system solutions. Our RF, high-speed and power management products are designed to enable solutions for complying with evolving communications standards. Our high-voltage, isolation and precision products are a key part of the systems that are designed for safety, longevity and efficiency in electric vehicles and renewable energy. Beyond electrical testing, our precision and power technology enable analytical instruments for drug or vaccine R D and manufacturing, food safety and quality, and environmental monitoring. Our instrumentation and measurement market includes applications such as: Automated test equipment Automotive and energy test Electronic test and measurement Life sciences and drug discovery Environmental and process analysis Aerospace/Defense The defense, commercial avionics and space markets all require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and reliability specifications. Many of our ICs can be supplied in versions that meet these standards. In addition, many products can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and other commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this market are specially tested versions of products derived from our standard product offering. As end systems are becoming more complex, many of our customers in this market also look for us to provide higher levels of integration in order to minimize size, weight and power and to improve ease-of-use. As such, we also sell products in the form of SiPs (system in package), printed circuit board assemblies, modules, and subsystems. Customer 5 products include applications such as: Navigation systems Radar systems Space and satellite communications Security devices Communication systems Electronic surveillance and countermeasures Healthcare The healthcare market is evolving in response to the need for increased access to better and more affordable care, as well as a growing focus on preventative healthcare and the need to better manage chronic conditions. To help achieve this, we are collaborating with customers and partners on innovative solutions that are designed to achieve better outcomes for patients and physicians at reduced costs for all. Our offerings include both standard and application-specific products and are used in applications such as: Ultrasound systems Anesthesia equipment X-Ray equipment (CT and DR) Lab diagnostic equipment Image guided therapy Surgical tools and instruments Multi-parameter vital signs monitors Blood analyzers Remote patient monitoring Point-of-care diagnostics Energy Management The global drive towards improved energy efficiency, conservation, reliability and cleanliness is driving investments in electrification across many different application areas, including electric vehicle charging infrastructure, renewable energy, power transmission and distribution systems, electric meters and other innovative areas. The common characteristic behind these efforts is the addition of sensing, measurement and communication technologies to electrical infrastructure. Our offerings include both standard and application-specific products and are used in applications such as: Utility meters Wind turbines Electric vehicle charging infrastructure Solar inverters Substation relays and automation equipment Building energy automation/control Automotive We develop differentiated high-performance signal processing solutions, which enable sophisticated transportation systems that span infotainment, electrification and autonomous applications. Through collaboration with manufacturers worldwide, we have developed a broad portfolio of analog, digital, power and sensor ICs that address the emerging needs of this evolving industry. Our focus is on audio/video applications that lead to an enriched in-cabin experience, electrification applications that improve vehicle range and reduce emissions, and mission-critical perception and navigation applications that enable vehicles to more clearly sense the external environment. Specifically, we have developed products used in applications such as: Car audio, voice processing and connectivity Battery monitoring and management systems Video processing and connectivity Communications The development of broadband, wireless and internet infrastructures around the world has created an important market for our communications products. Communications technology involves the processing of signals that are converted from analog to digital and digital to analog form during the process of transmitting and receiving data. The need for higher speed and reduced power consumption, coupled with more reliable, bandwidth-efficient communications, creates demand for our products, which are used in the full spectrum of signal processing for data, video, voice and machine-to-machine communications. In wireless and wireline communication applications, our products are incorporated into: Cellular base station equipment Satellite and terrestrial broadband access equipment Microwave backhaul systems Optical and cable networking equipment for data center and carrier providers Data centers and data storage Consumer To address the market demand for state of the art personal and professional entertainment systems and the consumer demand for high quality user interfaces, music, movies and photographs, we have developed analog, digital and mixed-signal and power solutions that meet the rigorous cost and time-to-market requirements of the consumer electronics market. The emergence of high-performance, feature-rich consumer products has created a market for our high-performance ICs with a high level of specific functionality that enables best in class user experience and battery management. These products include: Portable devices (smart phones, tablets and wearable devices) for media and vital signs monitoring applications Prosumer audio/video equipment 6 See Note 4, Industry, Segment and Geographic Information , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Stat