Item 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company or ADM) unlocks the power of nature to enrich the quality of life. The Company is an essential global agricultural supply chain manager and processor; a premier human and animal nutrition provider; a trailblazer in groundbreaking solutions to support healthier living; an industry-leading innovator in replacing petroleum-based products; and a leader in sustainability. ADM s breadth, depth, insights, facilities and logistical expertise give the Company unparalleled capabilities to meet demand driven by global trends related to food security, health and well-being, and sustainability of the agriculture and food value chains. From the seed of the idea to the outcome of the solution, ADM gives customers an advantage in solving the nutritional and sustainability challenges of today and tomorrow. The Company is one of the world s leading producers of ingredients for sustainable nutrition. From staple foods, such as flour, oils, and sweeteners, to innovative alternatives like plant-based meat and dairy, ADM offers the industry s broadest portfolio of food and beverage solutions. The Company is also a leader in animal nutrition. Today, more and more people want to feed their pets with the same kind of clean, simple, and healthy products that they eat themselves, and consumers expect livestock and poultry to be fed and raised naturally, humanely, and sustainably. ADM offers a range of ingredients, flavors, and solutions from nature to meet animal s needs. ADM is a global leader in health and well-being, with an industry-leading range of probiotics, enzymes, supplements, and more to meet the needs of consumers looking for new ways to live healthier lives. The Company is also leading the way to a future of new consumer and industrial solutions from nature. With unparalleled expertise and capacity in precision fermentation, ADM is reimagining the world of plastics, lubricants, adhesives, home products, and more. ADM also has significant investments and joint ventures that aim to expand or enhance the market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product-line expansion. At ADM, sustainable practices and a focus on environmental responsibility are foundational to the Company s purpose and culture, and integral to the work the Company does every day to serve customers and create value for shareholders. ADM s Board of Directors actively oversees the Company s sustainability strategy through a board-level Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee (Sustainability Committee), and ADM s Chief Sustainability Officer is part of the core strategy team and reports to the Senior Vice President and President of Ag Services and Oilseeds. Utilizing ADM s unique position in the agricultural value chain, including relationships with farmers around the globe and an unparalleled origination, transportation, and processing network, the Company is enhancing sustainability and leading in decarbonization across the multiple value chains in which it operates. ADM works with growers by supporting them with personalized services and innovative technologies and partnering with them to develop and enhance sustainable practices, including a goal of enrolling four million regenerative agriculture acres by 2025. The Company is actively working to improve the efficiency of its facilities and vehicles, finding alternative uses for waste, reusing and recycling water, and sequestering carbon at its onsite capture and storage facility. These efforts are helping advance ADM s Strive 35 commitments to, by 2035, reduce from a 2019 baseline absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 25%; reduce from a 2021 baseline absolute Scope 3 emissions by 25%; reduce energy intensity by 15% and increase low-carbon energy usage to 25% of total; reduce water intensity and water withdrawal by 10%; and achieve a 90% landfill diversion rate. All of this work is propelling ADM s broadening array of products from nature, which are helping customers meet increasing demand for more sustainable solutions spanning food, feed, fuel, and industrial and consumer products. The Company is strongly committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. ADM fundamentally values the differences between individuals and believes a variety of perspectives makes for a better company. The Company s innovation and expertise are helping people live healthier lives and support a healthier planet. The Company s globally-integrated footprint combines with local insights to give ADM capabilities few other companies have to meet critical and global needs. 5 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Segment Descriptions The Company s operations are organized, managed, and classified into three reportable business segments: Ag Services and Oilseeds, Carbohydrate Solutions, and Nutrition. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Company s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other Business. Financial information with respect to the Company s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 herein, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Item 8). Ag Services and Oilseeds The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment includes global activities related to the origination, merchandising, transportation, and storage of agricultural raw materials, and the crushing and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the segment include ingredients for food, feed, energy, and industrial customers. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segment s crushing activities are sold as is to manufacturers of renewable green diesel and other customers or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and/or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel and glycols or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment is also a major supplier of peanuts and peanut-derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets. In North America, cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and other industrial markets. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment s grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network (including barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, rail, and container freight services) provides reliable and efficient services to the Company s customers and agricultural processing operations. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment also includes agricultural commodity and feed product import, export, and global distribution, and structured trade finance activities. The Company engages in various structured trade finance activities to leverage its global trade flows. The Company has a 22.5% equity interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company. Wilmar is a leading global agribusiness group headquartered in Asia engaged in the businesses of packaged oils and packaged foods, oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing. The Company has a 32.2% equity interest in Pacificor. Pacificor owns and operates grain export elevators in Kalama, Washington and Portland, Oregon. The Company has a 50.0% equity interest in SoyVen, a joint venture between ADM and Cargill to provide soybean meal and oil for customers in Egypt. The Company has a 37.5% equity interest in Olenex Sarl (Olenex), a joint venture between ADM and Wilmar that produces and sells a comprehensive portfolio of edible oils and fats to customers around the globe. In addition, Olenex markets refined oils and fats from the Company s plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, and the U.K. The Company has a 50.0% equity interest in Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between ADM and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, that procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America. The Company has a 50.0% equity interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between ADM and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom. The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria. The Company is a supplier of raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, Edible Oils Limited, SoyVen, and Olenex. 6 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Carbohydrate Solutions The Carbohydrate Solutions segment is engaged in corn and wheat wet and dry milling and other activities. The Carbohydrate Solutions segment converts corn and wheat into products and ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, corn and wheat starches, syrup, glucose, wheat flour, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Carbohydrate Solutions segment as feedstocks in other downstream processes. By fermentation of dextrose, the Carbohydrate Solutions segment produces alcohol and other food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use in products such as hand sanitizers and ethanol for use in gasoline due to its ability to increase octane as an extender and oxygenate. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by-product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Carbohydrate Solutions products include citric acids, which are used in various food and industrial products. The Carbohydrate Solutions segment is a leader in carbon capture and sequestration. By continuing to advance additional carbon capture and sequestration initiatives and products aimed at replacing coal power and steam generation with lower emissions power, the Carbohydrate Solutions segment is well positioned to benefit from the replacement of essential materials historically made from fossil fuels with plant-based alternatives. The Company has a 50.0% equity interest in Hungrana Ltd. which operates a corn wet milling plant in Hungary. The Company has a 50.0% equity interest in Almidones Mexicanos S.A. which operates a corn wet milling plant in Mexico. The Company has a 50.0% equity interest in Aston Foods and Food Ingredients, a Russian-based sweeteners and starches business. The Company has a 40.0% equity interest in Red Star Yeast Company, LLC, which produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the U.S. and Canada. The Company has a 22.1% equity interest in LSCP, LLLP, which operates an ethanol plant facility in the U.S. Nutrition The Nutrition segment serves various end markets including food, beverages, nutritional supplements, and feed premix and additives for livestock, aquaculture, and pet food. The segment engages in the manufacturing, sale, and distribution of a wide array of ingredients and solutions including plant-based proteins, natural flavors, flavor systems, natural colors, emulsifiers, soluble fiber, polyols, hydrocolloids, probiotics, prebiotics, postbiotics, enzymes, botanical extracts, and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Nutrition segment includes the activities related to the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The segment also includes activities related to the processing and distribution of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products and the manufacture of contract and private label pet treats and foods. The Company has a 45.3% equity interest in Vimison S.A. de C.V., a leader in the animal nutrition industry in Mexico. The Company has 50% equity interests in ADM Matsutani LLC and Matsutani Singapore Pte. Ltd., joint ventures for the worldwide sales and marketing of Fibersol. The Company has a 50% equity interest in ADM Vland Biotech Shandong Co., Ltd., which manufactures and commercializes human probiotics in Greater China. As of December 31, 2023, this joint venture has temporarily ceased operations. The Company has a 42.8% equity interest in Dusial S.A., a leader in the complete feed industry in Southwest of France. The Company has a 34.3% equity interest in Vitafort ZRT, a leading company in the Hungarian animal feed market. Other Business Other Business includes the Company s remaining operations as described below. 7 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S. ADM Investor Services International Limited, a member of several derivative and commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited, a clearing member of the Singapore exchange, and ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of ADM offering brokerage services in Europe and Asia. Insurance activities include Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and its subsidiaries. Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of ADM, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, medical, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company. Agrinational also participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements. Corporate Corporate includes the activities related to cost and equity method investments in early-stage start-up companies within ADM Ventures. In addition to identifying companies to invest in, ADM Ventures also works on select high-potential, new product development projects and alternative business models, all with the objective of supporting the Company s strategic objectives. Internal Investigation Background As previously disclosed, the Company received a voluntary document request from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) relating to intersegment sales between the Company s Nutrition reporting segment and the Company s Ag Services and Oilseeds and Carbohydrate Solutions reporting segments. In response, the Company initiated an internal investigation regarding certain accounting practices and procedures with respect to its Nutrition reporting segment, including as related to certain intersegment sales (the Investigation). As previously disclosed on January 21, 2024, the Company placed Vikram Luthar, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, on administrative leave. Correction of Certain Segment-Specific Historical Financial Information The Company has historically disclosed in the footnotes to its financial statements that intersegment sales have been recorded at amounts approximating market. In connection with the Investigation, the Company identified certain intersegment sales that occurred between the Company s Nutrition reporting segment and the Company s Ag Services and Oilseeds and Carbohydrate Solutions reporting segments that were not recorded at amounts approximating market. Because each sale to be adjusted occurred between the Company s reporting segments, the adjustments have no impact on the Company s consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings, comprehensive income (loss), or cash flows. T he Company determined that the adjustments are not material to the Company s consolidated financial statements taken as a whole for any period. For more information, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results and Operations included in Part II, Item 7 herein, and Note 17, Segment and Geographic Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 herein. Government Investigations The Company continues to cooperate with the SEC. Following the Company s January 21, 2024 announcement of the Investigation, the Company received voluntary document requests from the Department of Justice (the DOJ) focused primarily on the same subject matter, and the DOJ directed grand jury subpoenas to certain current and former Company employees. The Company is cooperating with the DOJ. 8 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Methods of Distribution The Company s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers facilities. The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world. The Company owns or leases trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company s products to its customers. Concentration of Revenues by Product The following products accounted for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods: % of Revenues Year Ended December 31 2023 2022 2021 Soybeans 18% 17% 18% Soybean Meal 13% 12% 12% Corn 12% 14% 14% Status of New Products The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products. Acquisitions expand the Company s ability to unlock the potential of nature and serve customers evolving and expanding needs through its offerings of natural flavor and ingredient products. The Company does not expect any individual new product to have a significant impact on the Company s revenues in 2024. Source and Availability of Raw Materials A significant majority of the Company s raw materials are agricultural commodities. In addition, the Company sources specific fruits, vegetables, and nuts for extracts to make flavors and colors. In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), Asia, and Australia, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis. The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials. Some of the principal crops that ADM sources and processes present specific climate change risks. For example, South American soy and global palm present risks of deforestation due to their proximity to the forest and other high-carbon-value landscapes. In addition, when not managed appropriately, row crops such as corn, soy, wheat, and canola present environmental risks such as water quality impairment, erosion, soil degradation, and GHG emissions. However, these crops also present an opportunity to combat climate change through their ability to sequester carbon in the soil using regenerative agricultural practices. In 2022, ADM launched its re: generations program to engage and encourage growers in its supply chain to implement regenerative agriculture practices. In the first year of the program, the Company exceeded its goal to enroll one million acres. In 2023, the Company expanded its regenerative agriculture program to cover two million acres across 18 U.S. states and Canada and also extended the program into new geographies, launching regenerative agriculture projects in Europe and South America, with a goal to enroll four million acres globally by 2025. 9 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Under the stewardship of ADM s Board of Directors, the Company has established several key social and environmental policies that collectively outline expectations for its employees, business partners and contractors, and the Company as a whole with respect to its sourcing operations. These policies set the standards that govern the Company s approach to environmental stewardship, employee conduct, and raw material sourcing, among other areas, and outline ADM s positions on issues of widespread public interest. These standards are included in, among others, the Company s Code of Conduct; Environment, Health, and Safety Policy; Human Rights Policy; Commitment to Protect Forests, Biodiversity, and Communities; Statement on Genetically Modified Organisms; Statement on Animal Testing; Commitment to Anti-Corruption Compliance; Protocol for Managing Supplier Non-Compliance and ADM Supplier Expectations, all of which are available on the Company s website (see Item 1, Business - Available Information). In addition to policies, a portion of the Company s commodity sourcing is conducted using third-party certification programs including ADM Responsible Soy, Biomass Biofuel Sustainability Voluntary Scheme, Round Table for Responsible Soy, International Sustainability and Carbon Certification, Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil, and U.S. Soy Sustainability Assurance Protocol. These programs have standards that are established to provide transparency on specific sustainability-related criteria. ADM procures canola, soybeans, and palm under these programs. Trademarks, Brands, Recipes, and other Intellectual Property The Company owns trademarks, brands, recipes, and other intellectual property including patents, with a net book value of $734 million as of December 31, 2023. More than 90% of these intangibles are in the Nutrition segment which is not materially dependent upon any individual trademark, brand, recipe or other intellectual property. Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services. There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, and other grains. The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world. Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest. The prices of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affect the Company s working capital requirements. Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months. Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels. No material part of the Company s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers. Competition The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, foreign exchange rates, quality, global supply, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company. Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company s asset portfolio. The Company s Nutrition business is a vertically integrated business that provides ingredients and solutions for human, animal, and pet in a highly competitive environment with a variety of companies offering the same products and services. The industry includes ingredient suppliers, contract manufacturers, global fast moving consumer goods companies, and private label brands, as well as smaller companies that specialize in specific niche markets. The Company focuses on staying ahead of the curve in terms of innovation and science-based solutions, building direct-to-consumer sales channels and focusing on consumer needs, expanding into new markets, building strategic partnerships, leveraging data and technology, and building a strong distribution network. 10 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Research and Development (R D) R D expense, net of reimbursements of government grants, for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $256 million. The Company is committed to global health and sustainable products, recognizing the interconnectedness of human, animal, and environmental health. ADM s R D efforts focus on creating science-based products, solutions, and technologies aligned with macro trends in food security, sustainable processes, health, and personalized nutrition. The Company strategically invests in R D across the entire nutrition value chain by leveraging its access to innovative processes and product optimization. The R D team is also engaged in BioSolutions initiatives which is a key part of ADM s commitment to utilize its value chain to reduce its carbon footprint, redesign core products with sustainable alternatives, and explore new markets. The Company s internal R D network, consisting of approximately 1,600 talented employees, is dedicated to transforming aspirations into solutions and brand innovation. The integration of interdisciplinary experts in biology, chemistry, physiology, nutrition, agronomy, and product development provides a competitive edge. R D teams are closely connected to customers and the global markets. Targeted product development leverages innovative ingredients and ADM s existing portfolio across different segments. R D innovation centers across four continents enable the rapid transformation of ideas into products. An external network of collaborators, including customers, key opinion leaders, start-ups, and academia amplifies the Company s scientific excellence. The scope and application of the Company s technical capabilities reinforce its commitment to global health and sustainable products. High-throughput screening and characterization facilities strengthen ADM s extensive ingredient database. Formulation platforms enable rapid upscaling or downscaling for cost-effective innovation. Resources dedicated to functional ingredient characterization enhance the Company s capacity to deliver on the science behind each product. ADM s R D strategy prioritizes fulfilling customer expectations and supporting the Company s growth. In 2023, ADM introduced over 40 new products aligned with short and medium-term customer needs. The Company s future strategy aims to deliver world-class solutions more efficiently and sustainably, and to capitalize on ADM s full potential. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) The Company knows that the health of our natural resources is critical to our future, and that its commitments to sustainable practices will result in a stronger ADM and a better world. ADM is committed to being a force for change in developing innovative, sustainable solutions in agriculture, food and nutrition, industrial and consumer products, energy, and packaging materials while pursuing ways to continually improve the Company s efforts in both protecting the environment and enhancing environmental sustainability. The United Nations Development Programme created the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) blueprint as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. ADM focuses its efforts toward goals that align with its business objectives and allow the Company to make the greatest contribution towards the achievement of the SDGs, specifically Zero Hunger, Clean Water and Sanitation, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Climate Action, and Life On Land. 11 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Governance The Sustainability Committee of the Board actively oversees the Company s objectives, goals, strategies, and activities relating to sustainability and corporate responsibility matters. The Sustainability Committee also oversees the Company s compliance with sustainability and corporate responsibility laws and regulations, assesses performance relating to industry benchmarks, and assists the Board of Directors in overseeing the Company s operations as a sustainable organization and responsible corporate citizen in order to enhance shareholder value and protect ADM s reputation. Both the Company s Chief Sustainability Officer and Senior Vice President of Global Operations attend committee meetings as management representatives. The Senior Vice President, Chief People and Diversity Officer meets periodically with the Sustainability Committee to discuss ADM s diversity progress and strategy. The Executive Council of ADM, the Company s highest strategic and operational body, provides close supervision of the Company s ESG efforts and in-depth review of sustainability issues. Furthermore, regional sustainability teams, along with the corporate sustainability team, support the Chief Sustainability Officer to drive sustainability efforts in the Company s facilities and supply chains around the world. ADM s sustainability efforts are also supported by functional expertise throughout the Company such as in Operations and Utilities, Supply Chain and Procurement, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, and Environmental Health and Safety (EHS). Strategy The Company aims to mitigate climate change and protect biodiversity through renewable product and process innovations, supply chain efforts including a commitment to no-deforestation or native vegetation conversion and 