Item 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (the Company or ADM) unlocks the power of nature to provide access to nutrition worldwide. ADM is a global leader in human and animal nutrition and one of the world s premier agricultural origination and processing companies. The Company's breadth, depth, insights, facilities, and logistical expertise give it exceptional capabilities to meet needs for food, beverages, health and wellness, and more. From the seed of the idea to the outcome of the solution, ADM enriches the quality of life the world over. ADM was incorporated in Delaware in 1923, successor to the Daniels Linseed Co. founded in 1902. Today, it is one of the world s leading producers of ingredients for human and animal nutrition, and other products made from nature. The Company works with customers to bring a wide array of natural products including proteins, flavors, colors, flours, fibers, and more together into unique and innovative solutions to meet consumer needs. In addition, ADM offers a deep portfolio of plant-based products for other uses, such as replacing petroleum-based plastics. In order to meet consumer needs, ADM has an expansive origination, transportation, and production footprint. The Company operates an extensive global grain elevator and transportation network to procure, store, clean, and transport agricultural raw materials, such as oilseeds, corn, wheat, milo, oats, and barley, as well as products derived from those inputs. ADM s production facilities around the globe produce a wide array of products, ingredients, and solutions. In addition, ADM has significant investments in joint ventures that aim to expand or enhance the market for its products or offer other benefits including, but not limited to, geographic or product-line expansion. Segment Descriptions Effective July 1, 2019, the Company changed its segment reporting to reflect the creation of the combined Ag Services and Oilseeds segment. The former Origination and Oilseeds businesses were merged into a combined Ag Services and Oilseeds segment which enables the Company to better respond to market changes by integrating the supply and value chains and risk management, while delivering significant simplification and efficiency to the day-to-day business. As part of the Company s efforts for a streamlined management structure, the combined segment is led by the former President of Oilseeds expanding his role to President of Ag Services and Oilseeds. The Company s operations are organized, managed, and classified into three reportable business segments: Ag Services and Oilseeds, Carbohydrate Solutions, and Nutrition. Each of these segments is organized based upon the nature of products and services offered. The Company s remaining operations are not reportable business segments, as defined by the applicable accounting standard, and are classified as Other. Financial information with respect to the Company s reportable business segments is set forth in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 herein, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Item 8). 4 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Ag Services and Oilseeds The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment includes global activities related to the origination, merchandising, transportation, and storage of agricultural raw materials, and the crushing and further processing of oilseeds such as soybeans and soft seeds (cottonseed, sunflower seed, canola, rapeseed, and flaxseed) into vegetable oils and protein meals. Oilseeds products produced and marketed by the segment include ingredients for food, feed, energy, and industrial customers. Crude vegetable oils produced by the segment s crushing activities are sold as is or are further processed by refining, blending, bleaching, and deodorizing into salad oils. Salad oils are sold as is or are further processed by hydrogenating and/or interesterifying into margarine, shortening, and other food products. Partially refined oils are used to produce biodiesel and glycols or are sold to other manufacturers for use in chemicals, paints, and other industrial products. Oilseed protein meals are principally sold to third parties to be used as ingredients in commercial livestock and poultry feeds. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment is also a major supplier of peanuts, tree nuts, and peanut-derived ingredients to both the U.S. and export markets. In North America, cotton cellulose pulp is manufactured and sold to the chemical, paper, and other industrial markets. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment's grain sourcing, handling, and transportation network (including barge, ocean-going vessel, truck, rail, and container freight services) provides reliable and efficient services to the Company's customers and agricultural processing operations. The Ag Services and Oilseeds segment also includes agricultural commodity and feed product import, export, and global distribution, and structured trade finance activities. In February 2019, the Company purchased the remaining 50% interest owned by InVivo Group in the Gleadell Agriculture Ltd. joint venture located in the United Kingdom. The Company has a 32.2% interest in Pacificor (formerly Kalama Export Company LLC). Pacificor owns and operates a grain export elevator in Kalama, Washington and a grain export elevator in Portland, Oregon. The Company has a 24.8% equity interest in Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar), a Singapore publicly listed company. Wilmar is a leading global agribusiness group headquartered in Asia engaged in the businesses of oil palm cultivation, oilseeds crushing, edible oils refining, packaged oils and foods, sugar milling and refining, specialty fats, oleo chemicals, biodiesel and fertilizers manufacturing, and grains processing. The Company has a 50% interest in Stratas Foods LLC, a joint venture between ADM and ACH Jupiter, LLC, a subsidiary of Associated British Foods, that procures, packages, and sells edible oils in North America. The Company has a 50% interest in Edible Oils Limited, a joint venture between ADM and Princes Limited to procure, package, and sell edible oils in the United Kingdom. The Company also formed a joint venture with Princes Limited in Poland to procure, package, and sell edible oils in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Austria. The Company has a 37.5% ownership interest in Olenex Sarl (Olenex), a joint venture between ADM and Wilmar, that produces and sells a comprehensive portfolio of edible oils and fats to customers around the globe. In addition, Olenex markets refined oils and fats from the Company's plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, and the U.K. The Company has a 50% interest in SoyVen, a joint venture between ADM and Cargill to provide soybean meal and oil for customers in Egypt. The Company is a major supplier of raw materials to Wilmar, Stratas Foods LLC, Edible Oils Limited, SoyVen, and Olenex. 5 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Carbohydrate Solutions The Carbohydrate Solutions segment is engaged in corn and wheat wet and dry milling and other activities. The Carbohydrate Solutions segment converts corn and wheat into products and ingredients used in the food and beverage industry including sweeteners, corn and wheat starches, syrup, glucose, wheat flour, and dextrose. Dextrose and starch are used by the Carbohydrate Solutions segment as feedstocks for its bioproducts operations. By fermentation of dextrose, the Carbohydrate Solutions segment produces alcohol and other food and animal feed ingredients. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the Company for industrial use as ethanol or as beverage grade. Ethanol, in gasoline, increases octane and is used as an extender and oxygenate. Corn gluten feed and meal, as well as distillers grains, are produced for use as animal feed ingredients. Corn germ, a by-product of the wet milling process, is further processed into vegetable oil and protein meal. Other Carbohydrate Solutions products include citric acids which are used in various food and industrial products. Hungrana Ltd., in which ADM owns a 50% interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Hungary. Almidones Mexicanos S.A., in which ADM has a 50% interest, operates a wet corn milling plant in Mexico. Red Star Yeast Company, LLC, a joint venture in which ADM has a 40% interest, produces and sells fresh and dry yeast in the United States and Canada. Aston Foods and Food Ingredients, in which ADM owns a 50% interest, is a Russian-based sweeteners and starches business. Nutrition The Nutrition segment serves customer needs for food, beverages, health and wellness, and more. The segment engages in the manufacturing, sale, and distribution of a wide array of products from nature including plant-based proteins, natural flavor ingredients, flavor systems, natural colors, emulsifiers, soluble fiber, polyols, hydrocolloids, natural health and nutrition products including probiotics, prebiotics, enzymes, and botanical extracts, and other specialty food and feed ingredients. The Nutrition segment includes the activities related to the procurement, processing, and distribution of edible beans. The Nutrition segment also includes activities related to the processing and distribution of formula feeds and animal health and nutrition products and the manufacture of contract and private label pet treats and foods. In 2019, ADM completed the acquisitions of Neovia, a French-based global provider of value-added animal nutrition solutions, with 72 production facilities and a presence in 25 countries; Florida Chemical Company (FCC), one of the world s largest producers of citrus oils and ingredients; and The Ziegler Group (Ziegler), a leading European provider of natural citrus flavor ingredients. In January 2020, ADM acquired Yerbalatina Phytoactives (Yerbalatina), a natural plant-based extracts and ingredients manufacturer. Other Other includes the Company s remaining operations as described below. ADM Investor Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a registered futures commission merchant and a clearing member of all principal commodities exchanges in the U.S. ADM Investor Services International, Limited, a member of several derivative and commodity exchanges and clearing houses in Europe, ADMIS Singapore Pte. Limited, a clearing member of the Singapore exchange, and ADMIS Hong Kong Limited, are wholly owned subsidiaries of ADM offering brokerage services in Europe and Asia. Insurance activities include Agrinational Insurance Company (Agrinational) and its subsidiaries. Agrinational, a wholly owned subsidiary of ADM, provides insurance coverage for certain property, casualty, marine, credit, and other miscellaneous risks of the Company. Agrinational also participates in certain third-party reinsurance arrangements. ADM Crop Risk Services, a wholly owned subsidiary engaged in the selling and servicing of crop insurance policies to farmers, was sold on May 1, 2017 to Validus Holdings, a global group of insurance and reinsurance companies. Corporate In December 2019, the Company sold its 43.7% interest in Compagnie Industrielle et Financiere des Produits Amylaces SA (Luxembourg) and affiliates (CIP), a joint venture that targets investments in food, feed ingredients, and bioproducts businesses. 6 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Methods of Distribution The Company s products are distributed mainly in bulk from processing plants or storage facilities directly to customers facilities. The Company has developed a comprehensive transportation capability to efficiently move both commodities and processed products virtually anywhere in the world. The Company owns or leases a significant portion of the trucks, trailers, railroad tank and hopper cars, river barges, towboats, and ocean-going vessels used to transport the Company s products to its customers. Concentration of Revenues by Product The following products accounted for 10% or more of revenues for the following periods: % of Revenues Year Ended December 31 2019 2018 2017 Soybeans 16% 16% 17% Soybean Meal 13% 14% 13% Corn 12% 12% 10% Status of New Products The Company continues to expand the size and global reach of its business through the development of new products. Acquisitions, especially in the Nutrition segment, expand the Company s ability to unlock the potential of nature and serve customers evolving and expanding nutritional needs through its offering of natural flavor and ingredient products. The Company does not expect any individual new product to have a significant impact on the Company s revenues in 2020. Source and Availability of Raw Materials A significant majority of the Company s raw materials are agricultural commodities. In addition, the Company sources specific fruits, vegetables, and nuts for extracts to make flavors and colors. In any single year, the availability and price of these commodities are subject to factors such as changes in weather conditions, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops. The Company s raw materials are procured from thousands of growers, grain elevators, and wholesale merchants in North America, South America, Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), Asia, and Australia, pursuant primarily to short-term (less than one year) agreements or on a spot basis. The Company is not dependent upon any particular grower, elevator, or merchant as a source for its raw materials. Trademarks, Brands, Recipes, and other Intellectual Property The Company owns trademarks, brands, recipes, and other intellectual property including patents, with a net book value of $948 million as of December 31, 2019. The Company does not consider any segment of its business to be dependent upon any single or group of trademarks, brands, recipes, or other intellectual property. Seasonality, Working Capital Needs, and Significant Customers Since the Company is widely diversified in global agribusiness markets, there are no material seasonal fluctuations in overall global processing volumes and the sale and distribution of its products and services. There is a degree of seasonality in the growing cycles, procurement, and transportation of the Company s principal raw materials: oilseeds, corn, wheat, and other grains. 7 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) The prices of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly, directly affect the Company s working capital requirements. Because the Company has a higher portion of its operations in the northern hemisphere, principally North America and Europe, relative to the southern hemisphere, primarily South America, inventory levels typically peak after the northern hemisphere fall harvest and are generally lower during the northern hemisphere summer months. Working capital requirements have historically trended with inventory levels. No material part of the Company s business is dependent upon a single customer or very few customers. The Company has seasonal financing arrangements with farmers in certain countries around the world. Typically, advances on these financing arrangements occur during the planting season and are repaid at harvest. Competition The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates based principally on price, foreign exchange rates, quality, global supply, and alternative products, some of which are made from different raw materials than those utilized by the Company. Given the commodity-based nature of many of its businesses, the Company, on an ongoing basis, focuses on managing unit costs and improving efficiency through technology improvements, productivity enhancements, and regular evaluation of the Company s asset portfolio. Research and Development Research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2019 , net of reimbursements of government grants, was $154 million . The Company s laboratories and technical innovation centers around the world enhance its ability to interact with customers globally, not only to provide flavors, but also to support the sales of other food ingredients. The acquisition of Wild Flavors in October 2014 approximately doubled the number of scientists and technicians in research and development. Since that time, additional laboratories have been added, including food beverages applications laboratories in Fort Collins, Colorado, and Bergamo, Italy as well as expanded laboratories in Decatur, Illinois and Shanghai, China. The Company expanded its human health and nutrition portfolio in February 2017 with the acquisition of a controlling interest in Biopolis SL (Biopolis), a leading provider of probiotics and genomic services. Biopolis provides genomic sequencing capabilities for the Company's customers as well as for its internal use. Biopolis also has high through-put biological functionality testing capabilities that can be used to discover new probiotics and nutraceuticals. In January 2018, the Company announced a joint development agreement with Vland Biotech to develop and commercialize enzymes for animal feed. In April 2018, the Company opened its new enzyme development laboratory in Davis, California to advance the research and development of feed enzyme as well as enzymes for internal use. In August 2018, the Company further expanded its probiotics business with the acquisition of Probiotics International Limited. With the acquisition of Neovia in early 2019, ADM further expanded its R D capabilities in Animal Nutrition, globally. In December 2019, the Company opened a new Animal Nutrition Technology Center in Decatur, Illinois, to further expand its animal nutrition capabilities to support customer innovation in pet and aqua food production in North America. ADM Ventures, which was launched by the Company in 2016, continues to select high-potential, new product development projects from within its business units. The first internal venture funded project, a new sweetener, has been fully commercialized and is being sold in the United States by our Carbohydrate Solutions team. Through the acquisition of Neovia, ADM Ventures further expanded its equity investments in promising, early-stage start-up companies from three to six, and is looking at several others in which the Company may choose to invest. The Company is continuing to invest in research to develop a broad range of sustainable materials with an objective to produce key intermediate materials that serve as a platform for producing a variety of sustainable packaging products. Conversion technologies include utilizing expertise in both fermentation and catalysis. The Company s current portfolio includes products that are in the early development phase and those that are close to pilot plant demonstration. The Company s project with DuPont to develop sustainable packaging solutions with improved barrier properties has progressed to a pilot production facility that opened in April 2018. This facility provides samples for customers as well as engineering data for a full-scale plant. In 2019, the Company announced a joint venture with LG Chem, Ltd. to develop biobased acrylic acid using ingredients from the Company's corn processing. Acrylic acid is a key element required in the manufacture of superabsorbent polymers used in a range of hygiene products, including diapers. 8 Item 1. BUSINESS (Continued) Environmental Compliance During the year ended December 31, 2019 , the Company spent $48 million specifically to improve equipment, facilities, and programs for pollution control and compliance with the requirements of various environmental agencies. There have been no material effects upon the earnings and competitive position of the Company resulting from compliance with applicable laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. A number of jurisdictions where the Company has operations have implemented or are in the process of implementing carbon pricing programs or regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including, but not limited to, the U.S., Canada, Mexico, the E.U. and its member states, and China. The Company's operations located in countries with effective and applicable carbon pricing and regulatory programs currently meet their obligations in this regard with no significant impact on the earnings and competitive position of the Company. The Company s business could be affected in the future by additional global, regional, national, and local regulation, pricing of greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change legislation, regulation or agreements. It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation, regulations or agreements. Potential consequences of new obligations could include increased energy, transportation, raw material, and administrative costs, and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment. Number of Employees The number of full-time employees of the Company was approximately 38,100 at December 31, 2019 and 31,600 at December 31, 2018 . The net increase in the number of full-time employees is primarily related to acquisitions net of the early retirement and reorganization initiatives. Available Information The Company s website is http://www.adm.com. ADM's annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K; directors and officers Forms 3, 4, and 5; and amendments to those reports, if any, are available, free of charge, through its website, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company's Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the written charters of the Audit, Compensation/Succession, Nominating/Corporate Governance, Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility, and Executive Committees are also available through its website. References to the Company's website address in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. The SEC maintains a website which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file information electronically with the SEC. The SEC s website is http://www.sec.gov.