Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 81 Item 9B. Other Information 85 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 85 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11. Executive Compensation 88 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 88 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 88 Signatures 94 2 Part I Item 1. Business CORPORATE BACKGROUND General In 1949, our founders established ADP to shape the world of work with a simple, innovative idea: help clients focus on their business by solving their payroll challenges. Today, we are one of the world s leading global technology companies providing comprehensive cloud-based human capital management (HCM) solutions that unite HR, payroll, talent, time, tax and benefits administration. Our unmatched experience, expertise, insights and cutting-edge technology have transformed HCM from an administrative challenge to a strategic business advantage. Tailored to meet the needs of businesses of all sizes, we help them work smarter today so they can have more success tomorrow. We serve over 990,000 clients and pay over 39 million workers in 140 countries and territories. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADP. When we refer to we, us, our, ADP, or the Company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 3 BUSINESS OVERVIEW ADP s Mission As data, digital technology, globalization, new business models and other significant events and disruptions reshape the way people work, our mission is to power organizations with insightful solutions that meet the changing needs of our clients and their workers. Our HCM technology, industry and compliance expertise and data insights deliver measurable results and peace-of-mind, and contribute to an engaged, productive workforce. Our leading technology and commitment to service excellence are at the core of our relationship with each one of our clients, whether it's a small, mid-sized or large organization operating in one or multiple countries around the world. We are always designing better ways to work through cutting-edge products, premium services and exceptional experiences that enable people to reach their full potential. ADP s Strategy Our Strategic Pillars. Our business strategy is based on three strategic pillars, which are designed to position us as the global market leader in HCM technology and services: G row a complete suite of cloud-based HCM solutions (HCM Solutions). We design cloud-based software and offer comprehensive solutions that assist employers of all types and sizes in managing the entire worker spectrum and employment cycle from full-time to freelancer and from hire to retire. Grow and scale our market-leading HR Outsourcing solutions (HRO Solutions). We offer comprehensive HRO solutions in which we provide complete management solutions for HR administration, payroll administration, talent management, employee benefits, benefits administration, employer liability management, and other HCM and employee benefits functions. Leverage our global presence to offer clients HCM solutions wherever they do business (Global Solutions). We are expanding our international HCM and HRO businesses, comprised of our established local, in-country solutions and our market-leading, cloud-based multi-country solutions. With a large and growing addressable market, we are executing on our strategic pillars by focusing on the following priorities: Investing in our world-class and next-gen platforms that are built for the future of work, and providing market-leading product and technology solutions that solve the needs of our clients today, anticipate their needs of tomorrow and provide them with valuable data insights and guidance that help them understand their workforce and how they compare to their industry peers. Continuing to offer the broadest suite of complete solutions, while identifying and pursuing new and additional opportunities to expand and build on our solutions to ensure that our clients and their workers can navigate the ever-changing and challenging world of work. Enhancing our powerful distribution with impactful data, digital technology and marketing investments. Accelerating our digital transformation and leveraging technology to simplify and personalize how we engage with our clients and how their workers engage with us delivering solutions wherever they are, whether at work or on the go. Providing our clients with comprehensive HR and payroll capabilities that drive productivity and enable compliance globally through our world-class platforms and multi-national solutions. Our footprint and scale in the HCM industry is unmatched. Together with leading technology and deep in-country compliance expertise, we are strongly positioned to continue to drive sustainable long-term growth and value by delivering solutions to clients of all sizes and their workers, wherever they do business. 4 Innovation at ADP Innovation is in our DNA. For over 70 years, we have reimagined the world of work by designing cutting-edge products, robust services and exceptional experiences that touch millions of people s lives daily. We pioneered HCM automation, HCM in the cloud, mobile HCM and a digital HCM marketplace. As the business, data and digital technology landscape rapidly evolves, what work means, how and where it gets done, and how workers are paid is changing as well. We innovate by anticipating the future of work, the future of HCM and the future of pay in order to meet the evolving and unique needs of our clients and their workers. Our next-gen platforms are designed for the ever-changing world of work. Built from the ground up to be cloud-native, global, scalable and secure, our next-gen platforms provide our clients with the flexibility they need to address today s and tomorrow s workplace challenges. Our award winning next-gen HCM platform enables our clients to personalize their experience based on their needs. Built for dynamic teams, our next-gen HCM platform provides our clients with visibility into where work actually happens rather than into rigid organizational hierarchies and worker types. And, by deploying low-code applications, clients can easily tailor the solution to their needs. Our next-gen payroll solution is a global solution that supports workers of all types and enables real-time, transparent, continuous payroll calculations. This next-gen payroll solution also unlocks flexible pay choices for our clients so they can provide the best pay experience for their workers. As the regulatory environment rapidly changes, making it harder for companies to navigate the complexities of payroll, our next-gen payroll solution s built-in compliance capabilities enable our clients to focus on managing their business. Last year, we launched the Roll by ADP mobile-first solution reimagining how small businesses do payroll. This groundbreaking payroll solution utilizes an AI-powered chat interface to turn traditional payroll management into an intuitive conversation that can complete payroll in under a minute. Leveraging ADP s long-standing payroll expertise and data security, small business owners can download and self-purchase Roll and run payroll anywhere, anytime, quickly and compliantly, with no experience or training needed. The conversational experience runs off simple chat prompts such as Run my payroll, offering a frictionless experience that also allows clients to confidently handle compliance matters like tax filing and deposits. The size and breadth of our client base provides us an unrivaled HCM dataset, and we are focused on converting our data advantage into our client s data advantage. We are doing this by differentiating our HCM solutions with ADP s unmatched dataset that provides clients with insights that can help drive better decisions, and by continuing to identify and pursue new and additional data-as-a-service opportunities. We are leading this innovation effort with ADP DataCloud, our award-winning ML and workforce analytics platform which is the largest private repository of payroll information available. DataCloud analyzes aggregated, anonymized and timely HCM and compensation data from more than 930,000 organizations across the U.S., powering solutions that provide clients with in-depth workforce and business insights that enable critical HR decisions. ADP DataCloud's Skills Graph, our proprietary data structure, is based on more than 30 million employee records, 65 million resumes and 7 million job postings across more than 20 industries and 500 geographic areas, and extracts, aligns and normalizes key information such as skills, job titles and levels, education and qualifications from non-structured data and infers missing skills and qualifications from context. Skills Graph powers ADP s Candidate Profile Relevancy tool to help score, assess and predict candidates who are the best fit for a job opening, as well as our new Organizational Benchmarking Dashboard which enables companies to decide how best to deploy their workers by comparing organizational metrics like headcount, labor costs and turnover against other similar businesses. We offer similar tools to clients outside the United States, including through our ADP GlobalView and ADP iHCM solutions. ADP s Model-Based Benchmarks, powered by Skills Graph, also extend benchmarks to include compensation for up to 150 million workers. Model-Based Benchmarks are driven by a set of deep learning models that extract patterns and knowledge from millions of payroll records and job profiles to provide accurate information that reflects the reality of the position being shown. ADP s Pay Equity Storyboard combines analytics and benchmarking 5 to help employers better understand potential pay gaps and provide them with real, up-to-date, aggregated and anonymized market data to understand how their compensation for a particular job compares to other similar employers. Insights powered by DataCloud are particularly important with respect to diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) and, as part of our commitment to DEI, we introduced the first-of-its-kind DEI benchmark to help companies assess DEI gaps, track their progress and achieve their goals, bolstering ADP s suite of DEI offerings. It was named a 2021 Top HR Product at the annual HR Technology Conference, marking the seventh consecutive year ADP has been honored for its innovative HCM technology. The solution also earned acclaim in Fast Company s first-ever list of the Next Big Things in Tech, which highlights tech breakthroughs that promise to define the future of their industries. In harnessing the power of data through ML, ADP recognizes the importance of accountability, transparency, privacy, explainability and governance, and in furtherance of those goals has established an active AI Data Ethics Committee, comprised of both industry leaders and ADP experts, which advises on emerging industry trends and concerns and provides guidance with respect to compliance with the principles that ADP should follow while developing products, systems and applications that involve artificial intelligence, ML and data. Our innovative Wisely payment offerings support an employer s need for flexible payment solutions in order to meet the individual needs of its workers. Wisely Pay is a network-branded payroll card that comes with a digital account that enables employers to pay their employees, and enables employees to access their payroll funds immediately, including via a network member bank or an ATM, make purchases or pay bills, deposit checks, load additional funds onto the card, such as tax refunds, and transfer funds to a bank account in the United States. As we also seek to provide employee financial solutions, we offer Wisely Direct, a network-branded general purpose reloadable card that comes with a digital account, which provides similar features and functionality as Wisely Pay but is offered directly to consumers. Our digital card offerings are true banking alternatives that feature innovative optional services such as savings envelopes, spend-tracking, cash-back rewards and support for digital wallets. Always Designing for People isn t just a tag line innovation is also about putting our clients first by giving them and their workers a faster, smarter and easier user experience (UX) that was designed with and for them. With a modern look and feel based on our brand new design system, our new UX is powered by data and ML and provides intuitive workflows that are available when and where our clients and their workers need it. We are investing in UX alignment and simplification across our strategic products and solutions, with new UX releases for RUN Powered by ADP , MyADP , ADP Mobile Solutions and, most recently, ADP Workforce Now . In addition, our ADP Mobile app simplifies how work gets done by enabling clients to process their payroll anywhere, and giving millions of their employees worldwide convenient access to their payroll and HR information in 29 languages. We have also given third-party developers and system integrators access to some of our platforms API 6 (application programming interface) libraries through ADP Marketplace in order to enable secure data sharing between ADP and other solutions across the HR and business ecosystem. ADP Marketplace is a digital HR storefront where clients can discover the best-fit apps for their industry; browse by solution-types such as learning management, financial wellness, time and attendance, and benefits administration; or connect HR software they already use. The pre-built integrations help clients simplify their processes, create a single system of record, and reduce data errors, freeing up time and resources to focus on growing their business and taking care of their people. With more than 650 apps and integrations to choose from, ADP Marketplace offers clients a modern HR experience that they can tailor to their specific needs. Helping Clients and their Employees Emerge Stronger from the COVID-19 Global Pandemic The COVID-19 global pandemic created extremely challenging circumstances for our clients and their employees and, throughout, our priority has been to help them navigate these challenges. As they evolved their business models and operations to address changes in the economy and workplace, we provided and continue to provide trusted solutions, data and expertise. As COVID-19 restrictions eased, employers returned to the workplace and designed new policies reflecting the demand for remote and hybrid work models, and we supported their efforts by providing tools that helped them manage compliance confidently, achieve business continuity, and support employee wellness and engagement, including our award-winning Return to Workplace dashboard powered by ADP DataCloud. The dashboard uses data analytics and employee surveys to allow clients to monitor workforce trends including availability, health attestation results, and worker readiness and sentiment toward returning to the workplace. As the way people work is reshaped, our innovative technology, data and expertise make ADP the partner that clients trust as they adapt to the new world of work and create workplaces where everyone can thrive. Reportable Segments Our two reportable business segments are Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization ( PEO ). For financial data by segment and by geographic area, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employer Services . Our Employer Services segment serves clients ranging from single-employee small businesses to large enterprises with tens of thousands of employees around the world, offering a comprehensive range of technology-based HCM solutions, including our strategic, cloud-based platforms, and HRO (other than PEO) solutions. These solutions address critical client needs and include: Payroll Services, Benefits Administration, Talent Management, HR Management, Workforce Management, Compliance Services, Insurance Services and Retirement Services. Professional Employer Organization . Our PEO business, called ADP TotalSource , provides clients with comprehensive employment administration outsourcing solutions through a relationship in which employees who work for a client (referred to as worksite employees ) are co-employed by us and the client. Our reportable segments are based on the way that management reviews the performance of, and makes decisions about, our business. Our strategic pillars represent the strategic growth areas for our business. The results of our business related to products and solutions within the HCM Solutions pillar, the HRO Solutions pillar (other than PEO products and solutions) and the Global Solutions pillar are contained within our Employer Services segment. The results of our business within the HRO Solutions pillar related to our PEO products and solutions are contained within our PEO segment. 7 PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS In order to serve the unique needs of our clients and their diverse types of businesses and workforce models, we provide a range of solutions which businesses of all types and sizes and across geographies can use to recruit, pay, manage, and retain their workforce. We address these broad market needs with our cloud-based strategic platforms: RUN Powered by ADP , serving over 800,000 small businesses; ADP Workforce Now , serving over 80,000 mid-sized and large businesses across our strategic pillars; and ADP Vantage HCM and our next-gen HCM platform, serving large enterprise businesses. All of these solutions can be combined with ADP SmartCompliance to address the increasingly broad and complex needs of employers. Outside the United States, we address the needs of over 65,000 clients with premier global solutions consisting of in-country solutions and multinational offerings, including ADP GlobalView , ADP Celergo /Streamline and ADP iHCM. Strategic Cloud-based Products and Solutions Across Client Size and Geography HCM Solutions Integrated HCM Solutions. Our premier suite of HCM products offers complete solutions that assist employers of all types and sizes in all stages of the employment cycle, from recruitment to retirement. Our suite of HCM solutions are powered by our strategic, cloud-based, award-winning platforms, including: RUN Powered by ADP combines a software platform for small business payroll, HR management and tax compliance administration, with 24/7 service and support from our team of small business experts. RUN Powered by ADP also integrates with other ADP solutions, such as workforce management, workers compensation insurance premium payment plans, and retirement plan administration systems. ADP Workforce Now is a flexible HCM solution used across mid-sized and large businesses in North America to manage their employees. More businesses use ADP Workforce Now in North America than any other HCM solution designed for both mid-sized and large businesses. ADP Vantage HCM is a solution for large enterprises in the United States. It offers a comprehensive set of HCM capabilities within a single solution that unifies the five major areas of HCM: HR management, benefits administration, payroll services, time and attendance management, and talent management. Payroll Services . We pay over 25 million (approximately 1 out of every 6) workers in the United States. We offer flexible payroll services to employers of all sizes, including the preparation of employee paychecks, pay statements, supporting journals, summaries, and management reports. 8 We provide employers with a wide range of payroll options, including using mobile technology, connecting their major enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) applications with ADP s payroll services or outsourcing their entire payroll process to us. Employers can choose a variety of payroll payment options including ADP s electronic wage payment and, in the United States, payroll card solutions and digital accounts. On behalf of our clients in the United States, we prepare and file federal, state and local payroll tax returns, and quarterly and annual Social Security, Medicare, and federal, state and local income tax withholding reports. Benefits Administration. In the United States, we provide powerful and agile solutions for employee benefits administration. These options include health and welfare administration services, leave administration services, insurance carrier enrollment services, employee communication services, and dependent verification services. In addition, ADP benefits administration solutions offer employers a simple and flexible cloud-based eligibility and enrollment system that provides their employees with tools, communications, and other resources they need to understand their benefits options and make informed choices. Talent Management. ADP s Talent Management solutions simplify and improve the talent acquisition, management and activation process, from recruitment to ongoing employee engagement and development. Employers can also outsource their internal recruitment function to ADP. Our solutions provide performance, learning, succession and compensation management tools that help employers align goals to outcomes, and enable managers to identify and mitigate potential retention risks. Our talent activation solutions include StandOut powered by ADP, which provides team leaders with data and insights to drive employee engagement and leadership development, which in turn help drive employee performance. Workforce Management. ADP s Workforce Management offers a range of solutions to over 110,000 employers of all sizes, including time and attendance, absence management and scheduling tools. Time and attendance solutions include time capture via online timesheets, timeclocks with badge readers, biometrics and touch-screens, telephone/interactive voice response, and mobile smartphones and tablets. These tools automate the calculation and reporting of hours worked, helping employers prepare payroll, control costs and overtime, and manage compliance with wage and hour regulations. Absence management tools include accrued time off, attendance policy and leave case management modules. Our employee scheduling tools simplify visibility, offer shift-swapping capabilities and can assist managers with optimizing schedules to boost productivity and minimize under- and over-staffing. We also offer data analytics and reporting tools that provide clients with insights, benchmarks and performance metrics so they can better manage their workforce. In addition, industry-specific modules are available for labor forecasting, budgeting, activity and task management, grant and project tracking, and tips management. Compliance Solutions. ADP s Compliance Solutions provides industry-leading expertise in payment compliance and employment-related tax matters that complement the payroll, HR and ERP systems of our clients. In our fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, in the United States, we processed and delivered more than 74 million employee year-end tax statements, and moved more than $2.7 trillion in client funds to taxing and other agencies and to our clients employees and other payees. ADP SmartCompliance. In the United States, ADP SmartCompliance integrates client data delivered from our integrated HCM platforms or third-party payroll, HR and financial systems into a single, cloud-based solution. Our specialized teams use the data to work with clients to help them manage changing and complex regulatory landscapes and improve business processes. ADP SmartCompliance includes HCM-related compliance solutions such as Employment Tax and Wage Payments, as well as Tax Credits, Health Compliance, Wage Garnishments, Employment Verifications, Unemployment Claims and W-2 Management. 9 ADP SmartCompliance Employment Tax. As part of our full-service employment tax services in the United States, we prepare and file employment tax returns on our clients behalf and, in connection with these stand-alone services, collect employment taxes from clients and remit these taxes to more than 8,000 federal, state and local tax agencies. ADP SmartCompliance Wage Payments. In the United States, we offer compliant pay solutions for today's workforce, including electronic payroll disbursement options such as payroll cards, digital accounts and direct deposit, as well as traditional payroll checks, which can be integrated with clients ERP and payroll systems. Human Resources Management. Commonly referred to as Human Resource Information Systems, ADP s Human Resources Management Solutions provide employers with a single system of record to support the entry, validation, maintenance, and reporting of data required for effective HR management, including employee names, addresses, job types, salary grades, employment history, and educational background. Insurance Services. ADP s Insurance Services business, in conjunction with our licensed insurance agency, Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc., facilitates access in the United States to workers compensation and group health insurance for small and mid-sized clients through a variety of insurance carriers. Our automated Pay-by-Pay premium payment program calculates and collects workers compensation premium payments each pay period, simplifying this task for employers. Retirement Services. ADP Retirement Services helps employers in the United States administer various types of retirement plans, such as traditional and Roth 401(k)s, profit sharing (including new comparability), SIMPLE and SEP IRAs, and executive deferred compensation plans. ADP Retirement Services offers a full service 401(k) plan program which provides recordkeeping and administrative services, combined with an investment platform offered through ADP Broker-Dealer, Inc. that gives our clients employees access to a wide range of non-proprietary investment options and online tools to monitor the performance of their investments. In addition, ADP Retirement Services offers investment management services to retirement plans through ADP Strategic Plan Services, LLC, an SEC registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. ADP Retirement Services also offers trustee services through a third party. HRO Solutions As a leader in the growing HR Outsourcing market, we partner with our clients to offer a full range of seamless technology and service solutions for HR administration, workforce management, payroll services, benefits administration and talent management. From small businesses to enterprises with thousands of employees, our clients gain proven technology and processes and robust service and support. Whether a client chooses our PEO or other HR Outsourcing solutions, we offer solutions tailored to a client s specific needs and preferences designed to meet the client s needs today, and as its business and needs evolve. Professional Employer Organization. ADP TotalSource is enabled by ADP Workforce Now and offers small and mid-sized businesses a comprehensive HR outsourcing solution through a co-employment model. With a PEO, both ADP and the client have a co-employment relationship with the client s employees. We assume certain employer responsibilities such as payroll processing and tax filings, and the client maintains control of its business and all management responsibilities. ADP TotalSource clients are able to offer their employees services and benefits on par with those of much larger enterprises, without the need to staff a full HR department. With our cloud-based HCM software at the core, we serve more than 15,500 clients and 10 more than 700,000 worksite employees in all 50 U.S. states. ADP TotalSource is the largest PEO certified by the Internal Revenue Service as meeting the requirements to operate as a Certified Professional Employer Organization under the Internal Revenue Code. As a full-service PEO, ADP TotalSource provides a broad range of HR administrative services, including payroll and payroll tax, employer compliance, HR guidance, employee benefits and benefit administration, talent strategies, and workers compensation insurance including risk and claims management. Some of the rich offerings available through ADP TotalSource to address today s workplace challenges include: Better Employee Benefits: Through our PEO, many of our clients discover that they can offer a richer overall benefits package than they could afford to offer on their own. We give clients access to a patented approach to help them target the best benefit plan offerings for their employees. They can compare plan options and make more educated decisions about what plan offering is best for their company and budget. In addition, ADP TotalSource integrates with our award-winning ADP Marketplace to further tailor offerings, such as helping employees pay off student loans with payroll contributio