Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 82 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 82 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 89 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 89 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 89 Signatures 94 Part I Item 1. Business CORPORATE BACKGROUND General We were founded in 1949 on an innovative idea: to help business owners focus on core business activities by freeing them up from certain non-core tasks such as payroll. Today, we are one of the world s leading providers of cloud-based human capital management (HCM) solutions to employers, offering solutions to businesses of all sizes, whether they have simple or complex needs. We serve over 860,000 clients in 140 countries and territories. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADP. When we refer to we, us, our, ADP, or the Company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. BUSINESS OVERVIEW ADP s Mission As digital technology, globalization, new business models and other significant events and disruptions reshape the way people work, our mission is to power organizations with insightful solutions that meet the changing needs of our clients and their employees. Our HCM technology, industry and compliance expertise and data insights deliver measurable results, peace-of-mind and an engaged, productive workforce. Our leading technology and commitment to service excellence is at the core of our relationship with each one of our clients, whether it's a small, mid-sized or large organization operating in one or multiple countries around the world. We are constantly designing better ways to work through cutting-edge products, premium services and exceptional experiences that enable people to reach their full potential. ADP s Strategy Our Strategic Pillars. Our business strategy is based on three strategic pillars, which are designed to position us as the global market leader in HCM technology and services: G row a complete suite of cloud-based HCM solutions (HCM Solutions). We develop cloud-based software and offer comprehensive solutions that assist employers of all types and sizes in managing the entire worker spectrum and employment cycle from full-time to freelancer and from hire to retire. Grow and scale our market-leading HR Outsourcing solutions (HRO Solutions). We offer comprehensive HRO solutions in which we provide complete management solutions for HR administration, payroll administration, talent management, employee benefits, benefits administration, employer liability management, and other HCM and employee benefits functions. Leverage our global presence to offer clients HCM solutions wherever they do business (Global Solutions). We are expanding our international HCM and HRO businesses, comprised of our established local, in-country software solutions and our market-leading, cloud-based multi-country solutions. With a large and growing addressable market, we are strongly positioned to continue delivering sustainable long-term value across our strategic pillars. We are doing this by successfully executing on product and technology innovation, providing industry-leading service and compliance expertise, and enhancing our world-class distribution. We are focused on, and investing in, our world-class and next-gen platforms that are built for the future of work, and on providing market-leading HCM product and technology solutions that solve the needs of our clients today, and anticipate the needs of our clients tomorrow. Our world-class platforms and multi-national solutions provide our clients with comprehensive HR and payroll capabilities that drive productivity and enable compliance globally. Our cloud-based next-gen platforms are built to be person-centric, serve all worker types and support flexible work and on-demand pay, and deliver seamless global capabilities to dynamic, team-based organizations. Digital technology is transforming today's workplace and workforce. We are accelerating our own digital transformation and leveraging digital technology to change how we engage with our clients and how their workers engage with us and an important part of this includes delivering solutions wherever they are, whether at work or on the go. We offer the broadest suite of complete HRO solutions coupled with dedicated and strategic HR services and deep local expertise. These offerings can be tailored to meet the increasingly complex and sophisticated needs of our clients and their workers. Our global footprint in the HCM industry is unmatched and, together with world-class technology and deep in-country compliance expertise, we are strongly positioned to continue to drive growth by delivering solutions to clients of all sizes wherever they do business. Innovation at ADP Innovation is in our DNA. For over 70 years, we have reimagined the world of work by designing cutting-edge products, robust services and exceptional experiences that touch millions of people s lives daily. We pioneered automation in HCM, HCM in the cloud, mobile HCM and the establishment of an HCM marketplace. As the business and digital technology landscape rapidly evolves, what work means, how and where it gets done, and how workers are paid is changing as well. We innovate by anticipating the future of work, the future of HCM and the future of pay in order to meet the evolving and unique needs of our clients and their workers. Our next-gen platforms are built for the ever-changing world of work. Designed from the ground up to be cloud-native, global, scalable and secure, our next-gen platforms provide our clients with the flexibility they need to address today s and tomorrow s workplace challenges, regardless of their size and complexity. Our next-gen HCM platform enables our clients to personalize their experience based on their needs. Built for dynamic teams, our next-gen HCM platform provides our clients with visibility into where work actually happens rather than into rigid organizational hierarchies and worker types. With our next-gen HCM platform, we received the Awesome New Tech award at the 2019 HR Technology Conference for a record-breaking fifth straight year. With our HR your way approach, clients can easily tailor the solution to their needs by deploying low-code applications. Our next-gen payroll solution supports workers of all types and enables real-time, transparent, continuous payroll calculations. Our next-gen payroll solution also unlocks flexible pay choices for our clients so they can provide the best pay experience for their workers. Compliance capabilities are built-in, enabling our clients to focus on managing their business. Our next-gen platforms are designed to meet the needs of our clients in an ever-changing world of work. Today, big data provides a real competitive advantage. That is why we are accelerating the deployment of machine learning (ML) against our unmatched HCM dataset the same HCM dataset that drives our renowned ADP National Employment Report . We are leading this innovation effort with ADP DataCloud, an award-winning workforce analytics solution that provides clients with in-depth workforce and business insights that enables critical HR decisions. ADP s Skills Graph is ADP s proprietary data structure that is based on more than 30 million employee records, 50 million resumes and 5 million job postings across more than 20 industries and 500 geographic areas. Skills Graph extracts, aligns and normalizes key information such as skills, job titles, job levels, education and qualifications from non-structured data and infers missing skills and qualifications from context. Skills Graph powers ADP s candidate relevancy tool to help score, assess and predict candidates that are the best fit for a job opening, as well as our new Organizational Benchmarking tool that assesses organizational structure and workforce investments. In addition, we have extended our award-winning HR and compensation benchmarks to include non-traditional elements such as tips, commissions and benefits plans. With the new capability of ADP s Model-Based Benchmarks powered by Skills Graph, we also extend benchmarks to include compensation for up to 150 million working people. Model-Based Benchmarks are driven by a set of deep learning models that extract patterns and knowledge from millions of payroll records and job profiles to provide accurate information that reflects the reality of the position being shown. ADP s award-winning Pay Equity Explorer combines analytics and benchmarking to help employers better understand potential pay gaps and provide them with real, up-to-date, aggregated and anonymized market data to understand how their compensation for a particular job compares to other similar employers. These innovative offerings combine HR expertise and data transparency in a way that connects HR to the bottom line. In harnessing the power of big data through ML, ADP recognizes the importance of accountability, transparency, privacy, explainability and governance, and in furtherance of those goals has established an active AI Data Ethics Committee, comprised of both industry leaders and ADP experts, which advises on emerging industry trends and concerns and provides guidance with respect to compliance with the principles that ADP should follow while developing products, systems and applications that involve artificial intelligence, ML and big data. With WorkMarket, a cloud-based workforce management solution, we are the first HCM provider with robust freelancer management functionality and reporting insights, enabling clients to manage their extended workforce effectively. Wisely is our latest advancement in the future of pay. Our innovative payment offerings support an employer s need for flexible payment solutions in order to meet the individual needs of its workers. The Wisely Pay payroll card is a network-branded payroll card and digital account that enables employers to pay their employees, and enables employees to access their payroll funds immediately, including via a network member bank or an ATM, make purchases or pay bills, load additional funds onto the card, such as tax refunds and military pensions, and transfer funds to a bank account in the United States. We also offer Wisely Direct, a network-branded general purpose reloadable card and digital account, which provides similar features and functionality as Wisely Pay but is offered directly to consumers. Our digital card offerings are true banking alternatives that feature innovative services such as savings, budgeting, digital wallet and other personal financial management features. In addition, our mobile apps simplify how work gets done by enabling clients to process their payroll, and giving millions of their employees convenient access to their payroll and HR information around the world and in 28 languages. We have also opened access for developers and system integrators to some of our platforms application programming interface libraries through ADP Marketplace. With ADP Marketplace, clients can integrate employee data from our core services across their other business systems or platforms. This access enables the exchange of client data housed in our databases, and creates a unified HCM ecosystem for clients informed by a single, comprehensive repository of their workforce data. Clients can choose from 445 apps and integrations, allowing them to choose solutions that are tailored to their needs, industry requirements and preferences. Meeting the Needs of Clients and their Employees during the COVID-19 Global Pandemic The COVID-19 global pandemic has created extremely challenging circumstances for our clients and their employees, and our priority has been to provide support that aligns to their key challenges business continuity, compliance and a careful and safe return to the workplace. We quickly developed and provided at no charge reporting capabilities designed to provide clients around the world with data they needed to benefit from legislation providing financial assistance to enable them to stay in business. The Paycheck Protection Program under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act provided forgivable loans to assist employers in continuing their businesses. We were one of the first HCM companies to provide tools and reports that would have enabled our clients to apply for loans of more than $115 billion ultimately helping approximately 400,000 employers apply for this essential assistance. We also provided tools and support to over 47,000 employers in applying for approximately $1.2 billion in tax credits in the U.S. We enabled over 52,000 employers in the U.S. to defer over $27.5 billion in federal employer taxes, and enabled thousands of employers in Canada to reduce payroll federal income tax obligations by more than C$100 million, helping critical funds stay in their hands to keep their people on payroll and their businesses running. To help employers confidently manage compliance, our teams analyzed more than 2,000 legislative updates associated with COVID-19 across the globe in order to provide them with easy to understand and actionable guidance and updated reporting tools. As many employers start to develop strategies for returning to the workplace, we are supporting their efforts by providing our clients at no charge a Return to Work toolkit that includes the following: A Return to Workplace guide that provides worker readiness surveys to assess sentiment toward returning to the workplace and worker health attestations. A Return to Work dashboard powered by ADP DataCloud that uses data analytics to allow clients to monitor workforce trends based on survey results; identify and schedule workers based on availability, location, job title and other attributes; and facilitate contact tracing to help them keep their workforce healthy. The new ADP Time Kiosk that will help employers manage safe levels of occupancy by equipping workers with time attendance tracking without touching a device. As COVID-19 reshapes the way people work and the needs of our clients and their employees change, our teams have swiftly adapted and adjusted workflows to deliver the content, resources and support that employers and their workforce need, when they need it. Our expertise and innovative technology, as well as established financial relationships with our clients, financial institutions and employees, ensure ADP is well positioned to support employers and their workforce through these challenging times and we fully embrace that role. Reportable Segments Our two reportable business segments are Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization ( PEO ). For financial data by segment and by geographic area, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employer Services . Our Employer Services segment serves clients ranging from single-employee small businesses to large enterprises with tens of thousands of employees around the world, offering a comprehensive range of technology-based HCM solutions, including our strategic, cloud-based platforms, and HRO (other than PEO) solutions. These solutions address critical client needs and include: Payroll Services, Benefits Administration, Talent Management, HR Management, Workforce Management, Compliance Services, Insurance Services and Retirement Services. Professional Employer Organization . Our PEO business, called ADP TotalSource , provides clients with comprehensive employment administration outsourcing solutions through a relationship in which employees who work for a client (referred to as worksite employees ) are co-employed by us and the client. Our reportable segments are based on the way that management reviews the performance of, and makes decisions about, our business. Our strategic pillars represent the strategic growth areas for our business. The results of our business related to products and solutions within the HCM Solutions pillar, the HRO Solutions pillar (other than PEO products and solutions) and the Global Solutions pillar are contained within our Employer Services segment. The results of our business within the HRO Solutions pillar related to our PEO products and solutions are contained within our PEO segment. PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS In order to serve the unique needs of diverse types of businesses and workforce models, we provide a range of solutions which businesses of all types and sizes and across geographies can use to recruit, pay, manage, and retain their workforce. We address these broad market needs with our cloud-based strategic platforms: RUN Powered by ADP , serving over 690,000 small businesses; ADP Workforce Now , serving approximately 75,000 mid-sized and large businesses across our strategic pillars; and ADP Vantage HCM , serving over 500 large enterprise businesses. All of these solutions can be combined with ADP SmartCompliance to address the increasingly broad and complex needs of employers. Outside the United States, we address the needs of over 60,000 clients with premier global solutions consisting of local in-country solutions and multinational offerings, including ADP GlobalView , ADP Celergo and ADP Streamline . Strategic Cloud-based Products and Solutions Across Client Size and Geography HCM Solutions Integrated HCM Solutions. Our premier suite of HCM products offers complete solutions that assist employers of all types and sizes in all stages of the employment cycle, from recruitment to retirement. Our suite of HCM solutions are powered by our strategic, cloud-based, award-winning platforms: RUN Powered by ADP combines a software platform for small business payroll, HR management and tax compliance administration, with 24/7 service and support from our team of small business experts. RUN Powered by ADP also integrates with other ADP solutions, such as workforce management, workers compensation insurance premium payment plans, and retirement plan administration systems. ADP Workforce Now is a flexible HCM solution used across mid-sized and large businesses in North America to manage their employees. More businesses use ADP Workforce Now in North America than any other HCM solution designed for both mid-sized and large businesses. ADP Vantage HCM is a solution for large enterprises in the United States. It offers a comprehensive set of HCM capabilities within a single solution that unifies the five major areas of HCM: HR management, benefits administration, payroll services, time and attendance management, and talent management. Payroll Services . We pay approximately 22 million (approximately 1 out of every 6) workers in the United States. We provide flexible payroll services to employers of all sizes, including the preparation of employee paychecks, pay statements, supporting journals, summaries, and management reports. We provide employers with a wide range of payroll options, including using mobile technology, connecting their major enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) applications with ADP s payroll services or outsourcing their entire payroll process to us. Employers can choose a variety of payroll payment options including ADP s electronic wage payment and, in the United States, payroll card solutions and digital accounts. On behalf of our clients in the United States, we prepare and file federal, state and local payroll tax returns, and quarterly and annual Social Security, Medicare, and federal, state and local income tax withholding reports. Benefits Administration. In the United States, we provide powerful and agile solutions for employee benefits administration. These options include health and welfare administration services, leave administration services, insurance carrier enrollment services, employee communication services, and dependent verification services. In addition, ADP benefits administration solutions offer employers a simple and flexible cloud- based eligibility and enrollment system that provides their employees with tools, communications, and other resources they need to understand their benefits options and make informed choices. Talent Management. ADP s Talent Management solutions simplify and improve the talent acquisition, management, and activation process from recruitment to ongoing employee engagement and development. Employers can also outsource their internal recruitment function to ADP. Our solutions provide performance, learning, succession and compensation management tools that help employers align goals to outcomes, and enable managers to identify and mitigate potential retention risks. Our talent activation solutions include ADP s StandOut and Compass solutions, which provide team leaders with data and insights to drive employee engagement and leadership development, which in turn help drive employee performance. Workforce Management. ADP s Workforce Management offers a range of solutions to over 85,000 employers of all sizes, including time and attendance, absence management and scheduling tools. Time and attendance solutions include time capture via online timesheets, timeclocks with badge readers, biometrics and touch-screens, telephone/interactive voice response, and mobile smartphones and tablets. These tools automate the calculation and reporting of hours worked, helping employers prepare payroll, control costs and overtime, and manage compliance with wage and hour regulations. Absence management tools include accrued time off, attendance policy and leave case modules. Our employee scheduling tools simplify visibility, offer shift-swapping capabilities and can assist managers with optimizing schedules to boost productivity and minimize under- and over-staffing. We also offer analytics and reporting tools that provide clients with insights, benchmarks and performance metrics so they can better manage their workforce. In addition, industry-specific modules are available for labor forecasting, budgeting, activity and task management, grant and project tracking, and tips management. Compliance Solutions. ADP s Compliance Solutions provides industry-leading expertise in payment compliance and employment-related tax matters that complement the payroll, HR and ERP systems of its clients. In our fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 , in the United States, we processed and delivered more than 69 million employee year-end tax statements, and moved more than $2.2 trillion in client funds to taxing and other agencies and to our clients employees and other payees. ADP SmartCompliance. In the United States, ADP SmartCompliance integrates client data delivered from our integrated HCM platforms or third-party payroll, HR and financial systems into a single, cloud-based solution. Our specialized teams use the data to work with clients to help them manage changing and complex regulatory landscapes and improve business processes. ADP SmartCompliance includes HCM-related compliance solutions such as Employment Tax and Wage Payments, as well as Tax Credits, Health Compliance, Wage Garnishments, Employment Verifications, Unemployment Claims and W-2 Management. ADP SmartCompliance Employment Tax. As part of our full-service employment tax services in the United States, we prepare and file employment tax returns on our clients behalf and, in connection with these stand-alone services, collect employment taxes from clients and remit these taxes to more than 8,000 federal, state and local tax agencies. ADP SmartCompliance Wage Payments. In the United States, we offer compliant pay solutions for today's workforce, including electronic payroll disbursement options such as payroll cards, digital accounts and direct deposit, as well as traditional payroll checks, which can be integrated with clients ERP and payroll systems. Human Resources Management. Commonly referred to as Human Resource Information Systems, ADP s Human Resources Management Solutions provide employers with a single system of record to support the entry, validation, maintenance, and reporting of data required for effective HR management, including employee names, addresses, job types, salary grades, employment history, and educational background. Insurance Services. ADP s Insurance Services business, in conjunction with our licensed insurance agency, Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc., facilitates access in the United States to workers compensation and group health insurance for small and mid-sized clients through a variety of insurance carriers. Our automated Pay-by-Pay premium payment program calculates and collects workers compensation premium payments each pay period, simplifying this task for employers. Retirement Services. ADP Retirement Services helps employers in the United States administer various types of retirement plans, such as traditional and Roth 401(k)s, profit sharing (including new comparability), SIMPLE and SEP IRAs, and executive deferred compensation plans. ADP Retirement Services offers a full service 401(k) plan program which provides recordkeeping and administrative services, combined with an investment platform offered through ADP Broker-Dealer, Inc. that gives our clients employees access to a wide range of non-proprietary investment options and online tools to monitor the performance of their investments. In addition, ADP Retirement Services offers investment management services to retirement plans through ADP Strategic Plan Services, LLC, an SEC registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. ADP Retirement Services also offers trustee services through a third party. HRO Solutions As a leader in the growing HR Outsourcing market, we partner with our clients to offer a full range of seamless technology and service solutions for HR administration, workforce management, payroll services, benefits administration and talent management. From small businesses to enterprises with thousands of employees, with HRO our clients gain proven technology and processes and robust service and support. Whether a client chooses our PEO or other HR Outsourcing solutions, we offer solutions tailored to a client s specific needs and preferences designed to meet the client s needs today, and as its business and needs evolve. Professional Employer Organization. ADP TotalSource, our PEO business that is enabled by ADP Workforce Now, offers small and mid-sized businesses a comprehensive HR outsourcing solution through a co-employment model. With a PEO, both ADP and the client have a co-employment relationship with the client s employees. We assume certain employer responsibilities such as payroll processing and tax filings, and the client maintains control of its business and all management responsibilities. ADP TotalSource clients are able to offer their employees services and benefits on par with those of much larger enterprises, without the need to staff an enterprise-size HR department. With our cloud-based HCM software at the core, we serve more than 13,000 clients and more than 530,000 worksite employees in all 50 U.S. states. ADP TotalSource is the largest PEO certified by the Internal Revenue Service as meeting the requirements to operate as a Certified Professional Employer Organization under the Internal Revenue Code. As a full-service PEO, ADP TotalSource provides complete HR management and core administrative services while the client continues to direct the day-to-day job-related duties of the employees. With constantly changing business regulations, global economies and technology, our clients benefit from partnering with ADP TotalSource to help them protect their business and drive growth and success. Some of the rich offerings available through ADP TotalSource to address today s workplace challenges include: Better Benefits: Through our PEO, many of our clients discover that they can offer a richer overall benefits package than they could afford to offer on their own. We give clients access to a new patent-pending approach to help them target the best benefit plan offerings for their employees. They can compare plan options and make more educated decisions about what plan offering is best for their company and budget. In addition, ADP TotalSource integrates with our award-winning ADP Marketplace to further tailor offerings, such as helping employees pay off student loans with payroll contributions and integrating a client s U.S. PEO population with its global workforce s HR system of record. Protection and Compliance: ADP TotalSource HR experts help clients manage the risks of being an employer by advising how to handle properly a range of issues - from HR and safety compliance to employee-relations. This includes access to workers' compensation coverage and expertise designed to help them handle both routine and unexpected incidents, including discrimination and harassment claims. Talent Engagement: Featuring a talent blueprint, ADP TotalSource HR experts work with clients to hel