Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B. Other Information 82 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 82 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation 84 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 85 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 85 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 85 Signatures 90 2 Part I Item 1. Business CORPORATE BACKGROUND General In 1949, our founders established ADP to shape the world of work with a simple, innovative idea: help clients focus on their business by solving their payroll challenges. Today, we are one of the world s leading global technology companies providing comprehensive cloud-based human capital management (HCM) solutions that unite HR, payroll, talent, time, tax and benefits administration. Our unmatched experience, expertise, insights and cutting-edge technology have transformed HCM from an administrative challenge to a strategic business advantage. Tailored to meet the needs of businesses of all sizes, we help them work smarter today so they can have more success tomorrow. We serve over 1.1 million clients and pay over 42 million workers in over 140 countries and territories. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADP. When we refer to we, us, our, ADP, or the Company in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 3 BUSINESS OVERVIEW ADP s Mission Our mission is to power organizations with insightful Human Capital Management (HCM) solutions that meet the changing needs of our clients and their workers. Data, digital technology, artificial intelligence, globalization, new business models and other significant events and disruptions continuously reshape the way people work. Our HCM technology, industry and compliance expertise and data insights deliver measurable results and peace-of-mind, and contribute to an engaged, productive workforce. Our leading technology and commitment to service excellence are at the core of our relationship with each one of our clients, whether it's a small, mid-sized or large organization operating in one or multiple countries around the world. We are always designing better ways to work through cutting-edge products, premium services and exceptional experiences that enable people to reach their full potential. ADP s Business Pillars Our business is organized around three pillars which represent our core growth areas. U.S. HCM Solutions : In the United States, we provide cloud-based HCM software with supporting service and expertise that assists employers of all types and sizes in managing the entire worker spectrum and employment cycle from freelancer to full-time and from hire to retire. U.S. HR Outsourcing (HRO) Solutions : In the United States, we offer comprehensive HRO solutions in which we provide complete management solutions for HR administration, payroll administration, talent management, employee benefits, benefits administration, employer liability management, and other HCM and employee benefits functions. Global Solutions : We offer international HCM and HRO solutions, comprised of both local, in-country solutions and cloud-based multi-country solutions, to clients wherever they do business around the world. ADP s Strategy Our business strategy has three key priorities: With a large and growing addressable market, we are focused on our core growth areas and further enhancing our market position by executing on our Strategy: Lead with Best-in-Class HCM Technology. We design and develop world-class HCM platforms that simplify work and utilize enabling technologies like artificial intelligence and modern cloud architecture. We aim to solve the needs of our clients and their workers today by making HCM transactions effortless and compliant, while anticipating their needs of tomorrow by incorporating valuable data insights and guidance into our solutions to help them better understand their workforce and how they compare to industry peers, and position them to make better decisions. Provide Unmatched Expertise and Outsourcing Solutions. Our clients look to us as a source of expertise to understand key HR trends and best practices, employment and related legislation, and to offer thoughtful strategies to utilize HCM technology to achieve their business objectives and support their workforce. Many of our clients also look to us to take on responsibility for a portion or all of their HCM workflow via one of our HRO solutions. We intend to continue to build on our deep expertise and make it readily available to our clients through a variety of channels, ranging from traditional call and chat options to self-guided and AI-powered options. We will continue to leverage our significant data insights and investments in AI and other enabling technologies to further enable our decades of knowledge and experience and more effectively 4 apply those to help our clients and their workers navigate the ever-changing world of work. Benefit our Clients with Our Global Scale. Our clients benefit from our unmatched global footprint and scale in the HCM industry. We will continue to build on these strengths to further improve our client experience, and to add to our global footprint to further meet our clients where they choose to do business and address their needs for a distributed and flexible workforce. We intend to build more relationships with partners, such as through the ADP Marketplace, in order to provide clients with seamless integrations and customizations that simplify their HR processes and help them meet their needs. And we intend to grow our sales organization and continue to invest in best-in-class sales technology to not only make the purchase experience seamless but to also empower our sellers to provide the deep expertise and insights our clients, partners and influencers require to ensure they have the right HCM solutions to help them achieve their objectives and make a meaningful impact for their employees. Innovation at ADP Innovation is in our DNA. For 75 years, we have proven that actively listening and responding to what clients and their employees need and want keeps the world of work progressing forward. As a founder in the industry, we pioneered HCM automation, HCM in the cloud, mobile HCM and a digital HCM marketplace. This spirit of innovation remains a steady guide as we continue to listen and respond to emerging needs. The transformative potential of innovation continues to grow, in tandem with the power of technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and generative AI. As these tools change how work happens, we remain focused on providing our clients and associates with HCM technology that is easy to use, powered with smart insights and personalized to support a human-centric experience. To bring these solutions to market, we pursue multiple paths to innovation. From leveraging our unique data to provide differentiated insights to collaborating with, or investing in, organizations with complementary products or purchasing solutions that add to our strong foundation, each of these avenues helps ADP sustain a culture focused on continuous innovation. Transforming our solutions and service through AI Data is the foundation of the advantage we bring to our clients. It s at the core of our products and solutions, informing and driving our approach to innovation and new technology. The global scale and scope of our client base provide us the industry s largest and deepest HCM dataset with over 1.1 million clients spanning over 140 countries and 42 million wage earners globally. Sitting at the center of workforce data, we re able to create tools that automate critical processes, serve up proactive insights, and deliver a personalized experience. Launched in January 2024, ADP Assist is a cross-platform solution powered by generative AI that transforms data into credible and actionable insights. ADP Assist offers smart, user-centric solutions through a conversational interface that touches every aspect of HR payroll, time, talent, benefits, recruitment, analytics, reporting, and compliance. ADP Assist validates payroll information, checking for payroll anomalies and using generative AI to identify and help resolve missing tax registrations and answer questions by drawing on ADP s large, up-to-date dataset of compliance information. ADP Assist also uses generative AI to simplify report creation, helping HR practitioners and leaders access internal, national, and global workforce data to analyze compensation, turnover, candidate profile relevancy, and talent market insights. ADP Assist earned the Generative AI Innovation Award in the 2024 AI Breakthrough Awards. Additionally, we integrated generative AI within the Roll by ADP mobile-first solution to offer clients even greater HR and payroll support with deeper insights. This groundbreaking payroll solution utilizes an AI-powered chat interface to turn traditional payroll management into an intuitive conversation that can complete payroll in under a minute. Leveraging ADP s long-standing payroll expertise and data security, small business owners can download and self-purchase Roll and run payroll anywhere, anytime, quickly, and compliantly, with no experience or training needed. The conversational experience runs off simple chat prompts such as Run my payroll, offering a simple and powerful experience that also allows clients to confidently handle compliance matters like tax filing and deposits. Along with transforming our solutions, we firmly believe AI and generative AI enhance our operations and enable us to elevate the end-to-end client experience. To lean into our service expertise, we also extended generative AI capabilities to a broader portion of our service and implementation associates to deliver an even better client 5 experience. We also continue to explore generative AI capabilities to further empower our sellers and our product developers to be more productive. Leveraging our workforce data AI and ML drive many of the key features of ADP s data products, including ADP DataCloud, our award-winning people analytics solution. ADP DataCloud analyzes aggregated, anonymized and timely HCM and compensation data from more than one million organizations across the U.S., powering solutions that provide clients with in-depth workforce and business insights that support critical HR decisions. In the U.S., ADP DataCloud s Skills Graph, our proprietary data structure, is based on more than 44 million employee records, 140 million resumes and 11 million job postings across more than 20 industries and 500 geographic areas, and uses large language models to extract, align and normalize key information such as skills, job titles and levels, education and qualifications from non-structured data and infers missing skills and qualifications from context. Skills Graph powers ADP s Candidate Profile Relevancy tool to help score, assess and predict candidates who are the best fit for a job opening and is designed to minimize the introduction of bias by, among other things, focusing on the skills, education, and experience of an applicant. Skills Graph also powers our Organizational Benchmarking Dashboard, which enables companies to decide how best to deploy their workers by comparing organizational metrics like headcount, labor costs and turnover against other similar businesses, as well as Talent Market Insights where organizations can explore jobs and locations to understand talent availability, skills, wages, turnover and time to fill an open position. ADP s Model-Based Benchmarks, powered by Skills Graph, deliver real-time compensation insights and market and job coverage for over 9,000 job titles spanning more than 1,000 industries. Model-Based Benchmarks are driven by a set of deep learning models that extract patterns and knowledge from millions of payroll records and job profiles to provide accurate information that reflects the reality of the position being researched, including salary benchmarking tools in the U.S. and Canada. We offer similar tools to clients outside the United States, including through our ADP GlobalView and ADP iHCM solutions. We also continue to advance our next-gen platforms. Built to be as dynamic as the world of work, our next-gen platforms are designed for adaptability. These cloud-native, global, scalable and secure platforms provide our clients with the flexibility they need to address today s and tomorrow s workplace challenges, and to personalize the experience based on their needs. Our next-gen HCM platform is built for the way people actually work together, moving beyond rigid hierarchical organization structures to mirror practically any structure of work groups, such as divisions, regions, or dynamic teams. Our next-gen HCM platform uses AI to tailor personalized experiences relevant to each employee based on attributes of role, geographic location, typical behaviors, and anticipated need. Our next-gen payroll platform is designed to be a global solution that supports workers of all types and enables real-time, transparent, continuous payroll calculations. This next-gen payroll platform also unlocks flexible pay choices for our clients so they can provide the best pay experience for their workers. As the regulatory environment rapidly changes, making it harder for companies to navigate the complexities of payroll, our next-gen payroll platform s built-in compliance capabilities enable our clients to focus on managing their business. The size and breadth of ADP gives us a unique opportunity, especially in the era of data and data-driven products, to test innovative ideas, validate hypotheses and refine solutions before we bring them to the market. This happens through our client-zero program, which forges a direct connection point between our internal HR practitioners and our technologists. A key area of focus is using data and feedback from front-line practitioners to build products that improve the employee experience and make HR technology more intentional and in the moment. It s a feedback loop we extend beyond our client-zero program as well, sourcing regular feedback from client 6 pilot groups to continue to enhance and refine our solutions over time. By innovating with a client-centric mindset, we continue to transform work. Culture of responsible AI In harnessing the power of data through AI and ML, ADP recognizes the importance of accountability, transparency, privacy, explainability and governance, and in furtherance of those goals has established an active AI Data Ethics Committee, comprised of both industry leaders and ADP experts, which advises on emerging industry trends and concerns and provides guidance with respect to compliance with the principles that ADP should follow while developing products, systems and applications that involve AI, ML and data. As we continue to explore the potential that new technologies like generative AI can provide, we understand the great responsibility we have to approach these innovations in a way that is ethical, secure, and compliant for our business and the clients and workers we serve around the world. This led to our establishment of an interdisciplinary working group across ADP to determine governance for use cases and adoption of a set of principles and processes to govern the use of these newer technologies, including operational monitoring of recommendations made by AI and ML technologies. In collaboration with other HCM providers and companies active in the HR space, we worked to develop Best Practices for use of AI in the Workplace led by the Future of Privacy Forum, an organization that brings together industry thought leaders to explore the challenges posed by technological innovation and develop privacy protections, ethical norms, and workable business practices. Creating a customized HR ecosystem To meet clients shifting needs, we also collaborate with partners through solutions like ADP Marketplace, one of the largest digital HR storefronts with over 800 partner solutions worldwide. ADP Marketplace is enhancing our client experience by offering integrated partner solutions. ADP Marketplace also uses ML to easily surface best-fit applications to meet clients critical HR needs. These capabilities are part of ADP s enterprise-wide initiative to bring the power of AI to HR practitioners, managers and employees. And all ADP Marketplace partners offering AI-enabled solutions must commit to a set of responsible AI principles based on the principles that govern our own products. As part of our vision to create an HR ecosystem that is not only efficient but empowers businesses and their people, ADP API Central offers clients access to secure APIs, and tools and resources to simplify and automate their business processes with custom integrations, helping to connect their data across their entire ecosystem. To enhance our integration capabilities, ADP acquired Sora, a low-code intelligent workflow automation and data integration tool that unifies disparate business applications such as HR, IT and other systems and data sets to create a smarter, easier-to-use experience for employees, business owners and HR professionals. The acquisition further solidifies our long-standing strategy to simplify complex HR processes through automation. Reflecting our commitment to innovation, ADP launched a corporate venture capital arm and innovation lab, ADP Ventures. ADP Ventures mission is to enhance and strengthen ADP s core business, create offerings in new adjacent segments and geographies, and develop new assets to monetize markets and segments beyond HCM. As part of its strategy, ADP Ventures invests in and partners with early-stage and scaling tech startups that advance ADP s innovation strategy. Reportable Segments Our two reportable business segments are Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization ( PEO ), and are based on the way that management reviews the performance of, and makes decisions about, our business. For financial data by segment and by geographic area, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Employer Services . Our Employer Services segment serves clients ranging from single-employee small businesses to large enterprises with tens of thousands of employees around the world, offering a comprehensive range of technology-based HCM solutions, including our strategic, cloud-based platforms, and HRO (other than PEO) solutions. These solutions address critical client needs and include: Payroll Services, Benefits Administration, Talent Management, HR Management, Workforce Management, Compliance Services, Insurance Services and Retirement Services. Professional Employer Organization . Our PEO business, called ADP TotalSource , provides clients with comprehensive employment administration outsourcing solutions through a relationship in which employees who work for a client (referred to as worksite employees ) are co-employed by us and the client. 7 PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS In order to serve the unique needs of our clients and their diverse types of businesses and workforce models, we provide a range of solutions which businesses of all types and sizes and across geographies can use to recruit, pay, manage, and retain their workforce. We address these broad market needs with our cloud-based strategic platforms: RUN Powered by ADP , serving over 890,000 small businesses; ADP Workforce Now , serving over 85,000 mid-sized and large businesses across our strategic pillars; and ADP Vantage HCM and our next-gen HCM platform, serving large enterprise businesses. All of these solutions can be combined with ADP SmartCompliance to address the increasingly broad and complex needs of employers. Outside the United States, we address the needs of over 65,000 clients with premier global solutions consisting of in-country solutions and multinational offerings, including ADP GlobalView , ADP Celergo /Streamline and ADP iHCM. Strategic Cloud-based Products and Solutions Across Client Size and Geography HCM Solutions Integrated HCM Solutions. Our premier suite of HCM products offers complete solutions that assist employers of all types and sizes in all stages of the employment cycle, from recruitment to retirement. Our suite of HCM solutions are powered by our strategic, cloud-based, award-winning platforms, including: RUN Powered by ADP combines a software platform for small business payroll, HR management and tax compliance administration, with 24/7 service and support from our team of small business experts. RUN Powered by ADP also integrates with other ADP solutions, such as workforce management, workers compensation insurance premium payment plans, and retirement plan administration systems. ADP Workforce Now is a flexible HCM solution used across mid-sized and large businesses in North America to manage their employees. More businesses use ADP Workforce Now in North America than any other HCM solution designed for both mid-sized and large businesses. ADP Vantage HCM is a solution for large enterprises in the United States. It offers a comprehensive set of HCM capabilities within a single solution that unifies the five major areas of HCM: HR management, benefits administration, payroll services, time and attendance management, and talent management. Payroll Services . We pay over 26 million (approximately 1 out of every 6) workers in the United States. We offer flexible payroll services to employers of all sizes, including the preparation of employee paychecks, pay statements, supporting journals, summaries, and management reports. 8 We provide employers with a wide range of payroll options, including using mobile technology, connecting their major enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) applications with ADP s payroll services or outsourcing their entire payroll process to us. Employers can choose a variety of payroll payment options including ADP s electronic wage payment and, in the United States, payroll card solutions and digital accounts. On behalf of our clients in the United States, we prepare and file federal, state and local payroll tax returns, and quarterly and annual Social Security, Medicare, and federal, state and local income tax withholding reports. Benefits Administration. In the United States, we provide powerful and agile solutions for employee benefits administration. These options include health and welfare administration services, leave administration services, insurance carrier enrollment services, employee communication services, and dependent verification services. In addition, ADP benefits administration solutions offer employers a simple and flexible cloud-based eligibility and enrollment system that provides their employees with tools, communications, and other resources they need to understand their benefits options and make informed choices. Talent Management. ADP s Talent Management solutions simplify and improve the talent acquisition, management and activation process, from recruitment to ongoing employee engagement and development. Employers can also outsource their internal recruitment function to ADP. Our solutions provide performance, learning, succession and compensation management tools that help employers align goals to outcomes, and enable managers to identify and mitigate potential retention risks. Our talent activation solutions include StandOut powered by ADP, which provides team leaders with data and insights to drive employee engagement and leadership development, which in turn help drive employee performance. Workforce Management. ADP s Workforce Management offers a range of solutions to over 130,000 employers of all sizes, including time and attendance, absence management and scheduling tools. Time and attendance solutions include time capture via online timesheets, timeclocks with badge readers, biometrics and touch-screens, telephone/interactive voice response, and mobile smartphones and tablets. These tools automate the calculation and reporting of hours worked, helping employers prepare payroll, control costs and overtime, and manage compliance with wage and hour regulations. Absence management tools include accrued time off, attendance policy and leave case management modules. Our employee scheduling tools simplify visibility, offer shift-swapping capabilities and can assist managers with optimizing schedules to boost productivity and minimize under- and over-staffing. We also offer data analytics and reporting tools that provide clients with insights, benchmarks and performance metrics so they can better manage their workforce. In addition, industry-specific modules are available for labor forecasting, budgeting, activity and task management, grant and project tracking, and tips management. Compliance Solutions. ADP s Compliance Solutions provides industry-leading expertise in payment compliance and employment-related tax matters that complement the payroll, HR and ERP systems of our clients. In our fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, in the United States, we processed and delivered more than 78 million employee year-end tax statements and moved more than $3.1 trillion in client funds to our clients employees, tax authorities and other payees. ADP SmartCompliance. In the United States, ADP SmartCompliance integrates client data delivered from our integrated HCM platforms or third-party payroll, HR and financial systems into a single, cloud-based solution. Our specialized teams use the data to work with clients to help them manage changing and complex regulatory landscapes and improve business processes. ADP SmartCompliance includes HCM-related compliance solutions such as Employment Tax and Wage Payments, as well as Tax Credits, Health Compliance, Wage Garnishments, Employment Verifications, Unemployment Claims and W-2 Management. ADP SmartCompliance Employment Tax. As part of our full-service employment tax services in the United States, we prepare and file employment tax returns on our clients behalf and, in connection with these stand-alone services, collect employment taxes from clients and remit these taxes to more than 8,000 federal, state and local tax agencies. ADP SmartCompliance Wage Payments. In the United States, we offer compliant pay solutions for today s 9 workforce, including electronic payroll disbursement options such as payroll cards, digital accounts and direct deposit, as well as traditional payroll checks, which can be integrated with clients ERP and payroll systems. Human Resources Management. Commonly referred to as Human Resource Information Systems, ADP s Human Resources Management Solutions provide employers with a single system of record to support the entry, validation, maintenance, and reporting of data required for effective HR management, including employee names, addresses, job types, salary grades, employment history, and educational background. Insurance Services. ADP s Insurance Services business, in conjunction with our licensed insurance agency, Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc., facilitates access in the United States to workers compensation and group health insurance for over 240,000 small and mid-sized clients through a variety of insurance carriers. Our automated Pay-by-Pay premium payment program calculates and collects workers compensation premium payments each pay period, simplifying this task for employers. Retirement Services. ADP Retirement Services helps over 170,000 employers in the United States administer various types of retirement plans, such as traditional and Roth 401(k)s, profit sharing (including new comparability), SIMPLE and SEP IRAs, and executive deferred compensation plans. ADP Retirement Services offers a full service 401(k) plan program which provides recordkeeping and administrative services, combined with an investment platform offered through ADP Broker-Dealer, Inc. that gives our clients employees access to a wide range of non-proprietary investment options and online tools to monitor the performance of their investments. In addition, ADP Retirement Services offers investment management services to retirement plans through ADP Strategic Plan Services, LLC, an SEC registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. ADP Retirement Services also offers trustee services through a third party as well as through ADP Retirement Trust Services, LLC, a New Hampshire state-chartered affiliated trust company. HRO Solutions As a leader in the growing HR Outsourcing market, we partner with clients from small, midsized and large enterprise organizations, offering a full range of premium services and seamless technology for HR, benefits, payroll, and talent management. We help organizations streamline processes, reduce the daily workload and reduce compliance risk while also gaining a partner to navigate HR challenges. Whether a client chooses our Profess