Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 34 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 Item 6. [Reserved] 40 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 68 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 114 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 114 Item 9B. Other Information 114 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 115 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 116 Item 11. Executive Compensation 125 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 156 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 157 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 158 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 160 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 160 Signatures 163 3 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION The discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the following sections: Business (Part I, Item 1), Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A), and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Part II, Item 7). Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies; future financial results (by product type and geography), operational and key metrics and subscriptions; the effects of global economic and political conditions, including the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine; the impact of past and planned acquisitions and investment activities; expected market trends and market opportunities; our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products; our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives; cybersecurity and privacy issues or incidents; the effect of competition; the effect of unemployment; the availability of credit; the effects of revenue recognition; the effects of newly recently issued accounting standards; expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses; expectations regarding our cash needs and expenditures; the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results; the effect of laws and regulations that we are subject to; the timing and amount of purchases under our stock repurchase plan; and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth below in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-K appears at the end of this Item 1. GENERAL We are a global leader in 3D design, engineering and entertainment technology solutions, spanning architecture, engineering, construction, product design, manufacturing, media, and entertainment. Our customers design, fabricate, manufacture, and build anything by visualizing, simulating, and analyzing real-world performance early in the design process. These capabilities allow our customers to foster innovation, optimize their designs, streamline their manufacturing and construction processes, save time and money, improve quality, deliver more sustainable outcomes, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. Our professional software products are sold globally through a combination of indirect and direct channels. Corporate Information Our internet address is www.autodesk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our website at www.autodesk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PRODUCTS Our architecture, engineering, and construction products improve the way building, infrastructure, and industrial projects are designed, built, and operated. Our product development and manufacturing software provides manufacturers in automotive, transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products, and building product industries with comprehensive digital design, engineering, manufacturing, and production solutions. These technologies bring together data from all phases of the product development and production life cycle, creating a digital pipeline that supports greater productivity, accuracy through process automation, and insights that enable more sustainable outcomes. Our digital media and entertainment products provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing for design visualization, visual effects, games production, and enables connection of workflows and data from pre-production to post-production. Our portfolio of products and services enables our customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, save time and money, improve quality, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. A summary of our revenue by geographic area and product family is found in Part II, Item 8, Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Autodesk s product offerings include: Architecture, Engineering and Construction ( AEC ) Architecture, Engineering Construction Collection The AEC Collection, including AutoCAD, AutoCAD Civil3D, and Revit, aims to help our customers design, engineer, and construct higher quality, more predictable building and civil infrastructure projects, commonly used by AEC industry experts. 5 Table of Contents AutoCAD Civil 3D AutoCAD Civil 3D solution provides a surveying, design, analysis, and documentation solution for civil engineering, including land development, transportation, and environmental projects. Using a model-centric approach that automatically updates documentation as design changes are made, AutoCAD Civil 3D enables civil engineers, designers, drafters, and surveyors to significantly boost productivity and deliver higher-quality designs and construction documentation faster. With AutoCAD Civil 3D, the entire project team works from the same consistent, up-to-date model so they stay coordinated throughout all project phases. Autodesk Build Autodesk Build delivers a connected set of project management and collaboration tools for the construction industry. Autodesk Build provides a toolset for managing, sharing, and accessing project documents that results in streamlined workflows between the office, trailer, and jobsite. In addition, Autodesk Build can be used to track the quality and safety of the project with issues and forms. Team members can use Autodesk Build for requests for information (RFIs), submittals, and meetings to manage the flow of information and track project progress across the construction timeline. The PlanGrid Build mobile app delivers field critical project information and collaboration from Autodesk Build to the jobsite. As part of Autodesk Construction Cloud, Build connects data originating in design and preconstruction to the construction and operations phase, allowing users to identify, manage and de-risk project decisions. BIM Collaborate Pro Autodesk BIM Collaborate Pro is cloud-based design collaboration and design management software that enables teams to: organize project data, democratize access, and connect; improve project visibility to deliver on time; and work together on increasingly complex projects. Building Connected BuildingConnected is a SaaS preconstruction solution that combines the largest real-time, construction network with an easy-to-use tool that helps general contractors and owners streamline subcontractor qualification, and the bid and risk management process. Revit Revit software is built for Building Information Modeling ( BIM ) to help professionals design, build, and maintain higher-quality, more energy-efficient buildings. Using the information-rich models created with Revit, architects, engineers, and construction firms can collaborate to make better-informed decisions earlier in the design process to deliver projects with greater efficiency. Revit includes features for architectural, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing design as well as structural engineering and construction, providing a comprehensive solution for the entire building project team. AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT AutoCAD AutoCAD software is a customizable and extensible CAD application for professional design, drafting, detailing, and visualization. AutoCAD software provides digital tools that can be used independently and in conjunction with other specific applications in fields ranging from construction and civil engineering to manufacturing and plant design. AutoCAD LT AutoCAD LT software is purpose built for professional drafting and detailing. AutoCAD LT includes document sharing capability without the need for software customization or certain advanced functionality found in AutoCAD. Users can share all design data with team members who use AutoCAD or other Autodesk products built on AutoCAD. Manufacturing ( MFG ) Fusion (Formerly Fusion 360) 6 Table of Contents Fusion is the first 3D CAD, CAM, and computer-aided engineering ( CAE ) tool of its kind. It connects the entire product development process on a single cloud-based platform. Inventor Inventor enables manufacturers to go beyond 3D design to digital prototyping by giving engineers a comprehensive and flexible set of tools for 3D mechanical design, simulation, analysis, tooling, visualization, and documentation. Engineers can integrate AutoCAD drawings and model-based design data into a single digital model, creating a virtual representation of a final product that enables them to validate the form, fit, and function of the product before it is ever built. Product Design Manufacturing Collection The Product Design Manufacturing Collection offers connected, professional-grade tools that help our customers make great products today and compete in the changing manufacturing landscape of the future. The collection offers access to a wide range of our products, including AutoCAD, Fusion, Vault, and Inventor. Vault Vault data management software makes it easier to manage data in one central location, accelerate design processes, and streamline internal/external collaboration. Vault integrates with more than 30 Autodesk design applications, provides powerful revisioning and access control capabilities, and enables customers to share product data securely to improve engineering cycle time and reduce manufacturing errors. Media and Entertainment ( M E ) Flow Production Tracking (currently ShotGrid) Flow Production Tracking is cloud-based software for review and production tracking in the M E industry. Creative companies use the Flow Production Tracking platform to provide essential business tools for managers and visual collaboration tools for artists and supervisors, who often work globally with distributed teams. Maya Maya software provides 3D modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing solutions that enable film and video artists, game developers, and design visualization professionals to digitally create engaging, lifelike images, realistic animations and simulations, extraordinary visual effects, and full-length animated feature films. Media Entertainment Collection The M E Collection provides end-to-end creative tools for entertainment creation. This collection enables animators, modelers, and visual effects artists to access the tools they need, including Maya and 3ds Max, to create compelling effects, 3D characters, and digital worlds. 3ds Max 3ds Max software provides 3D modeling, animation, and rendering solutions that enable game developers, design visualization professionals, and visual effects artists to digitally create realistic images, animations, and complex scenes and to digitally communicate abstract or complex mechanical, architectural, engineering, and construction concepts. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND INTRODUCTION The technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in computer hardware, operating systems, and software. In addition, o ur customers requirements and preferences rapidly evolve, as do their expectations of the performance of our software and services. To keep pace with these changes, we maintain a vigorous program of new product development to address demands in the marketplace for our products, such as enabling more flexibility and sustainable outcomes. With the new transaction model, we are approaching the final phase of modernizing our go-to-market motion, which includes building more durable and direct relationships with our customers, updating our data infrastructure, and retiring old 7 Table of Contents information systems and business models. We are undertaking a multi-year process to develop lifecycle solutions within and between our industry clouds, powered by shared platform services, and with our data model at its core. Together, these will help enable Autodesk, its customers, and partners, to create more valuable, data-driven, and connected products and services. Subscription plan offerings are designed to give our customers increased flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to attract a broader range of customers such as project-based users and small businesses. Subscription plans represent a combined hybrid offering of desktop software and cloud functionality which provides a device-independent, collaborative design workflow for designers and their stakeholders. We dedicate considerable technical and financial resources to research and development to deliver additional automation and insights to our customers through artificial intelligence ( AI ), machine learning, and generative design, which increase efficiency and sustainability and reduce waste. These investments further enhance our existing products and create new solutions and technologies which connect the workflows and data of our customers across the ecosystem of their projects and expand our market opportunity. Our tools connect and automate the phases of design and creation, enabling greater collaboration and the seamless flow of data for individuals and teams across all phases. Our software is primarily developed internally; however, we also use independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. Additionally, we acquire or license products and technologies developed by third parties. We continually review these investments to ensure that we are generating sufficient revenue or gaining a competitive advantage to justify their costs. The majority of our research and product development is performed in the United States, Canada, China, India, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. However, we employ experienced software developers in many of our other locations. Translation and localization of our products are performed in several local markets, principally Singapore and Ireland. We generally localize and translate our products into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Japanese, Korean, and simplified and traditional Chinese. We plan to continue managing significant product development operations internationally over the next several years. We believe that our ability to conduct research and development at various locations throughout the world allows us to tap into a diverse global talent pool, optimize costs, and integrate local market knowledge into our development activities. We continually assess costs, hiring challenges, and intellectual property protection, against the benefits of our international development activities. For further discussion regarding risks from our product development and introduction efforts, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. MARKETING AND SALES We sell our products and services globally, through a combination of direct and indirect channels. We transact directly with our enterprise and named account customers, with customers through our online Autodesk branded store, and with certain customers through our new transaction model whereby channel partners provide a quote to customers but the actual transaction occurs directly between Autodesk and the customer. We introduced this new transaction model for our token-based Flex offering in certain countries globally, and for most of our subscription offerings in Australia during fiscal 2024. Dependent upon successful implementation in Australia, we intend to transition our indirect business to the new transaction model more broadly for most of our subscription offerings in North America and certain countries in Europe, Middle East, and Africa ( EMEA ) and Asia Pacific ( APAC ) during fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2026. The new transaction model is anticipated to help customers with enhanced control and time savings through self-service, consistent pricing, and a more personalized buying experience. Also, it will give partners and Autodesk access to essential data to improve our offerings and the customers buying experience. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately 1,450 resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal 2024, approximately 63% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our direct and indirect channels with our business strategies. We anticipate that our channel mix will continue to change as we scale our business. With the continued growth of our online Autodesk branded store, the transition to annual billings for multi-year contracts and the introduction of our new transaction model, we will be decreasing our sales through value-added resellers and distributors and transacting directly with more end customers without substantial disruption to our revenue. We expect our indirect channel will continue to transact and support a considerable portion of our customers, particularly in emerging regions and with federal governments. Our ability to 8 Table of Contents effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor, reseller and Solution Provider networks. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business with any one of our major distributors, large resellers or Solution Providers could harm our business. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for further discussion. The transition to annual billings for multi-year contracts impacted the timing of our billings and cash collections in fiscal year 2024 and we expect this impact to continue into fiscal year 2025. See Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion. Revenue through our largest distributor, TD Synnex Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, TD Synnex ), accounted for 39%, 37%, and 36% of our net revenue for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Ingram Micro Inc. ( Ingram Micro ), our second-largest distributor, accounted for 7%, 9%, and 9% of Autodesk's total net revenue for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. During fiscal 2023, we entered into transition agreements with certain of our distributors, including TD Synnex and Ingram Micro, to provide transition distribution activities for a one-to-two-year period, with potential extensions. In connection with the transition agreements, we intend to increase our selling efforts with value-added resellers and Solution Providers in connection with our new transaction model. Consequently, we believe our business is not substantially dependent on TD Synnex or Ingram Micro. No other distributor, reseller, or direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions: the Americas; EMEA; and APAC. Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions and currency exchange rates in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for further discussion. We also work directly with reseller, distributor, and Solution Provider partner organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers, and peripherals manufacturers in cooperative advertising, promotions, and trade-show presentations. We employ mass-marketing techniques such as webcasts, seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings, sponsorships, advertising in business and trade journals, and social media. We have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products and services. We generate revenue primarily through various offerings that provide recurring revenue. Under our subscription plan, customers can use our software anytime, anywhere, and get access to the latest updates to previous versions through term-based product subscriptions, cloud service offerings, and enterprise business agreements ( EBA ). Historically, we have had increased EBA sale activity in our fourth fiscal quarter. This seasonality may not have an immediate impact on our revenue as we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the contract. This seasonality may also affect the relative value of our billings, Remaining Performance Obligations ( RPO ), and collections in the fourth and first fiscal quarters. CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORT We provide technical support and training to customers through a multi-tiered support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific customer needs. Most of our customers receive support and training from the resellers and distributors from which they purchased subscriptions or licenses for our products or services, with Autodesk in turn providing second-tier support to the resellers and distributors. Other customers are supported directly via self-service using the Autodesk Knowledge Network, which guides customers to answers in our online support assets, support forums, or webinars, or to support representatives using different modalities such as social media, phone, email, and webchat. We also support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, webinars, and other knowledge-sharing programs. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE PROGRAMS Impact at Autodesk Autodesk is committed to advancing a more sustainable, resilient, and equitable world. We don t believe in waiting for progress, we believe in making it. We take action as a business to support our employees, customers, and communities in our collective opportunity to design and make a better world for all. 9 Table of Contents We focus our efforts to advance positive outcomes across three primary areas: energy and materials, health and resilience, and work and prosperity. These impact opportunity areas are derived from the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) and have been identified through a multi-pronged process to align the top needs of our stakeholders, the issues that are most important to our business, and the areas we are best placed to accelerate positive impact at scale. These opportunities primarily manifest as outcomes through how our customers leverage our technology to design and make net-zero carbon buildings, resilient infrastructure, more sustainable products, and a thriving workforce. We support and amplify these opportunities through powering our business with 100% renewable energy, neutralizing greenhouse gas emissions associated with our operations, developing an inclusive culture and supporting students and educators with tools and training to equip the next generation of innovators. We advance these opportunities with industry innovators through collaboration with our customers and partners, deploying philanthropic capital to changemakers, and providing software donations, and training to our wider ecosystem. Autodesk committed to target 1% of annual operating profit for the long-term support of our impact programs, which includes our philanthropic work and our climate commitments. Education Autodesk is committed to helping students gain the in-demand skills and certifications needed to demonstrate they are prepared for current and emerging roles in the industries we serve. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk s complete portfolio of professional software to verified students, educators, and accredited educational institutions worldwide. Additionally, we offer self-paced, modular learning and curriculum for K-12, post-secondary students, and educators. Our intention is to make Autodesk software the preferred choice for those poised to become the next generation of design, engineering, and construction professionals. Sustainability Climate Change In addressing the global challenges posed by climate change, we make it possible for our customers to innovate and respond to associated changes in regulation, building code, physical climate parameters, and other climate-related developments. This effort can directly and indirectly create more demand for existing and new Autodesk products and services in the short and long-term. Furthermore, our leadership is committed to taking climate action and that commitment goes hand in hand with our values and reputation in the marketplace. Climate Change Management Actions To drive continued progress and meet growing demand, we continue to expand the solutions, education, and support we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage for a low-carbon future by designing high-performance buildings, resilient cities and infrastructure, and more efficient transportation and products. To continue to grow this market, we invest in our tools to meet customer s demand as well as provide software and support to early-stage entrepreneurs, nonprofit organizations, and start-up companies who are designing clean technologies. We are expanding these offerings based upon demand and opportunity in response to challenges posed by climate change. Internally, we are investing in best practices to mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions ( GHGs ) and climate change risk through investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, and disaster management and recovery strategies. Our Enterprise Risk Management process considered how climate impacts could affect and potentially amplify the overall significance of each identified risk and opportunity. We regularly assess the evolving issues around climate and inequality and respond accordingly. In fiscal year 2022, we deployed a new sustainability financing framework to accelerate new and existing efforts in these areas, including issuing a $1 billion sustainability bond to support eligible projects and initiatives. 10 Table of Contents Emissions Performance Other Key Performance Indicators In fiscal year 2023, we made progress on our science-based GHG reduction target, to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs 50%, and reduce Scope 3 GHGs per dollar of gross profit 55%, by fiscal year 2031, compared to fiscal year 2020. Additionally, in fiscal 2023, we were responsible for 115,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions across our market-based operational boundary. This represents a 50% reduction compared to our fiscal year 2020 base line. In addition, our residual 115,000 metric ton