Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. [Reserved] 37 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 65 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 111 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 111 Item 9B. Other Information 111 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 112 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 113 Item 11. Executive Compensation 114 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 114 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 115 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 115 Signatures 118 3 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION The discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this Form 10-K, including the following sections: Business (Part I, Item 1), Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A), and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Part II, Item 7). Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies; future financial results (by product type and geography), operational and key metrics and subscriptions; the effects of global economic and political conditions, including the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine; t he impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on our business and results of operations; the impact of past and planned acquisitions and investment activities; expected market trends and market opportunities; our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products; our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives; cybersecurity and privacy issues or incidents; the effect of competition; the effect of unemployment; the availability of credit; the effects of revenue recognition; the effects of newly recently issued accounting standards; expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses; expectations regarding our cash needs and expenditures; the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results; the effect of laws and regulations that we are subject to; the timing and amount of purchases under our stock repurchase plan; and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as may, believe, could, anticipate, would, might, plan, expect, and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth below in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-K appears at the end of this Item 1. GENERAL We are a global leader in 3D design, engineering, and entertainment software and services, offering customers productive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. We serve customers in architecture, engineering, and construction; product design and manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment industries. Our customers design, fabricate, manufacture, and build anything by visualizing, simulating, and analyzing real-world performance early in the design process. These capabilities allow our customers to foster innovation, optimize their designs, streamline their manufacturing and construction processes, save time and money, improve quality, deliver more sustainable outcomes, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. Our professional software products are sold globally, both directly to customers and through a network of resellers and distributors. Corporate Information Our internet address is www.autodesk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our website at www.autodesk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PRODUCTS Our architecture, engineering, and construction products improve the way building, infrastructure, and industrial projects are designed, built, and operated. Our product development and manufacturing software provides manufacturers in automotive, transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products, and building product industries with comprehensive digital design, engineering, manufacturing, and production solutions. These technologies bring together data from all phases of the product development and production life cycle, creating a digital pipeline that supports greater productivity, accuracy through process automation, and insights that enable more sustainable outcomes. Our digital media and entertainment products provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing for design visualization, visual effects, games production, and enables connection of workflows and data from post-production to pre-production. Our portfolio of products and services enables our customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, save time and money, improve quality, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. A summary of our revenue by geographic area and product family is found in Note 2, Revenue Recognition, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Autodesk s product offerings include: Architecture, Engineering and Construction ( AEC ) AutoCAD Civil 3D AutoCAD Civil 3D solution provides a surveying, design, analysis, and documentation solution for civil engineering, including land development, transportation, and environmental projects. Using a model-centric approach that automatically updates documentation as design changes are made, AutoCAD Civil 3D enables civil engineers, designers, drafters, and surveyors to significantly boost productivity and deliver higher-quality designs and construction documentation faster. With AutoCAD Civil 3D, the entire project team works from the same consistent, up-to-date model so they stay coordinated throughout all project phases. BIM 360 BIM 360 construction management cloud-based software enables almost anytime, anywhere access to project data throughout the building construction lifecycle. BIM 360 empowers those in the field to better anticipate and act, and those in the back office to optimize and manage all aspects of construction performance. 5 Table of Contents Architecture, Engineering Construction Collection The AEC Collection, including AutoCAD, AutoCAD Civil3D, and Revit, aims to help our customers design, engineer, and construct higher quality, more predictable building and civil infrastructure projects, commonly used by AEC industry experts. Autodesk Build Autodesk Build delivers a connected set of project management and collaboration tools for the construction industry. Autodesk Build provides a toolset for managing, sharing, and accessing project documents that results in streamlined workflows between the office, trailer, and jobsite. In addition, Autodesk Build can be used to track the quality and safety of the project with issues and forms. Team members can use Autodesk Build for requests for information (RFIs), submittals, and meetings to manage the flow of information and track project progress across the construction timeline. The PlanGrid Build mobile app delivers field critical project information and collaboration from Autodesk Build to the jobsite. As part of Autodesk Construction Cloud, Build connects data originating in design and preconstruction to the construction and operations phase, allowing users to identify, manage and de-risk project decisions. Revit Revit software is built for Building Information Modeling ( BIM ) to help professionals design, build, and maintain higher-quality, more energy-efficient buildings. Using the information-rich models created with Revit, architects, engineers, and construction firms can collaborate to make better-informed decisions earlier in the design process to deliver projects with greater efficiency. Revit includes features for architectural, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing design as well as structural engineering and construction, providing a comprehensive solution for the entire building project team. AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT AutoCAD AutoCAD software is a customizable and extensible CAD application for professional design, drafting, detailing, and visualization. AutoCAD software provides digital tools that can be used independently and in conjunction with other specific applications in fields ranging from construction and civil engineering to manufacturing and plant design. AutoCAD LT AutoCAD LT software is purpose built for professional drafting and detailing. AutoCAD LT includes document sharing capability without the need for software customization or certain advanced functionality found in AutoCAD. Users can share all design data with team members who use AutoCAD or other Autodesk products built on AutoCAD. Manufacturing ( MFG ) CAM Solutions Our computer-aided manufacturing ( CAM ) software offers industry-leading solutions for computer numerical control ( CNC ) machining, inspection, and modeling for manufacturing. A comprehensive line-up of expert products, including PowerMill, FeatureCAM, PowerInspect, PowerShare, and others, help our customers manufacture complex, innovative products and components with maximum quality, control, and production efficiency. Fusion 360 Fusion 360 is the first 3D CAD, CAM, and computer-aided engineering ( CAE ) tool of its kind. It connects the entire product development process on a single cloud-based platform. Product Design Manufacturing Collection The Product Design Manufacturing Collection offers connected, professional-grade tools that help our customers make great products today and compete in the changing manufacturing landscape of the future. The collection offers access to a wide range of our products, including AutoCAD, Fusion 360, Vault, and Inventor. 6 Table of Contents Inventor Inventor enables manufacturers to go beyond 3D design to digital prototyping by giving engineers a comprehensive and flexible set of tools for 3D mechanical design, simulation, analysis, tooling, visualization, and documentation. Engineers can integrate AutoCAD drawings and model-based design data into a single digital model, creating a virtual representation of a final product that enables them to validate the form, fit, and function of the product before it is ever built. Vault Vault data management software makes it easier to manage data in one central location, accelerate design processes, and streamline internal/external collaboration. Vault integrates with more than 30 Autodesk design applications, provides powerful revisioning and access control capabilities, and enables customers to share product data securely to improve engineering cycle time and reduce manufacturing errors. Media and Entertainment ( M E ) Media Entertainment Collection The M E Collection provides end-to-end creative tools for entertainment creation. This collection enables animators, modelers, and visual effects artists to access the tools they need, including Maya and 3ds Max, to create compelling effects, 3D characters, and digital worlds. Maya Maya software provides 3D modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing solutions that enable film and video artists, game developers, and design visualization professionals to digitally create engaging, lifelike images, realistic animations and simulations, extraordinary visual effects, and full-length animated feature films. ShotGrid ShotGrid is cloud-based software for review and production tracking in the M E industry. Creative companies use the ShotGrid platform to provide essential business tools for managers and visual collaboration tools for artists and supervisors, who often work globally with distributed teams. 3ds Max 3ds Max software provides 3D modeling, animation, and rendering solutions that enable game developers, design visualization professionals, and visual effects artists to digitally create realistic images, animations, and complex scenes and to digitally communicate abstract or complex mechanical, architectural, engineering, and construction concepts. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND INTRODUCTION The technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in computer hardware, operating systems, and software. In addition, our customers requirements and preferences rapidly evolve, as do their expectations of the performance of our software and services. To keep pace with these changes, we maintain a vigorous program of new product development to address demands in the marketplace for our products, such as enabling more flexibility and sustainable outcomes. Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframe computers and engineering workstations to personal computers. We have developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, the software industry has undergone a transition from developing and selling perpetual licenses and on-premises products to subscriptions and cloud-enabled technologies. Subscription plan offerings are designed to give our customers increased flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to attract a broader range of customers such as project-based users and small businesses. Subscription plans represent a combined hybrid offering of desktop software and cloud functionality which provides a device-independent, collaborative design workflow for designers and their stakeholders. I n order to offer better service to our customers, we are transitioning our existing customers from serial numbers to named users. We 7 Table of Contents completed the migration of our single-user subscriptions from serial numbers in fiscal 2021 and are transitioning multi-user subscriptions to named users through February 2024. We dedicate considerable technical and financial resources to research and development to deliver additional automation and insights to our customers through artificial intelligence, machine learning, and generative design, which increase efficiency and sustainability and reduce waste. These investments further enhance our existing products and create new solutions and technologies which connect the workflows and data of our customers across the ecosystem of their projects and expand our market opportunity. Our tools connect and automate the phases of design and creation, enabling greater collaboration and the seamless flow of data for individuals and teams across all phases. Our software is primarily developed internally; however, we also use independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. Additionally, we acquire or license products and technologies developed by third parties. We continually review these investments to ensure that we are generating sufficient revenue or gaining a competitive advantage to justify their costs. The majority of our research and product development is performed in the United States, China, Singapore, Canada, and the United Kingdom. However, we employ experienced software developers in many of our other locations. Translation and localization of our products are performed in several local markets, principally Singapore and Ireland. We generally localize and translate our products into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, Korean, and simplified and traditional Chinese. We plan to continue managing significant product development operations internationally over the next several years. We believe that our ability to conduct research and development at various locations throughout the world allows us to optimize product development, lower costs, and integrate local market knowledge into our development activities. We continually assess the significant costs and challenges, including intellectual property protection, against the benefits of our international development activities. For further discussion regarding risks from our product development and introduction efforts, see Item 1A, Risk Factors. MARKETING AND SALES We sell our products and services globally, primarily through indirect channels consisting of distributors and resellers. We also transact directly with our enterprise and named account customers and with customers through our online Autodesk branded store. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately 1,500 resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal 2022, approximately 65% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers. We anticipate that our channel mix will continue to change, particularly as we scale our online Autodesk branded store business and our largest accounts shift towards direct-only business models. Importantly, we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the near future. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our reseller channel with our business strategies. Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller networks. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business with any one of our major distributors or large resellers could harm our business. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for further discussion. Sales through our largest distributor, Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively, Tech Data ), accounted for 36%, 37%, and 35% of our net revenue for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Ingram Micro Inc. ( Ingram Micro ), our second-largest distributor, accounted for 9% of Autodesk's total net revenue for fiscal year ended January 31, 2022 and 10% of total net revenue for fiscal years ended January 31, 2021 and 2020. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on either Tech Data or Ingram Micro. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data or Ingram Micro be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data or Ingram Micro would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. No other distributor, reseller, or direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. 8 Table of Contents Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions: the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ( EMEA ); and Asia Pacific ( APAC ). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions and currency exchange rates in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for further discussion. We also work directly with reseller and distributor sales organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers, and peripherals manufacturers in cooperative advertising, promotions, and trade-show presentations. We employ mass-marketing techniques such as webcasts, seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings, sponsorships, advertising in business and trade journals, and social media. We have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products and services. We generate revenue primarily through various offerings that provide recurring revenue. Under our subscription plan, customers can use our software anytime, anywhere, and get access to the latest updates to previous versions through term-based product subscriptions, cloud service offerings, and enterprise business agreements ( EBA ). Historically, we have had increased EBA sale activity in our fourth fiscal quarter. This seasonality may not have an immediate impact on our revenue as we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the contract. This seasonality may also affect the relative value of our billings, RPO, and collections in the fourth and first fiscal quarters. CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORT We provide technical support and training to customers through a multi-tiered support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific customer needs. Most of our customers receive support and training from the resellers and distributors from which they purchased subscriptions or licenses for our products or services, with Autodesk in turn providing second-tier support to the resellers and distributors. Other customers are supported directly via self-service using the Autodesk Knowledge Network, which guides customers to answers in our online support assets, support forums, or webinars, or to support representatives using different modalities such as social media, phone, email, and webchat. We also support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, webinars, and other knowledge-sharing programs. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE PROGRAMS Impact at Autodesk Autodesk is committed to advancing a more sustainable, resilient, and equitable world. We don t believe in waiting for progress, we believe in making it. We take action as a business and to support our employees, customers, and communities in our collective opportunity to design and make a better world for all. We focus our efforts to advance positive outcomes across three primary areas: energy and materials, health and resilience, and work and prosperity. These impact opportunity areas are derived from the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) and have been focused through a multi-pronged process to align the top needs of our stakeholders, the important issues of our business, and the areas we are best placed to accelerate positive impact at scale. These opportunities manifest as outcomes through how our customers leverage our technology to design and make net-zero carbon buildings, resilient infrastructure, more sustainable products, and a thriving workforce. We realize these opportunities in our business through our 100% renewable and net-zero greenhouse gas operations and inclusive culture. We advance these opportunities with industry innovators through collaboration, grants, software donations, and training. Education Autodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design and making among students of all ages, both within and outside the classroom. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk s professional software to students, educators, and accredited educational institutions worldwide. We inspire and support beginners with Tinkercad, a simple online 3D design and 3D printing tool. Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and post-secondary schools hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and 9 Table of Contents Math (STEAM) using Autodesk s professional-grade design, engineering, and entertainment software. Autodesk Design Academy curricula is also syndicated on iTunes U and Udemy, where millions of students go to learn online. Classes and projects are available on our Instructables website for anyone looking to expand their making skills. In November 2020, we launched a credential program, which empowers current and future Autodesk customers to learn in-demand toolsets, skillsets, and mindsets, while earning credentials that demonstrate their job readiness. We offer self-paced, modular learning through a range of skill levels, roles, and career ambitions, helping professionals demonstrate and apply relevant knowledge, step into emerging roles, and stay at the forefront of their industry. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design and making software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users. Sustainability Climate Change In addressing the global challenges posed by climate change, we make it possible for our customers to innovate and respond to associated changes in regulation, building code, physical climate parameters, and other climate-related developments. This effort can directly and indirectly create more demand for existing and new Autodesk products and services in the short and long-term. Furthermore, our leadership is committed to taking climate action and that commitment goes hand in hand with our values and reputation in the marketplace. In fiscal 2022, we integrated regular analysis of various climate scenarios into our enterprise strategy and risk processes. Climate Change Management Actions To drive continued progress and meet growing demand, we continue to expand the solutions, education, and support we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage for a low-carbon future by designing high-performance buildings, resilient cities and infrastructure, and more efficient transportation and products. To continue to grow this market, we provide software and support to early-stage entrepreneurs, nonprofit organizations, and start-up companies who are designing clean technologies. We are expanding these offerings based upon demand and opportunity in response to challenges posed by climate change. Internally, we are investing in best practices to mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions ( GHGs ) and climate change risk through investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, and disaster management and recovery strategies. In fiscal year 2022, we deployed a new sustainability financing framework to accelerate new and existing efforts in these areas. Details about this effort can be found in our Sustainability Financing Framework on our website at www.autodesk.com. Information contained on or accessible through our website is not part of or incorporated by reference into this report. Emissions Performance Other Key Performance Indicators In fiscal year 2022, we launched our second science-based GHG reduction target, to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs 50%, and reduce Scope 3 GHGs per dollar of gross profit 25%, by fiscal year 2031, compared to fiscal year 2020. In fiscal year 2021, we attained our ongoing commitment to being net-zero emissions, and before carbon offsets, were responsible for 126,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent across our operational, market-based, boundary. This represents a 45% reduction compared to our fiscal year 2020 base line. Our assured results for fiscal year 2022 and our ongoing commitments will be published in our fiscal year 2022 impact report. This change in GHGs largely stemmed from changes in travel during the global pandemic and also continued investment in renewable energy and efficiency across our footprint areas. More information about our sustainability commitment can be found in our annual impact reports, which we have published on our website since 2008. Our fiscal 2022 impact report will be published in the second quarter of fiscal 2023. Philanthropy The Autodesk Foundation (the Foundation ), a privately funded 501(c)(3) charity organization established and solely funded by us, leads our philanthropic efforts. The purpose of the Foundation is twofold: to su