ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Overview and Description of Major Subsidiaries AEP was incorporated under the laws of the State of New York in 1906 and reorganized in 1925. It is a public utility holding company that owns, directly or indirectly, all of the outstanding common stock of its public utility subsidiaries and varying percentages of other subsidiaries. The service areas of AEP s public utility subsidiaries cover portions of the states of Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia. Transmission networks are interconnected with extensive distribution facilities in the territories served. The public utility subsidiaries of AEP have traditionally provided electric service, consisting of generation, transmission and distribution, on an integrated basis to their retail customers. Restructuring laws in Michigan, Ohio and the ERCOT area of Texas have caused AEP public utility subsidiaries in those states to unbundle previously integrated regulated rates for their retail customers. The member companies of AEP have contractual, financial and other business relationships with the other member companies, such as participation in AEP savings and retirement plans and tax returns, sales of electricity and transportation and handling of fuel. The member companies of AEP also obtain certain accounting, administrative, information systems, engineering, financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost from a common provider, AEPSC. As of December 31, 2023, the subsidiaries of AEP had a total of 17,250 employees. Because it is a holding company rather than an operating company, AEP has no employees. Information related to AEP subsidiary operating companies as of December 31, 2023 is shown in the table below: AEP Texas AEPTCo APCo I M KGPCo (a) KPCo OPCo (b) PSO SWEPCo WPCo State of Incorporation Delaware, 1925 Delaware, 2006 Virginia, 1926 Indiana, 1907 Virginia, 1917 Kentucky, 1919 Ohio, 1907 Oklahoma, 1913 Delaware, 1912 West Virginia, 1883 AEP Reportable Segment Transmission and Distribution Utilities AEP Transmission Holdco Vertically Integrated Utilities Vertically Integrated Utilities Vertically Integrated Utilities Vertically Integrated Utilities Transmission and Distribution Utilities Vertically Integrated Utilities Vertically Integrated Utilities Vertically Integrated Utilities RTO Affiliation ERCOT (c) PJM PJM PJM PJM PJM SPP SPP PJM Approximate Number of Retail Customers 1,111,000 (c) 967,000 613,000 49,000 163,000 1,527,000 578,000 548,000 41,000 Number of Employees 1,646 (c) 1,679 2,110 56 284 1,752 1,062 1,344 230 Overhead Circuit Miles of Transmission and Distribution Lines 46,673 4,188 51,558 20,584 1,405 11,210 44,519 18,156 26,233 1,722 (a) KGPCo does not own any generating facilities and purchases electric power from APCo for distribution to its customers. (b) OPCo purchases energy and capacity at auction to serve generation service customers who have not switched to a competitive generation supplier. (c) AEPTCo is a holding company for the State Transcos. Five State Transcos are members of PJM and two State Transcos are members of SPP. Neither AEPTCo nor its subsidiaries have any employees. Instead, AEPSC and certain AEP utility subsidiaries provide services to these entities. Service Company Subsidiary AEPSC is a service company subsidiary that provides accounting, administrative, information systems, engineering, financial, legal, maintenance and other services at cost to AEP subsidiaries. The executive officers of AEP and certain of the executive officers of its public utility subsidiaries are employees of AEPSC. As of December 31, 2023, AEPSC had 6,736 employees. 1 Principal Industries Served The following table illustrates the principal industries and wholesale electric markets served by AEP s public utility subsidiaries. AEP Texas APCo I M KGPCo KPCo OPCo PSO SWEPCo WPCo Principal Industries Served: Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing X X X X X Chemical Manufacturing X X X X X X X X Oil and Gas Extraction X X X X Pipeline Transportation X X X X X X Primary Metal Manufacturing X X X X X X Data Processing (a) X X Coal-Mining X X X Paper Manufacturing X X X X Transportation Equipment X X Plastics and Rubber Products X X X X Fabricated Metals Product Manufacturing X Food Manufacturing X Supply and Market Electric Power at Wholesale to: Other Electric Utility Companies X X X X X X Rural Electric Cooperatives X X X Municipalities X X X X X Other Market Participants X X X X X X (a) Primarily includes data centers and cryptocurrency operations. Public Utility Subsidiaries by Jurisdiction The following table illustrates certain regulatory information with respect to the jurisdictions in which the public utility subsidiaries of AEP operate: Principal Jurisdiction AEP Utility Subsidiaries Operating in that Jurisdiction Authorized Return on Equity (a) Arkansas SWEPCo 9.50 % FERC AEPTCo - PJM 10.35 % (b) AEPTCo - SPP 10.50 % Indiana I M 9.70 % Kentucky KPCo 9.75 % (c) Louisiana SWEPCo 9.50 % Michigan I M 9.86 % Ohio OPCo 9.70 % Oklahoma PSO 9.30 % Tennessee KGPCo 9.50 % Texas AEP Texas 9.40 % SWEPCo 9.25 % (d) Virginia APCo 9.50 % West Virginia APCo 9.75 % WPCo 9.75 % (a) Identifies the predominant current authorized ROE, and may not include other, less significant, permitted recovery. Actual ROE varies from authorized ROE. (b) In December 2022, the FERC issued an order removing the 50 basis point RTO incentive from OHTCo transmission formula rates effective February 2022, reducing OHTCo s authorized ROE to 9.85%. (c) The KPSC issued an order approving a 9.75% ROE, effective January 2024. See 2023 Kentucky Base Rate and Securitization Case section of Note 4 for additional information. (d) In February 2022, as part of the 2020 Texas Base Rate Case, SWEPCo filed a motion for rehearing with the PUCT alleging several errors in the final order, which included a challenge of the approved ROE. In April 2022, the PUCT denied the motion for rehearing. In May 2022, SWEPCo filed a petition for review with the Texas District Court seeking a judicial review of the several errors challenged in the PUCT s final order. See 2020 Texas Base Rate Case section of Note 4 for additional information. 2 CLASSES OF SERVICE AEP and subsidiaries recognize revenues from customers for retail and wholesale electricity sales and electricity transmission and distribution delivery services. AEP s subsidiaries within the Vertically Integrated Utilities, Transmission and Distribution Utilities, AEP Transmission Holdco and Generation Marketing segments derive revenue from the following sources: Retail Revenues, Wholesale and Competitive Retail Revenues, Other Revenues from Contracts with Customers and Alternative Revenues. For further information relating to the sources of revenue for the Registrants, see Note 19 - Revenues from Contracts with Customers for additional information. FINANCING General AEP subsidiaries generally use short-term debt to finance working capital needs. Short-term debt may also be used to finance acquisitions, construction and redemption or repurchase of outstanding securities until such needs can be financed with long-term debt. In recent history, short-term funding needs have been provided for by cash from operations, AEP s commercial paper program and term loan issuances. Funds are made available to subsidiaries under the AEP corporate borrowing program. Certain public utility subsidiaries of AEP also sell accounts receivable to provide liquidity. See Financial Condition section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2023 Annual Report for additional information. AEP s revolving credit agreements (which backstop the commercial paper program) include covenants and events of default typical for these types of facilities, including a maximum debt/capital test. In addition, the acceleration of AEP s payment obligations, or the obligations of certain of its major subsidiaries, prior to maturity under any other agreement or instrument relating to debt outstanding in excess of $50 million, would cause an event of default under the credit agreements. As of December 31, 2023, AEP was in compliance with its debt covenants. With the exception of a voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency, any event of default has either or both a cure period or notice requirement before termination of the applicable agreement. A voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency of AEP or one of its significant subsidiaries would be considered an immediate termination event. See Financial Condition section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2023 Annual Report for additional information. AEP s subsidiaries have also utilized, and expect to continue to utilize, additional financing arrangements, such as securitization financings and leasing arrangements. ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS General AEP subsidiaries are currently subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air and water-quality control, solid and hazardous waste disposal and other environmental matters, and are subject to zoning and other regulation by local authorities. The current and proposed environmental laws and regulations discussed below will have an impact on AEP s operations. Management continues to monitor developments in these regulations and evaluate the economic feasibility and refine cost estimates for compliance. For additional information on the laws and regulations discussed below, see Environmental Issues section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in the 2023 Annual Report. Clean Air Act Requirements (CAA) The CAA establishes a comprehensive program to protect and improve the nation s air quality and control sources of air emissions. The states implement and administer many of these programs and could impose additional or more stringent requirements. The primary regulatory programs that continue to drive investments in AEP s existing generating units include: (a) periodic revisions to NAAQS and the development of SIPs to achieve more stringent standards, (b) implementation of the regional haze program by the states and the Federal EPA, (c) regulation of hazardous air pollutant emissions under MATS, (d) implementation and review of CSAPR and (e) the Federal EPA s regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from fossil generation under Section 111 of the CAA. 3 Clean Water Act Requirements The Federal EPA s ELG rule for generation facilities establishes limits for FGD wastewater, fly ash and bottom ash transport water and flue gas mercury control wastewater, which are implemented through each facility s wastewater discharge permit. In March 2023, the Federal EPA proposed further revisions to the ELG rule which, if finalized, would establish a zero discharge standard for FGD wastewater and bottom ash transport water, and more stringent discharge limits for combustion residual leachate. Management cannot predict whether the Federal EPA will actually finalize further revisions but will continue to monitor this issue and its potential impact to operations. Coal Ash Regulation The Federal EPA s CCR rule regulates the disposal and beneficial re-use of CCR, including fly ash and bottom ash created from coal-fired generating units and FGD gypsum generated at some coal-fired plants. The rule applies to active and inactive CCR landfills and surface impoundments at facilities of active electric utility or independent power producers. In May 2023, the Federal EPA proposed revisions to the CCR Rule to expand the scope of the rule to include inactive impoundments at inactive facilities ( legacy CCR surface impoundments ) as well as to establish requirements for currently exempt solid waste management units that involve the direct placement of CCR on the land ( CCR management units ). The Federal EPA is proposing that owners and operators of legacy surface impoundments comply with all of the existing CCR Rule requirements applicable to inactive CCR surface impoundments at active facilities, except for the location restrictions and liner design criteria. The proposal establishes accelerated compliance deadlines for legacy surface impoundments to meet regulatory requirements, including a requirement to initiate closure within one year after the effective date of the final rule. The Federal EPA's proposal would require evaluations to be completed at both active facilities and inactive facilities with one or more legacy surface impoundments. If finalized, AEP may incur material, additional costs complying with the Federal EPA s proposal, including costs to upgrade or close and replace legacy CCR surface impoundments and to conduct any required remedial actions including removal of coal ash. In addition, AEP would need to seek cost recovery through regulated rates, including proposing new regulatory mechanisms for cost recovery, for which regulatory approval cannot be assured. The proposed rule, if finalized, could have a material adverse impact on net income, cash flows and financial condition if AEP cannot ultimately recover any additional costs of compliance. Climate Change, CO 2 Regulation and Energy Policy To date, the Federal EPA has twice taken action to regulate CO 2 emissions from new and existing fossil fueled electric generating units under the existing provisions of the CAA and both attempts have been struck down by the courts. In May 2023, the Federal EPA proposed greenhouse gas standards and guidelines for new and existing fossil-fuel fired sources. The proposal relies heavily on carbon capture and sequestration and natural gas co-firing as means to reduce CO 2 emissions from coal fired plants and hydrogen co-firing and carbon capture and sequestration to reduce CO 2 emissions from gas turbines. Management is evaluating the proposed rule. Other Environmental Issues and Matters The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 imposes costs for environmental remediation upon owners and previous owners of sites, as well as transporters and generators of hazardous material disposed of at such sites. See The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund) and State Remediation section of Note 6 included in the 2023 Annual Report for additional information. Electric Industry Transformation The electric utility industry is in the midst of an historic transformation, driven by changing customer needs, evolving public policies, stakeholder demands, demographics, competitive offerings, technologies and commodity prices. AEP is also transforming to be more agile and customer-focused as a valued provider of energy solutions. AEP routinely submits IRPs in various regulatory jurisdictions to address future generation and capacity needs. These IRPs take into account economics, customer demand, grid reliability and resilience, regulations and RTO capacity requirements. The objective of the IRPs is to recommend future generation and capacity resources that provide the most cost-efficient and reliable power to customers. Based on the results of the IRPs, management expects emissions to continue to decline over time as AEP diversifies generating sources and operates fewer coal units. The projected decline in coal-fired generation is due to a number of factors, including the ongoing cost of operating older units, the relative cost of coal and natural gas as fuel sources, increasing environmental regulations requiring significant capital investments and changing commodity market fundamentals. As of December 31, 2023, AEP s generating capacity included owned and PPA capacity of approximately 23,300 MWs and 5,200 MWs, respectively. In 2023, owned and PPA coal capacity represented 42% of AEP s generating capacity compared with 70% in 2005. 4 The graph below summarizes AEP s generating capacity by resource type for the years 1999, 2005 and 2023: (a) Energy Efficiency/Demand Response represents avoided capacity rather than physical assets. In addition, certain states AEP subsidiaries serve have established mandatory or voluntary programs to increase the use of energy efficiency, alternative energy or renewable energy sources. Management actively monitors AEP s compliance position and is on pace to meet the relevant requirements or benchmarks in each applicable jurisdiction. As of December 31, 2023, AEP s regulated utilities had long-term contracts for 2,750 MWs of wind, 80 MWs of hydro and 65 MWs of solar power. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, AEP s regulated utilities own and operate 1,639 MWs of wind, 816 MWs of hydro and 41 MWs of solar power. End Use Energy Efficiency Beginning in 2008, AEP ramped up efforts to reduce energy consumption and peak demand through the introduction of additional energy efficiency and demand response programs. These programs, commonly and collectively referred to as demand side management, were implemented in jurisdictions where appropriate cost recovery was available. Since that time, AEP operating company programs have reduced annual consumption by over 10.5 million MWhs and peak demand by approximately 3,600 MWs. Management estimates that its operating companies spent approximately $1.7 billion since 2008 to achieve these levels . Energy efficiency and demand reduction programs have received regulatory support in most of the states AEP serves, and appropriate cost recovery will be essential for AEP operating companies to continue and expand these consumer offerings. Appropriate recovery of program costs, lost revenues, and an opportunity to earn a reasonable return ensures that energy efficiency programs are considered equally with supply side investments. As AEP continues to transition to a cleaner, more efficient energy future, energy efficiency and demand response programs will continue to play an important role in how the company serves its customers. Management believes its experience providing robust energy efficiency programs in several states positions AEP to be a cost-effective provider of these programs as states develop their implementation plans. 5 Corporate Governance In response to environmental issues and in connection with its assessment of AEP s strategic plan, the Board of Directors continually reviews the risks posed by new environmental rules and requirements that could alter the retirement date of coal-fired generation assets. The Board of Directors is informed of new environmental regulations and proposed environmental regulations or legislation that would significantly affect AEP. In addition, the Board holds extended meetings twice a year to provide extra time for a more robust review of the Company s strategy, including discussions about carbon and carbon risk. The Board s Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance oversees AEP s annual Corporate Sustainability Report, which includes information about AEP s environmental, social, governance and financial performance. In 2023, AEP also established a Climate Change Executive Group to ensure appropriate management and accountability concerning climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities. AEP routinely submits IRPs in various regulatory jurisdictions to address future generation and capacity needs. These IRPs take into account economics, customer demand, grid reliability and resilience, regulations and RTO capacity requirements. The objective of the IRPs is to recommend future generation and capacity resources that provide the most cost-efficient and reliable power to customers. Based on the output of the company s IRPs, in October 2022, AEP announced new intermediate and long-term CO 2 emission reduction goals. AEP adjusted its near-term CO 2 emission reduction target from a 2000 baseline to a 2005 baseline, upgraded its 80% reduction by 2030 target to include full Scope 1 emissions and accelerated its net-zero goal by five years to 2045 for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. AEP s total Scope 1 GHG estimated emissions in 2023 were approximately 42.8 million metric tons, a 68% reduction according to the GHG Protocol, which excludes emission reductions that result from assets that have been sold , or a 72% reduction from AEP s 2005 Scope 1 GHG emissions (inclusive of emission reductions that result from plants that have been sold). AEP has made significant progress in reducing CO 2 emissions from its power generation fleet and expects its emissions to continue to decline over the long-term. AEP also expects Scope 1 GHG emissions to vary annually depending on the mix of its own generation and purchased power used to serve customers. AEP s ability to achieve these goals is dependent upon a number of factors including the ability to execute on renewable resource plans, evolving RTO requirements, constructive regulatory support, the advancement of carbon-free generation technologies, customer demand for carbon-free energy, potential tariffs, carbon policy and regulation, operational performance of renewable generation and supply chain costs and constraints, all while continuing to provide the most cost-efficient and reliable power to customers. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Attracting, developing and retaining high-performing employees with the skills and experience needed to serve our customers efficiently and effectively is crucial to AEP s growth and competitiveness and is central to our long-term strategy. AEP invests in employees and continues to build a high performance and inclusive culture that inspires leadership, encourages innovative thinking and welcomes everyone. The following table shows AEP s number of employees by subsidiary as of December 31, 2023: Subsidiary Number of Employees AEPSC 6,736 AEP Texas 1,646 APCo 1,679 I M 2,110 OPCo 1,752 PSO 1,062 SWEPCo 1,344 Other 921 Total AEP 17,250 Of AEP s 17,250 employees, less than 0.1% are Traditionalists (born before 1946), approximately 17% are Baby Boomers (born 1946-1964), approximately 36% are Generation X (born 1965-1980), approximately 39% are Millennials (born 1981-1996) and approximately 7% are Generation Z (born after 1996). 6 Safety Safety is deeply embedded in our culture and is one of AEP s core values because we care that everyone goes home at the end of each work day. We have policies, procedures, programs, training and proactive initiatives in place to help ensure a safe mindset and work environment. Unfortunately, in 2023, we suffered three devastating losses as two employees and one contractor lost their lives. The loss of a single life is unacceptable and we are determined to learn from each event, independently, so we can take action to better protect our employees and all those who support us. These events reinforce the importance of our endless commitment to a strong safety culture and the work it takes to operate safely. We are committed to taking bold steps to fundamentally embed layers of protection in the work we do. This includes focusing our efforts to prevent serious injuries and fatalities, strengthening pre-job briefing effectiveness, learning from significant incidents, providing appropriate training and education and improving proactive safety initiatives and data analysis to identify and address potential performance gaps. One common industry safety metric utilized by AEP to track incidents is the Days Away/Restricted or Transferred (DART) rate. A DART event is an event that results in one or more lost days, one or more restricted days, or results in an employee transferring to a different job within the company. The DART rate is a mathematical calculation (number of DART events multiplied by 200,000 and divided by total YTD hours worked) that describes the number of injuries per 100 full-time employees. In 2023, AEP s employee DART rate performance improved to 0.384 as compared to 0.424 in 2022. Culture and Inclusion Culture serves as the foundation for success at AEP. An engaged, collaborative, inclusive and appreciated workforce is an empowered workforce one that is more likely to embrace change, drive continuous improvement, take ownership, and value personal and professional growth. AEP views a culture of inclusion as a core business value that creates understanding, sparks innovation and allows us to better serve our customers. We are committed to building a work culture that champions respect and belonging, that leverages our differences as a strength. Inclusion is important to ensuring that AEP has the best talent to move our company forward and achieve business objectives. Our inclusion efforts are guided by four principles: Establishing leadership accountability around culture and inclusion outcomes. Building and maintaining a workforce that generally reflects the communities we serve. Promoting an inclusive culture where all employees can thrive. Supporting the communities we serve so they will prosper. We believe our workforce generally should re ect the diversity of our customers and the communities we serve so that we may better understand how to tailor our services to meet their expectations. As of December 31, 2023, women comprised approximately 20% of AEP s total workforce. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 21% of AEP s total workforce was represented by racially or ethnically diverse employees. Our progress is tied to enterprise, business unit and operating company annual incentive compensation objectives, which is measured through our annual employee culture survey. 2023 marks our tenth consecutive year of formally surveying employees about their experiences with culture at AEP. In 2023, 94% of our organization participated in the survey, and we continued to improve our performance remaining in the top decile compared to Gallup s overall company database. The culture survey provides a process for leaders to share results with their teams, facilitate discussions to improve employee engagement and take actions toward that improvement throughout the year. AEP s Human Resources Committee of the Board reviews the culture and employee engagement results annually, providing additional oversight. In addition, the Human Resources Committee of the Board provides oversight of our compensation and human resources policies and practices, including an annual review of our culture and inclusion strategy, and compliance with equal opportunity laws. In 2023, AEP received the Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award for the fourth consecutive year. This award recognizes organizations with engaged workplace cultures. To support a culture of inclusion, AEP launched the Culture and Inclusion Council, which consists of decision makers from across the company to help lead our culture strategy. A key focus for the council will be prioritizing our Culture Inclusion guiding principles. In addition, AEP launched the Access to Opportunity standards to enhance female and minority representation within AEP s leadership and conducted pay equity studies to identify and address pay variances for female and minority employees. We are also signatories of the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge, Paradigm for Parity and several other local and industry initiatives to demonstrate our commitment to advancing a culture of inclusion within the workplace. In addition, we re committed to working with the communities we serve to advance equity for our employees, customers and neighbors of color. The American Electric Power Foundation created the Delivering on the Dream grant program. This five-year, $5 million initial investment supports nonprofit organizations that are working to dismantle systemic racism and injustices in our communities. 7 Employee Resource Groups One of the best ways for AEP to demonstrate our commitment to a trusting and inclusive work environment is to empower employees to form and participate in Employee Resource Groups (ERG). The ERGs at AEP include Abled and Differently-Abled Partnering Together, the Black ERG, the Asian-American Employee Partnership ERG, the Hispanic Origin Latin American ERG, the Military Veteran ERG, the Native American Tribes Interacting, Observing and Networking ERG, the Pride Partnership, the Women at Work ERG and the Empowered Parents and Caregivers ERG. Encouraging engagement through one of our nine ERGs creates meaningful connections through shared experiences and learning about different cultures and lived experiences for deeper understanding and knowledge. Their strategic priorities include recruiting and retaining diverse employees, identifying and participating in community volunteerism opportunities, building cultural competency among our employees and positively impacting the business. Training and Professional Development At AEP, we are preparing our workforce for the future by providing opportunities to learn new skills and engaging higher education institutions to better prepare the next generation with the skills that we will need. AEP has a growing co-op and internship program for high school and college students. Our alliances with community colleges, universities and vocational and technical schools across our 11-state service territory support the development of our talent pipeline. We work with these institutions to develop academic programs that will prepare students for new jobs and career opportunities in our industry. AEP also provides a broad range of training and assistance that supports lifelong learning and transition development. This is especially important as we move closer toward a digital future that requires a more flexible, innovative and diverse workforce. AEP has robust processes to achieve this, including ongoing performance coaching, operational skills training, resources to support our commitment to environment, safety and health, job progression training, tuition assistance, and other forms of tr