ITEM 1 Business 2 Our Global Business Overview 2 Operating Structure 4 How We Generate Revenues and Profitability 5 Human Capital Management 5 Regulation 7 Available Information about AIG 14 ITEM 1A Risk Factors 15 ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 37 ITEM 1 C Cybersecurity 38 ITEM 2 Properties 40 ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings 40 ITEM 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 40 Part II ITEM 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 ITEM 6 [Reserved] 42 ITEM 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results 43 Use of Non-GAAP Measures 46 Critical Accounting Estimates 48 Executive Summary 57 Consolidated Results of Operations 60 Business Segment Operations 65 Investments 86 Insurance Reserves 96 Liquidity and Capital Resources 104 Enterprise Risk Management 114 Glossary 122 Acronyms 124 ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 124 ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 125 Reference to Financial Statements and Schedules 125 ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 259 ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures 259 ITEM 9B Other Information 260 ITEM 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 260 Part III ITEM 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 261 ITEM 11 Executive Compensation 262 ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 262 ITEM 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 262 ITEM 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 262 Part IV ITEM 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 263 ITEM 16 Form 10-K Summary 267 Signatures 268 AIG | 2023 Form 10-K 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS Part I ITEM 1 | Business Sustaining Industry Leadership Momentum Creating Value through Profitable Growth and a Culture of Underwriting and Operational Excellence American International Group, Inc. (NYSE: AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. AIG provides insurance solutions that help businesses and individuals in approximately 190 countries and jurisdictions protect their assets and manage risks through AIG operations and network partners. AIG is building on its industry leadership and is positioned to become a top-performing company recognized for the value it provides stakeholders in an environment of profound, complex and dynamic risk. In 2023, AIG delivered an outstanding year, producing financial, strategic and operational achievements that demonstrate continued strength in executing multiple, complex initiatives simultaneously and with quality. In this Annual Report, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms AIG, the Company, we, us and our to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term AIG Parent to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries. About AIG World-Class Insurance Franchises that are among the leaders in their geographies and segments, providing differentiated service and expertise. Breadth of Loyal Customers including millions of clients and policyholders ranging from multi-national Fortune 500 companies to individuals throughout the world. Broad and Long-Standing Distribution Relationships with brokers, agents, advisors, banks and other distributors strengthened through AIG s dedication to quality. Highly Engaged Global Workforce of more than 25,000 colleagues committed to excellence who are providing insurance solutions that help businesses and individuals in approximately 190 countries and jurisdictions protect their assets and manage risks through AIG operations and network partners. Balance Sheet Strength and Financial Flexibility as demonstrated by approximately $45 billion in shareholders equity and AIG Parent liquidity sources of $12.1 billion as of December 31, 2023. 2 AIG | 2023 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business As a leading global property, casualty and specialty insurance organization, we are results oriented and believe that focusing on how we achieve positive outcomes creates an aligned and inclusive culture that enables further progress. Unifying under one set of clear and directive Purpose and Values empowers AIG colleagues to be conduits of positive change delivering exceptional client service, enhanced shareholder value and a better experience for everyone we serve. AIG s five Values guide our actions: Take ownership: we set clear expectations, we are proactive, we are accountable Set the standard: we deliver quality always, we are client-centric, we lead the industry Win together: we are stronger together, we are aligned, we are one team Be an ally: we strive for inclusion, we listen and learn, we speak with our actions Do what s right: we act with integrity, we lead by example, we lift up our communities 2023 Highlights and 2024 Priorities Execution of Multiple, Highly Complex Strategic Initiatives Repositioned AIG s portfolio of businesses for sustainable, profitable growth with the divestitures of Validus Reinsurance, Ltd. (Validus Re) and Crop Risk Services, Inc. (CRS) and the transfer of Private Client Select to an independent Managing General Agent platform Closed sale of Validus Re, including AlphaCat Managers Ltd. and the Talbot Treaty reinsurance business, for $3.3 billion in cash including pre-closing dividend Closed sale of CRS for gross proceeds of $234 million United General Insurance and AIG Parent leadership teams and their organizations Debuted AIG Next, creating a leaner future-state business model and establishing enterprise-wide standards to drive better outcomes for all stakeholders Continued Balanced Capital Management Supporting Financial Strength, Growth and Shareholder Return Repurchased $3.0 billion of AIG's common stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock) and paid $1.0 billion of dividends Reduced weighted average diluted shares outstanding by 8 percent, reaching 725.2 million shares Increased quarterly common stock dividend payments by 12.5 percent $0.36 per share during the second quarter of 2023 Reduced general borrowings by $1.4 billion Strong Performance Resulting from Significant Improvement in Underwriting Income General Insurance achieved $2.3 billion in underwriting income, up 15 percent year over year 2023 combined ratio of 90.6 compared to 91.9 in 2022, and sub-100 in every quarter of 2023 2023 accident year combined ratio, as adjusted (a) of 87.7 improved 1.0 point compared to 88.7 in 2022 Continued Progress Towards Deconsolidation and Separation of Corebridge Financial, Inc. (Corebridge) AIG sold 159.75 million shares of Corebridge common stock in secondary public offerings with gross proceeds of $2.9 billion Corebridge repurchased 17.2 million shares of its common stock from AIG for an aggregate purchase price of $315 million Corebridge distributed dividends on Corebridge common stock totaling $1.1 billion to AIG AIG s ownership of Corebridge reduced to 52.2 percent as of December 31, 2023 Corebridge closed the sale of Laya Healthcare Limited (Laya) for 691 million ($731 million) and announced the sale of AIG Life Limited (AIG Life) for consideration of 460 million (a) Non-GAAP measure for reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measure, see Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A). AIG | 2023 Form 10-K 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Operating Structure AIG reports the results of its businesses through three segments General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. General Insurance consists of two operating segments North America and International. Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. Other Operations is primarily comprised of corporate, our institutional asset management business and consolidation and eliminations. For additional information on our business segments, see Part II, Item 7. MD A Business Segment Operations and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and for information regarding the separation of Life and Retirement, bankruptcy filing of AIG Financial Products Corp. and the sale of Validus Re, CRS, AIG Life and Laya, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Segments General Insurance Life and Retirement General Insurance is a leading provider of insurance products and services for commercial and personal insurance customers. It includes one of the world s most far-reaching property casualty networks. General Insurance offers a broad range of products to customers through a diversified, multichannel distribution network. Customers value General Insurance s strong capital position, extensive risk management and claims experience and its ability to be a market leader in critical lines of the insurance business. Life and Retirement is a unique franchise that brings together a broad portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional products offered through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. It holds long-standing, leading market positions in many of the markets it serves in the U.S. With its strong capital position, customer-focused service, breadth of product expertise and deep distribution relationships across multiple channels, Life and Retirement is well positioned to serve growing market needs. General Insurance includes the following major operating companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union); American Home Assurance Company (American Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); AIG General Insurance Company, Ltd.; AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd.; AIG Europe S.A.; American International Group UK Ltd.; Talbot Holdings Ltd. (Talbot); Western World Insurance Company and Glatfelter Insurance Group (Glatfelter). Life and Retirement includes the following major operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company (AGL); The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC); The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (U.S. Life) and AIG Life. Other Operations Other Operations primarily consists of income from assets held by AIG Parent and other corporate subsidiaries, deferred tax assets related to tax attributes, corporate expenses and intercompany eliminations, our institutional asset management business and results of our consolidated investment entities, General Insurance portfolios in run-off as well as the historical results of our legacy insurance lines ceded to Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd. (Fortitude Re). 4 AIG | 2023 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business How We Generate Revenues and Profitability We earn revenues primarily from insurance premiums, policy fees and income from investments. Our expenses consist of policyholder benefits and losses incurred, interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products, interest expense and general operating expenses. Our profitability is dependent on our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance and annuity products, including establishing loss reserves, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively and to control costs through expense discipline. For additional information on loss reserves and prior year loss development, see Part II, Item 7. MD A Critical Accounting Estimates Loss Reserves, Part II, Item 7. MD A Insurance Reserves Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses (Loss Reserves), and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on investment strategies, see Part II, Item 7. MD A Investments Investment Strategies. Human Capital Management Our people are our greatest strength. To this end, we place significant focus on human capital management; namely retaining, developing and attracting high caliber talent and fostering an inclusive environment in which we actively seek and embrace diverse thinking. Our Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (CMRC) is responsible for overseeing human capital management practices and programs, including retention, talent development, compensation and benefits, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Management periodically reports to the CMRC on our various human capital management initiatives and metrics. At December 31, 2023, we had approximately 25,200 employees based in approximately 50 countries, of which 32 percent are located in North America, 44 percent are in the Asia Pacific region and the remaining 24 percent are in the European, Middle East and Africa (EMEA region) and Latin America. We believe that we foster a constructive and healthy work environment for our employees. The key programs and initiatives that are designed to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include: Competitive Compensation and Benefits. We seek to align compensation with individual and Company performance and provide the appropriate market-competitive incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve outstanding results. Management and the CMRC engage the services of third-party compensation consultants to help monitor the competitiveness of our incentive programs. We provide a performance-driven compensation structure that consists of base salary and, for eligible employees, short- and long-term incentives. We also offer comprehensive benefits to support the health, wellness, work-life balance and retirement preparedness/savings needs of our employees, including subsidized health care plans, life and disability insurance, wellness and mental health benefits, legal assistance plan, paid time off, paid volunteer time off, 2:1 matching grants for eligible charitable donations, parental and bonding leave and both matching and Company 401(k) contributions for eligible employees. Health and Safety. The health and safety of our employees is a priority. Occupational safety and health is a shared responsibility between employees and corporate stakeholders, which we implement through our Global Safety and Environment policy. We take appropriate measures to prevent workplace injuries and illnesses, to provide a safe and healthy work environment, and to meet regulatory and duty of care responsibilities regarding the health, safety and welfare of employees engaging in AIG business activities. We offer numerous benefits and wellness programs focused on the physical, social and financial wellness of our employees. Nearly every country in which we operate has an Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which provides employees with confidential counselling, mental health resources and information to help employees and their dependents through times of stress and anxiety. In many countries where local market and regulations permit, our EAP and other programs also offer work-life balance assistance, eldercare advice, bereavement support, and legal and financial guidance. The AIG Compassionate Colleagues Fund (the Fund) enables the Company and its employees to provide direct relief to help eligible colleagues overcome unforeseen financial hardships. The Fund has helped more than 1,600 employees overcome serious financial hardships and disasters. In each of 2021, 2022 and 2023, AIG made a $2 million contribution to the Fund, and additional amounts were contributed by our colleagues through voluntary donations and our 2:1 matching grants program. Employees in approximately 23 countries have contributed to the Fund and employees in 11 countries have received relief. AIG | 2023 Form 10-K 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Talent Development. Equipping our people with the skills and capabilities to be successful and contribute to AIG is another priority. We do this by giving our employees access to meaningful tools and resources to assist in their professional development no matter where they are in their career paths. AIG offers numerous learning opportunities to support the development of its employees. All online learning programs are accessible through a global learning management system, Your Learning Journey . Through these programs, employees can increase their insurance and business knowledge, build critical job skills and earn continuing education credits. Alongside online courses, AIG offers a series of live, interactive learning opportunities designed to reinforce the Company's culture of excellence. These programs focus on providing employees with a strong foundation of core skills including communication, collaboration, coaching, change agility and problem solving. Managers and leaders are critical in developing AIG s talent for organizational success. To assess leadership skills and capabilities, we use distinct leadership assessment tools, including 360 degree feedback, which develops self-awareness and builds personalized leadership development goals. Our Leading Transformation program enhances our senior leaders ability to navigate and drive change and transformation to successfully achieve business objectives and build culture. In addition to live courses and online training, AIG also offers tuition and certification training reimbursement to encourage employees to enhance their education and skills. The Company also places significant importance on promoting internal talent and succession planning. Accordingly, we use a globally consistent streamlined process to support succession planning and talent development for each of our functions and operating segments. This approach helps identify a pipeline of diverse talent for positions at all levels of the organization and the actions needed to support their development. In 2023, 33 percent of all our open positions were filled with internal talent. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI). At AIG, we strive to create an inclusive workplace that provides equal opportunities for all colleagues. We believe in building a culture where everyone is valued and celebrated for who they are and where all perspectives are welcome. As of December 31, 2023, 54 percent of our global workforce were female and 34 percent of our U.S. workforce is ethnically diverse. AIG sponsors over 110 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are groups of employees who come together based on a shared interest in a specific identity in 45 countries to enhance allyship and inclusion across the organization. AIG s global ERG network spans 13 different dimensions of diversity and is open to all employees. The ERGs are key to fostering an inclusive workplace that provides a safe space for colleagues to engage, learn, give back to our communities, and provide feedback from their perspective to the business. The ERGs also support and advise company practices and programs to drive a committed culture of belonging and deliver company value, as well as serve as an incubator for developing future leaders. AIG also provides DEI learning opportunities to create awareness and educate on inclusive leadership, allyship, cross-cultural dynamics and fostering inclusion, including DEI microlearning and sessions on authentic leadership. 6 AIG | 2023 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Regulation GENERAL Our (re)insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which our (re)insurance businesses are located or operate. Insurance regulatory authorities in those jurisdictions are the primary regulators for those businesses; however, our operations are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives and investment advisory regulators in the United States and abroad. Insurance regulators, other regulatory authorities, law enforcement agencies, and other governmental authorities from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations regarding our compliance, as well as compliance by other companies in our industry, with applicable laws. In addition, regulation, legislation and administrative policies that are not limited in application solely to the insurance market may significantly affect the insurance industry and certain of our operations, including regulation, legislation and administrative policies related to privacy, cybersecurity, government sanctions, pensions, age and sex discrimination, financial services, securities, taxation and climate change. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Regulation "Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability". We expect that the U.S. and international regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Regulation "New laws and regulations or new interpretations of current laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally, may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively". FINANCIAL, MARKET CONDUCT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERSIGHT The method of insurance regulation of our (re)insurance subsidiaries varies, but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to a state insurance official (in the United States) or another governmental agency (outside the United States). The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the financial condition of the (re)insurers, corporate conduct and market conduct activities. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than the creditors or equity owners of these companies. Financial, market conduct and corporate conduct oversight varies by jurisdiction, but can include activities such as: (a) approval of policy language and rates; (b) advertising practices; (c) establishing minimum capital and liquidity requirements; (d) licensing of insurers and their agents; (e) requiring registration and periodic reporting by (re)insurance companies that are licensed in the jurisdiction; (f) evaluating and, in some cases, requiring regulatory approval of, certain transactions between (re)insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates; (g) imposing restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by a (re)insurance company; (h) enforcing rules related to outsourcing of material functions; (i) requiring deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; (j) establishing requirements for acceptability of reinsurers and credit for reinsurance; (k) establishing requirements for reserves; and (l) enterprise risk management (including technology risk management) and corporate governance requirements. Our (re)insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations that prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments they can make and permissible investment practices, such as derivatives, securities lending and repurchase transactions. In non-U.S. jurisdictions, our (re)insurance subsidiaries may also be subject to laws requiring certain amounts and types of local investment. In addition, certain affiliates of our (re)insurance affiliates are themselves subject to laws and regulations concerning the investment advisory and investment management services they provide to our (re)insurance subsidiaries and other clients with respect to such investments. Insurance laws in many jurisdictions also provide that no person, corporation or other entity may acquire control of an insurance company, or a controlling interest in (or prescribed percentage of capital of) any direct or indirect parent company of an insurance company, without the prior approval of, or notice to, such insurance company s domiciliary insurance regulator. AIG | 2023 Form 10-K 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, AIG Parent depends on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. U.S. state insurance laws typically provide that dividends in excess of certain prescribed limits are considered to be extraordinary dividends and require prior approval or non-disapproval from the applicable insurance regulator. Outside the U.S., (re)insurers, subject to certain exceptions, are permitted to pay dividends subject to maintaining prescribed capital and solvency requirements and ensuring that dividends are made out of profits/retained earnings. Further, as part of their regulatory oversight processes, insurance regulators conduct periodic examinations of our (re)insurance subsidiaries. Such examinations can cover a broad scope of the (re)insurance subsidiary s operations, including the financial strength of the (re)insurance subsidiary; sales, marketing and claims handling practices; risk management; capital and liquidity management; and information technology operations (including emerging technology risks). Insurance and securities regulators and other law enforcement agencies and attorneys general also, from time to time, make inquiries, issue data calls and conduct examinations or investigations regarding compliance with insurance and other laws or for informational purposes that can be company-specific or part of a broader industry-wide effort. There can be no assurance that any noncompliance with such applicable laws, regulations or guidance would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. REGULATORY REGIMES United States States At the state-level, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a standard-setting and regulatory support organization created and governed by the chief insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The NAIC is not a regulator, but, with assistance from the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer reviews and coordinate regulatory oversight. Model laws and regulations promulgated by the NAIC only become effective in a state once formally adopted by such state and are subject to revision by each state. Examples of NAIC models adopted, in substantial part, by all states include: The Risk-Based Capital (RBC) for Insurers Model Act, which incorporates an RBC formula calculated in accordance with instructions updated annually by the NAIC that is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer s total adjusted capital, as calculated pursuant to the RBC formula, in relation to certain risks inherent in its business, and authorizes certain regulatory actions regarding insurers whose RBC levels fall below specific thresholds. The NAIC has adopted, or is considering, several changes impacting how RBC is calculated, including initiatives aimed at a comprehensive review of the RBC investment framework as well as a proposed modeling methodology to determine RBC for collateralized loan obligations and other structured securities to reduce reliance on the use of rating agency ratings. The RBC levels of each of our U.S. domiciled (re)insurance companies exceeded each of these specific thresholds as of December 31, 2023. In addition to RBC requirements, the insurance laws of our domiciliary states prescribe certain minimum capital and surplus requirements for insurance companies. If any of our (re)insurance entities fell below prescribed levels of statutory capital and surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital or other types of support to that entity. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7. MD A Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries Insurance Companies. The Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act and the Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation (together, the Holding Company Models) include: provisions authorizing insurance commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups and participate in international supervisory colleges; standards for transactions between a domestic (re)insurance company and its affiliates and regulatory approval requirements for certain of such transactions; requirements for obtaining regulatory approval for acquiring control of a domestic (re)insurance company; and the requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with its lead state regulator identifying risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of its licensed insurers or the insurance holding company system as a whole, among other requirements. The New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) is AIG s lead U.S.-state regulator, and leads AIG s Supervisory College meetings, which consist of AIG s key global regulatory bodies. The Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act, which requires that insurers maintain a risk management framework, conduct an internal own risk and solvency assessment of the insurer s material risks in normal and stressed environments, and submit annual Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) summary reports to the insurance group s lead U.S.-state regulator. The Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Act (CGAD), which requires insurers to submit an annual filing regarding their corporate governance structure, policies and practices. And, specific to our life insurance subsidiaries, the NAIC's new Valuation Manual, which contains a principle-based reserving (PBR) approach to life insurance company reserves. PBR is designed to tailor the reserving process to more closely reflect the risks of specific products rather th