ITEM 1. Business 2 Our Global Business Overview 2 Operating Structure 5 Diversified Mix of Businesses 6 Human Capital Management 8 Regulation 10 Available Information about AIG 23 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 24 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 51 ITEM 2. Properties 51 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 51 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 Part II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 53 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 54 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information 54 Use of Non-GAAP Measures 57 Critical Accounting Estimates 59 Executive Summary 75 Consolidated Results of Operations 83 Business Segment Operations 88 Investments 116 Insurance Reserves 126 Liquidity and Capital Resources 139 Enterprise Risk Management 151 Glossary 172 Acronyms 175 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 176 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 177 Reference to Financial Statements and Schedules 177 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 319 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 319 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 319 Part III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 320 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 320 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 320 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 320 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 320 Part IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 320 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 325 Signatures 326 AIG | 2021 Form 10-K 1 Part I ITEM 1 | Business Maximizing Industry Leadership and Global Footprint Creating Value through Profitable Growth and a Culture of Underwriting and Operational Excellence American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. We provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement solutions and other financial services to customers in approximately 70 countries and jurisdictions. These diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In 2021, AIG delivered strong financial results in General Insurance and Life and Retirement while executing on strategic imperatives such as our capital management plan; the separation of Life and Retirement from AIG; and AIG 200, our global, multi-year effort focused on positioning AIG for the future. Additionally, AIG s pivot in General Insurance from remediation to profitable growth through disciplined underwriting, new business development and renewals continues, as demonstrated through strong double-digit net premium written growth, improved retention across the portfolio and meaningful improvement in the combined ratio. The pursuit of excellence by AIG colleagues allowed us to accomplish all of this despite the global challenges faced as a result of COVID-19 and elevated catastrophic activity. In this Annual Report, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms AIG, the Company, we, us and our to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term AIG Parent to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries. 2 AIG | 2021 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business About AIG World-Class Insurance Franchises that are among the leaders in their geographies and segments, providing differentiated service and expertise. Breadth of Loyal Customers including millions of clients and policyholders ranging from multi-national Fortune 500 companies to individuals throughout the world. Broad and Long-Standing Distribution Relationships with brokers, agents, advisors, banks and other distributors strengthened through AIG s dedication to quality. Highly Engaged Global Workforce of more than 36,000 colleagues committed to excellence who are providing services in approximately 70 countries and jurisdictions. Balance Sheet Strength and Financial Flexibility as demonstrated by over $65 billion in shareholders equity and AIG Parent liquidity sources of $15.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. 2022 Priorities Underwriting Excellence, Pricing Discipline and Clarity of Risk Appetite Continue to enhance General Insurance portfolio optimization through strength of underwriting framework and guidelines as well as clear communication of risk appetite and rate adequacy. Continue long-standing disciplined approach in Life and Retirement with respect to product pricing and features. Separation of Life and Retirement Business from AIG Continue progress on the separation of the Life and Retirement business from AIG in a manner intended to maximize value for shareholders and other stakeholders and establish two strong, market-leading companies. AIG 200 Continue progress on multi-year effort to support underwriting excellence, modernize our operating infrastructure, enhance user and customer experiences and become a more unified company. Capital Management Continue to reduce debt, return capital to shareholders and invest in AIG s businesses through organic growth and operational improvements to create long-term shareholder value. Continued Focus on Profitable Growth Build on the high-quality General Insurance portfolio achieved to date by focusing on targeted growth through continued underwriting discipline, improved retention and new business development. Optimize Risk Management Optimize risk profile through disciplined underwriting, reinsurance programs and asset-liability management in the investment portfolio. Leadership, Culture and Talent Maintain focus on attracting, developing and retaining world-class employees. Further promote diversity, equity and inclusion at all levels through continued support of robust employee resource and development programs and recruitment strategies. Transparent ESG Leadership Continue strategic progress toward supporting a more sustainable, equitable and prosperous future for stakeholders by being an agent of positive change. AIG | 2021 Form 10-K 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business 2021 Highlights Strong General Insurance Performance Resulting from Significant Improvement in Global Commercial Lines Underwriting Results General Insurance achieved 2021 calendar year combined ratio of 95.8 compared to 104.3 in 2020, and sub-100 in every quarter of 2021 2021 accident year combined ratio, as adjusted (a) of 91.0 improved 3.1 points compared to 94.1 in 2020 Grew the top line while maintaining expense discipline with Net premiums written increasing 13 percent, Net premiums earned increasing 6 percent and the expense ratio improving 1.7 points Continued Solid Contribution from Life and Retirement Along with Significant Separation Progress Life and Retirement increased 2021 Adjusted pre-tax income to $3.9 billion compared to $3.5 billion in 2020, despite unfavorable mortality from COVID-19, reflecting diversified product portfolio and balanced risk profile (b) Pension risk transfer issuance of $3.7 billion in 2021 exceeding $2.3 billion in 2020 Premiums and deposits (a) of $31.0 billion, excluding retail mutual funds, grew 18 percent reflecting growth in all three Individual Retirement product lines, strong pension risk transfer issuance and solid International Life sales 4 percent (c) growth in assets under administration to $409 billion driven by favorable equity markets and strong sales Announced and completed sale of 9.9 percent equity stake to Blackstone Inc. (Blackstone) Capital Management Execution Complementing Operational Strength Returned $7.7 billion of capital to shareholders and creditors: Paid $1.1 billion of dividends Repurchased $2.6 billion of AIG common stock Reduced debt by $4.0 billion and lowered total debt and preferred stock to total capital ratio to 24.6 percent at December 31, 2021 (a) Non-GAAP measure for reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measure see Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) . (b) On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. (c) Excludes Retail Mutual Funds (i) transferred as part of the sale to Touchstone Investments or (ii) liquidated. 4 AIG | 2021 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Operating Structure AIG reports the results of its businesses through three segments General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. General Insurance consists of two operating segments North America and International. Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. Other Operations is primarily comprised of corporate, our institutional asset management business and consolidation and eliminations. Consistent with how we manage our business, our General Insurance North America operating segment primarily includes insurance businesses in the United States, Canada and Bermuda, and our global reinsurance business, AIG Re. Our General Insurance International operating segment includes regional insurance businesses in Japan, the United Kingdom, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA region), Asia Pacific, Latin America and Caribbean, and China. International also includes the results of Talbot Holdings, Ltd. as well as AIG s global specialty business. For additional information on our business segments see Part II, Item 7. MD A and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and for information regarding the separation of Life and Retirement see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Segments General Insurance General Insurance is a leading provider of insurance products and services for commercial and personal insurance customers. It includes one of the world s most far-reaching property casualty networks. General Insurance offers a broad range of products to customers through a diversified, multichannel distribution network. Customers value General Insurance s strong capital position, extensive risk management and claims experience and its ability to be a market leader in critical lines of the insurance business. Life and Retirement Life and Retirement is a unique franchise that brings together a broad portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional products offered through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. It holds long-standing, leading market positions in many of the markets it serves in the U.S. With its strong capital position, customer-focused service, breadth of product expertise and deep distribution relationships across multiple channels, Life and Retirement is well positioned to serve growing market needs. General Insurance includes the following major operating companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union); American Home Assurance Company (American Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); AIG General Insurance Company, Ltd. (AIG Sonpo); AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd.; AIG Europe S.A.; American International Group UK Ltd.; Validus Reinsurance, Ltd. (Validus Re); Talbot Holdings Ltd. (Talbot); Western World Insurance Group, Inc. and Glatfelter Insurance Group (Glatfelter). Life and Retirement includes the following major operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company (AGL); The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC); The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (U.S. Life); Laya Healthcare Limited and AIG Life Limited. Other Operations Other Operations primarily consists of income from assets held by AIG Parent and other corporate subsidiaries, deferred tax assets related to tax attributes, corporate expenses and intercompany eliminations, our institutional asset management business and results of our consolidated investment entities, General Insurance portfolios in run-off as well as the historical results of our legacy insurance lines ceded to Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd. (Fortitude Re). AIG | 2021 Form 10-K 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Diversified Mix of Businesses (dollars in millions) (a) Our Total revenues were $52.1 billion in 2021. The graph above represents Adjusted revenues. For reconciliation of Adjusted revenues to Total revenues see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) General Insurance adjusted revenues is comprised of $11.0 billion and $14.1 billion of Net premiums earned in North America and International, respectively, and $3.3 billion in Net investment income. (c) On October 26, 2020, we announced our intention to separate our Life and Retirement business from AIG. Geographic Concentration In 2021, 5.9 percent of our property casualty direct premiums were written in the state of California, and 13.6 percent and 6.9 percent were written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of our property casualty direct premiums. For additional information on our business segments see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. How We Generate Revenues and Profitability We earn revenues primarily from insurance premiums, policy fees and income from investments. Our expenses consist of policyholder benefits and losses incurred, interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products, interest expense and general operating expenses. Our profitability is dependent on our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance and annuity products, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively and to control costs through expense discipline. 6 AIG | 2021 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Investment Activities of Our Insurance Operations Our insurance companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities. The practice for managing the investments of the insurance companies places primary emphasis on meeting the specific needs of each business unit. The investment objectives are the generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus to support the insurance products. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies, as well as structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate and commercial mortgage loans. For additional information on investment strategies see Part II, Item 7. MD A Investments. Loss Reserve Development Process The liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (loss reserves) represents the accumulation of estimates for unpaid claims, including estimates for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) for our General Insurance companies and the related expenses of settling those losses. The process of establishing loss reserves is complex and inherently imprecise because it must take into consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events. As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process. Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These changes are sometimes referred to as prior year loss development , reserve development or variations thereof. For additional information on loss reserves and prior year loss development see Part II, Item 7. MD A Critical Accounting Estimates Loss Reserves, Part II, Item 7. MD A Insurance Reserves Loss Reserves, and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG | 2021 Form 10-K 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Human Capital Management We believe that our people are our greatest strength. To this end, we place the highest importance on human capital management; namely attracting, developing and retaining high caliber talent committed to our journey to becoming a top performing company and fostering an inclusive environment in which we actively seek and embrace diverse thinking. At December 31, 2021, we had approximately 36,600 employees based in approximately 50 countries, of which 48 percent are located in North America, 32 percent in the Asia Pacific region and the remaining 20 percent in the EMEA region and Latin America. We believe that we foster a constructive and healthy work environment for our employees and colleagues. Some examples of key programs and initiatives that are designed to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include: Competitive Compensation and Benefits. Under the oversight of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of our Board of Directors (CMRC), we seek to align the compensation of our employees with individual and Company performance and provide the appropriate market-competitive incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve outstanding results. Management and the CMRC engage the services of third-party compensation consultants and advisors to help us monitor the market competitiveness of our incentive programs. We provide a performance-driven compensation structure that consists of base salary and, for eligible employees, short- and long-term incentives. We also offer comprehensive benefits to support the health and wellness needs of our colleagues, including subsidized health care plans, life insurance and disability, wellness and mental health benefits, paid time off, paid volunteer time off, parental leave policies and matching 401(k) contributions and matching charitable donations, for eligible employees. Health and Safety. AIG cares about the health and safety of its employees. Occupational safety and health is a shared responsibility between employees and corporate stakeholders, which we implement through our Global Safety and Environment policy. We take appropriate measures to prevent workplace injuries and illnesses, to provide a safe and healthy work environment, and to meet regulatory and duty of care responsibilities regarding the health, safety and welfare of employees engaging in AIG business activities. For example, in response to COVID-19 in 2020, we quickly and effectively transitioned 90 percent of our employees to remote work and established a cross-functional task force to ensure that AIG implemented best practices to protect the safety of colleagues while continuing to serve clients, distribution partners and other stakeholders. Where permitted by local laws and regulations, our offices are open to fully vaccinated employees, even so we have continued our work from home availability. Mask mandates, social distancing, and office capacity limits have been implemented to comply with local law. Additionally, we have strict quarantine and contact tracing protocols in place in the event a positive COVID-19 case occurs. Nearly every country in which we operate has an Employee Assistance Program, which provides employees with mental health resources, including counseling sessions and webinars. We also funded a pandemic financial assistance program to provide financial assistance to employees in the form of low or no-interest loans. Further, in December 2020, we launched our Compassionate Colleagues Fund with an initial contribution of $2 million by AIG. The fund has helped more than 700 employees overcome serious financial hardships and disasters. Since then, voluntary employee donations together with company matches of these contributions have continued to grow the size of the fund designed to enable employees to help their fellow colleagues. Talent Development. AIG is committed to offering a multitude of learning and development opportunities for our colleagues. AIG has developed numerous programs to foster leadership, growth and development opportunities for our employees. We believe that professional development is a positive investment in our talent. Our goal is to build our employees skills and fuel a culture of development, change agility, and transformational readiness across the Company through learning and development experiences. To support this, AIG provides colleagues with a centralized destination where they can access a personalized learning platform that includes a variety of programs to support employee growth. We have also developed a core, globally consistent curriculum that focuses on key skills that are important to our business and sets up colleagues for success in their career. In addition, we offer tuition, certification and training reimbursement programs to encourage employees to enhance their education, skills and knowledge for their continued growth. The Company places significant importance and attention on promoting internal talent and succession planning. Accordingly, we review our talent development and succession plans for each of our functions and operating segments annually, to identify and develop a pipeline of diverse talent for positions at all levels of the organization. In 2021, we developed a globally consistent, streamlined process to encourage robust discussions around succession pipelines and the development of critical talent. In 2021, 28.3 percent of all our open positions were filled with internal talent. 8 AIG | 2021 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI). AIG is committed to creating an inclusive workplace focused on attracting, retaining and developing diverse talent that fosters a culture of belonging for all employees. To that end, each member of the executive leadership team has a DEI objective embedded in their individual performance goals tied to their annual short-term incentive awards. In September 2020, AIG established an Executive Diversity Council, tasked with monitoring diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives as an integral part of AIG s business strategies. In addition, in October 2020, AIG appointed a new Chief Diversity Officer to coordinate the Company s efforts in creating meaningful strides as it relates to diversity, equity and inclusion. In 2021, the Executive Diversity Council conducted a comprehensive review of the Company s global diversity representation aspirations and developed a plan to advance DEI objectives at AIG, including with respect to sourcing diverse talent at all levels of the organization. Management periodically reports to the CMRC on our various human capital management initiatives and metrics, including DEI. AIG sponsors over 130 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are groups of employees who come together based on a shared interest in a specific dimension of diversity in more than 40 countries. AIG s global ERG network spans 13 different dimensions of diversity and is open to all employees. The ERGs are a cornerstone of our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. Our ERGs represent and support our diverse workforce, connect peers, support wellness, enhance allyship, and create a culture of inclusion and engagement within AIG. AIG also provides training programs about conscious inclusion, unconscious bias and systemic racism and harassment awareness. In addition, AIG has developed several company-wide leadership programs targeted at our diverse talent pool. AIG s Women s Executive Leadership Initiative and Executive Men s Development Initiative (for men of color) seek to hone executive leadership skills of high-potential employees. Our Accelerated Leadership Development program matches mid-level individuals of color in AIG s leadership pipeline with senior executive mentors who coach them on essential senior management and executive leadership skills. In 2021, General Insurance launched its Global Sponsorship Program, which builds upon the Accelerated Leadership Program by intentionally matching mid-level diverse employees with senior leaders across the General Insurance business unit to provide mentorship and leadership training. In Life and Retirement, the Life and Retirement Executive Group, which includes the top 125 leaders in the segment, are mentoring emerging and diverse talent. Employee Engagement. AIG is committed to an engaged workforce. To improve our employee experience and assess the health of our organization, we periodically undertake cultural and employee engagement surveys. AIG conducted its first Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey in August of 2019 and its results were used to embed Health initiatives in the ten AIG 200 operational programs and provide leadership with a roadmap of the issues that were important to our colleagues. The second OHI survey was conducted in January 2021 with 77 percent of colleagues participating. It covered topics across multiple dimensions, including leadership, business operations and effectiveness, DEI and customer focus to gather colleague insights and ideas to inform initiatives across AIG. The 2021 results showed significant improvement across the Company with higher scores in many categories compared to 2019 results. Despite uncertainties presented by the pandemic, colleagues expressed appreciation for AIG s effective transition to a remote work environment and the Company s colleague-first approach, prioritizing their health and wellness. The 2021 results also highlighted modernizing the operating infrastructure as an area of opportunity. Through the AIG 200 effort, we have made progress on our Information Technology and Systems Modernization initiatives as well as established partnerships with select third parties to help us achieve a modern, digitally-enabled platform with true end-to-end processes to improve user experience. AIG | 2021 Form 10-K 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Regulation OVERVIEW Our operations are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives and investment advisory and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. The insurance and financial services industries are generally subject to close regulatory scrutiny and supervision. Insurance and other regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, attorneys general and other governmental authorities from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations regarding our compliance, as well as compliance by other companies in our industry, with applicable laws. We expect that the U.S. and international regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future. Legislators, regulators and self-regulatory organizations may also consider changes to existing laws or regulations impacting our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Regulation New laws and regulations or new interpretations of current laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally, may affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively. Additionally, while the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including pension regulation, age and sex discrimination, financial services regulation, securities regulation and federal taxation, can significantly affect the insurance industry and certain of our operations. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Regulation Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability. U.S. REGULATION Insurance Regulation. Together, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business, and are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by insurance regulators, in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The primary regulator of an insurance company, however, is located in its state of domicile. We are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws of various jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require registration and periodic reporting by (re)insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system as well as prior approval of intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends by the (re)insurance subsidiary, within the holding company system. Insurance holding company laws also generally provide that no person, corporation or other entity may acquire control of an insurance company, or a controlling interest in any direct or indirect parent company of an insurance company, without the prior approval of such insurance company s domiciliary state insurance regulator. As a holding company with no significant business operations of our own, AIG Parent depends on dividends from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. State insurance statutes typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insuran