ITEM 1. Business 3 Our Global Business Overview 3 AIG's Operating Structure 5 Diversified Mix of Businesses 6 Our Employees 7 Regulation 8 Available Information about AIG 17 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 18 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 ITEM 2. Properties 35 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 36 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 Part II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 38 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information 41 Use of Non-GAAP Measures 43 Critical Accounting Estimates 45 Executive Summary 60 Consolidated Results of Operations 67 Business Segment Operations 73 Investments 109 Insurance Reserves 122 Liquidity and Capital Resources 134 Enterprise Risk Management 146 Glossary 167 Acronyms 170 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 171 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 172 Reference to Financial Statements and Schedules 172 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 326 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 326 Part III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 327 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 327 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 327 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 327 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 327 Part IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 327 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 327 Signatures 333 Part I ITEM 1 | Business American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading global insurance organization. Building on our long history, we provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement solutions, and other financial services to customers in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions. These diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The impact of the steps that we took in 2018 and 2019 is evident in 2019 s financial performance. The improvement in General Insurance yielded full-year underwriting profitability and Life and Retirement continued to deliver solid returns despite narrowing credit spreads and the ongoing low interest rate environment. We plan to build on this momentum in 2020 to deliver strong financial results and further AIG s position as a leading global insurance company. In this Annual Report, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms AIG, the Company, we, us and our to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term AIG Parent to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries. AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business | AIG Maximizing Industry Leadership and Global Footprint About AIG World Class Insurance Franchises that are among the leaders in their geographies and segmentations, providing differentiated service and expertise. Breadth of Loyal Customers including millions of clients and policyholders ranging from multi-national Fortune 500 companies to individuals throughout the world. Broad and Long-Standing Distribution Relationships with brokers, agents, advisors, banks and other distributors across all lines of business. Highly-Engaged Global Workforce of approximately 46,000 employees in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions. Balance Sheet Quality and Strength as demonstrated by over $65 billion in shareholders equity and AIG Parent liquidity sources of $12.1 billion as of December 31, 2019. Creating Value Through Profitable Growth and Instilling a Culture of Underwriting and Operational Excellence 2020 Priorities Business Mix Targeted Growth Build on strategic portfolio improvement and product diversity by investing in attractive growth opportunities in our best-performing businesses or new areas, and optimizing our global footprint AIG 200 Execute multi-year efficiency initiatives to support underwriting excellence, modernize our operating infrastructure, enhance user and customer experiences and become a more unified company Underwriting Excellence Maintain discipline in risk selection by continuing to use recently implemented underwriting framework and guidelines to enhance the existing portfolio Capital Management Generate and redeploy capital for the best long-term value creation for shareholders Leadership, Culture and Talent Continue to attract and develop world-class employees while furthering our commitment to diversity and inclusion Effective Risk Management Continue to manage risk and volatility for the company by maintaining discipline in underwriting, optimizing reinsurance and closing the sale of our legacy portfolio 2019 Highlights General Insurance Achieved Calendar Year Underwriting Profitability 2019 Calendar Year Combined Ratio of 99.6 compared to 111.4 in 2018 and 2019 Accident Year Combined Ratio, As Adjusted of 96.0 compared to 99.7 in 2018* Underwriting profitability delivered through continued underwriting actions taken to strengthen our portfolio and to maintain pricing, reinsurance and expense discipline Life and Retirement Continued to Deliver Solid Returns Full-Year 2019 Adjusted Pre-tax Income of $3.5 billion compared to $3.2 billion in 2018 Results reflected ongoing strategy to leverage our broad product portfolio and diverse distribution network to satisfy customer needs Efficient Management of Legacy Portfolio On November 25, 2019, we announced an agreement to sell a controlling financial interest in Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC (Fortitude Holdings), the reinsurer of the majority of AIG s Legacy Portfolio, which we anticipate closing in mid-2020, subject to regulatory approvals** Growth in Net Investment Income Full-Year 2019 Consolidated Net Investment Income of $14.6 billion compared to $12.5 billion in 2018 * Non-GAAP measure for reconciliation of Non-GAAP to GAAP measure see Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A). ** For further discussion on the Fortitude Holdings transaction see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business | AIG AIG s Operating Structure Our Core businesses include General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. General Insurance consists of two operating segments North America and International. Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. Blackboard U.S. Holdings, Inc. (Blackboard), AIG s technology-driven subsidiary, is reported within Other Operations. We also report a Legacy Portfolio consisting of our run-off insurance lines and legacy investments that we consider non-core. Effective February 2018, our Bermuda-domiciled composite reinsurer, Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd (Fortitude Re) is included in our Legacy Portfolio. In November 2019, we announced the sale of a controlling financial interest in Fortitude Holdings, the holding company for Fortitude Re. There can be no guarantee that we will receive the required regulatory approvals or that closing conditions will be satisfied in order to consummate the November 2019 transaction. Consistent with how we manage our business, our General Insurance North America operating segment primarily includes insurance businesses in the United States, Canada and Bermuda. Our General Insurance International operating segment includes regional insurance businesses in Japan, the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Caribbean, Middle East and Africa, and China. General Insurance results are presented before consideration of internal reinsurance agreements. For further discussion on our business segments see Item 7. MD A and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Business Segments General Insurance General Insurance is a leading provider of insurance products and services for commercial and personal insurance customers. It includes one of the world s most far-reaching property casualty networks. General Insurance offers a broad range of products to customers through a diversified, multichannel distribution network. Customers value General Insurance s strong capital position, extensive risk management and claims experience and its ability to be a market leader in critical lines of the insurance business. Life and Retirement Life and Retirement is a unique franchise that brings together a broad portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional products offered through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. It holds long-standing, leading market positions in many of the markets it serves in the U.S. With its strong capital position, customer-focused service, breadth of product expertise and deep distribution relationships across multiple channels, Life and Retirement is well positioned to serve growing market needs. General Insurance includes the following major operating companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union); American Home Assurance Company (American Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); AIG General Insurance Company, Ltd. (AIG Sonpo); AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd.; AIG Europe S.A.; American International Group UK Ltd.; Validus Reinsurance, Ltd.; Talbot Holdings Ltd.; Western World Insurance Group, Inc. and Glatfelter Insurance Group (Glatfelter). Life and Retirement includes the following major operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company (American General Life); The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC); The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (U.S. Life); Laya Healthcare Limited and AIG Life Limited. Other Operations Other Operations consists of businesses and items not attributed to our General Insurance and Life and Retirement segments or our Legacy Portfolio. It includes AIG Parent; Blackboard; deferred tax assets related to tax attributes; corporate expenses and intercompany eliminations. Legacy Portfolio Legacy Portfolio includes Legacy Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines, Legacy General Insurance Run-Off Lines, and Legacy Investments. Effective February 2018, Fortitude Re, our Bermuda-domiciled composite reinsurer, is included in our Legacy Portfolio. On November 25, 2019, we announced an agreement to sell a controlling financial interest in Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC (Fortitude Holdings), the reinsurer of the majority of AIG s Legacy Portfolio, which we anticipate closing in mid-2020, subject to regulatory approvals. AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business | AIG Diversified Mix of Businesses (dollars in millions) * Our Total revenues were $49.7 billion in 2019. The graph above represents Adjusted revenues excluding revenues from our Legacy Portfolio operations of $3.0 billion. For reconciliation of Adjusted revenues to Total revenues see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Geographic Concentration In 2019, 5.6 percent of our property casualty direct premiums were written in the state of California, and 15.3 percent and 6.9 percent were written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of our property casualty direct premiums. For further information on our business segments see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business | AIG How We Generate Revenues and Profitability We earn revenues primarily from insurance premiums, policy fees and income from investments. Our expenses consist of policyholder benefits and losses incurred, interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products, interest expense and general operating expenses. Our profitability is dependent on our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance and annuity products, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively and to control costs through expense discipline. Investment Activities of Our Insurance Operations Our insurance companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities. The practice for managing the investments of the insurance companies places primary emphasis on meeting the specific needs of each business unit. The investment objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus to support the insurance products. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies, as well as structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate and commercial mortgage loans. For additional discussion of investment strategies see Item 7. MD A Investments. Loss Reserve Development Process The liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (loss reserves) represents the accumulation of estimates for unpaid claims, including estimates for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) for our General Insurance companies, including the related expenses of settling those losses. The process of establishing loss reserves is complex and imprecise because it must take into consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events. As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process. Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These changes are sometimes referred to as prior year loss development or reserve development. For further discussion on loss reserves and of prior year loss development see Item 7. MD A Critical Accounting Estimates Insurance Liabilities Loss Reserves, Item 7. MD A Insurance Reserves Loss Reserves, and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our Employees We believe that a major strength of AIG is the dedication, commitment and loyalty of our colleagues. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had approximately 46,000 and 49,600 employees, respectively. We believe that our relations with our colleagues are good. AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Regulation OVERVIEW Our operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives, investment advisory and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. The insurance and financial services industries generally have been subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision since the financial crisis. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do business. We expect that the domestic and international regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future. U.S. REGULATION Dodd-Frank On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which brought about the most extensive changes to financial regulation in the United States in many years, was signed into law. On July 8, 2013, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) made a determination that material financial distress at AIG could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. On September 29, 2017, the Council rescinded its determination that material financial distress at AIG could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability and as a result, AIG is no longer designated as a nonbank systemically important financial institution (nonbank SIFI). With the rescission of its designation as a nonbank SIFI, AIG is no longer subject to the consolidated supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) or subject to the enhanced prudential standards set forth in Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations. Although the Council has rescinded its designation of AIG as a nonbank SIFI, certain provisions of Dodd-Frank remain relevant to insurance groups generally. The Council has authority to determine, subject to certain statutory and regulatory standards, that any nonbank financial company be designated as a nonbank SIFI subject to supervision by the FRB and enhanced prudential standards. The Council may also recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that nonbank financial services companies, including insurers, engage in. Title II of Dodd-Frank (Orderly Liquidation Authority) provides that a financial company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the Bankruptcy Code. That process is to be administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation upon a determination that the company is: (i) in default or in danger of default, (ii) would have serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability were it to fail and be resolved, (iii) is not likely to attract private sector alternatives to default and (iv) is not suitable for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. Dodd-Frank authorizes possible assessments to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II. U.S. insurance subsidiaries of any such financial company, however, would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law. Title VII of Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that have affected and, as additional regulations come into effect, could affect various activities of insurance and other financial services companies, including (i) regulatory reporting for swaps and security-based swaps, (ii) mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated swap execution facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps and (iii) margin and collateral requirements. Although the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), which oversees and regulates the U.S. swap, commodities and futures markets, has finalized most of its requirements, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has yet to finalize the majority of rules comprising its security-based swap regulatory regime. Increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions could increase the cost of our trading and hedging activities, reduce liquidity and reduce the availability of customized hedging solutions and derivatives. Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included in the definition of "swap." If that study concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap for stable value contracts is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain of our affiliates participate in the stable value contract business. We cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study or be promulgated applicable to this business in the future. 8 AIG | 2019 Form 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Title V of Dodd-Frank authorizes the United States to enter into covered agreements with foreign governments or regulatory entities regarding the business of insurance and reinsurance. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. and the European Union (EU) entered into such an agreement, and on December 18, 2018, the U.S. signed a covered agreement with the United Kingdom (UK) in anticipation of the UK s withdrawal of its membership in the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. For additional information, see International Regulation. Dodd-Frank established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (BCFP), an independent agency within the FRB, to regulate certain non-insurance consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. Insurance products and services are not within the BCFP's general jurisdiction. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the BCFP's jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity. Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) to serve as the central insurance authority in the federal government. While not serving a regulatory function, FIO performs certain duties related to the business of insurance. FIO serves as a non-voting member of the Council, has authority to collect information on the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards, monitors market access issues, represents the United States in international insurance forums, has authority to determine, after consulting with the relevant State and the United States Trade Representative, if certain regulations are preempted by covered agreements, and assists the Secretary of the Treasury in administering the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002. On February 3, 2017, the President of the United States signed an Executive Order that directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with federal financial regulators, to assess all laws, rules and policies that regulate the U.S. financial system, including requirements put into place under Dodd-Frank since 2010, and to recommend necessary changes to make sure they conform to certain core principles. Treasury divided its review into four parts and published four reports: Banks and Credit Unions (June 12, 2017), Capital Markets (October 6, 2017), Asset Management and Insurance (October 26, 2017) and Nonbank Financials, Fintech and Innovation (July 31, 2018). In its report on insurance regulation, Treasury identified several areas for improvement at the federal and state levels and defined the role it intends for federal agencies. Among the points made in the report: Treasury expressed support for an activities-based approach to regulating systemic risk in the insurance industry rather than designating individual entities; Treasury recommended continued U.S. engagement in international standard-setting forums and charged FIO with coordinating the efforts of the federal government, state regulators, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), and other stakeholders on the issues within its scope, such as covered agreements, matters related to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program, and standard-setting at the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), including discussions regarding capital and liquidity requirements; Treasury expressed support for robust liquidity risk management programs for insurers and encouraged regulators to continue work on addressing potential liquidity risk in the insurance sector; and Treasury supported the Department of Labor (the DOL) in delaying full implementation of the final fiduciary rule issued by the DOL in April 2016 (the DOL Fiduciary Rule) until relevant issues are further evaluated and addressed by the DOL, SEC, and state insurance regulators working together. The DOL Fiduciary Rule was subsequently vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. For additional information regarding legislative and regulatory developments surrounding a standard of care for the sale of investment products and services, see U.S. Regulation ERISA and Standard of Care Developments below. In addition, on April 21, 2017 the President of the United States directed the Secretary of the Treasury to evaluate and provide recommendations regarding the Council s processes for designating nonbank SIFIs. The Treasury published a report pursuant to this directive on November 17, 2017, recommending that the Council prioritize an activities-based approach to regulating systemic risk rather than designating individual entities, and recommending that the Council increase the analytical rigor of its designation analyses, enhance engagement with relevant regulators and transparency to the public, and provide a clear off-ramp to designated nonbank SIFIs. On December 4, 2019, the Council finalized amendments to its guidance on nonbank financial company designations. The new guidance prioritizes an activities-based approach to monitoring and addressing potential systemic risk, and indicates that the Council will pursue entity specific SIFI designations only if a potential risk or threat cannot be adequately addressed through an activities-based approach. The guidance became effective on January 29, 2020. We will monitor developments resulting from these changes. AIG | 2019 Form 10-K 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1 | Business Insurance Regulation Certain states and other jurisdictions require registration and periodic reporting by (re)insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends by the (re)insurance subsidiary, within the holding company system. This legislation also requires any person or entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10 percent) of our outstanding voting securities to obtain regulatory approval prior to such purchase. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those jurisdictions that have such requirements. Our U.S. (re)insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do business. The method of such regulation varies but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to a state insurance official. The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the financial condition of the insurers and their corporate conduct and market conduct activities. This includes approval of policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, including with respect to risk-based capital, the standards on transactions between (re)insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates, including restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by (re)insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, the licensing of insurers and their agents, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of (re)insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition required to be filed, reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes and enterprise risk management and corporate governance requirements. Our (re)insurance subsidiaries are also subject to requirements on investments, which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments they can make. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than the creditors or equity owners of these companies. U.S. states have state insurance guaranty associations in which insurers doing business in the state are required by law to be members. Member insurers may be assessed by the associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess member insurers in amounts related to the member s proportionate share of the relevant type of business written by all members in the state. The protection afforded by a state s guaranty association to policyholders of insolvent insurers varies from state to state. In the U.S., the NAIC is a standard-setting and regulatory support organization created and governed by the chief insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The NAIC itself is not a regulator, but, with assistance from the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer review and coordinate regulatory oversight. Every state has adopted, in substantial part, the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Model Law promulgated by the NAIC or a substantially similar law, which allows states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, and provides four incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The RBC formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer s statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business and computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to various asset, premium, reserve and other financial statement items. These factors are developed to be risk-sensitive so that higher factors are applied to items exposed to greater risk. The statutory surplus of each of our U.S. based (re)insurance companies