Item 1. Business 5 - 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 - 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 30 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 31 Information About Our Executive Officers 31 Part II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 - 33 Item 6. [Reserved] 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 - 66 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 66 - 68 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 - 129 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 126 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 126 Item 9B. Other Information 126 Item 9C. Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 126 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 127 Item 11. Executive Compensation 127 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 127 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 127 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 127 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 127 - 129 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 129 Signatures 130 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 131 4 Part I Item 1. B usiness. Overview Arthur J. Gallagher Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to herein as we, our, us or Gallagher, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage, reinsurance brokerage, consulting, and third-party property/casualty claims settlement and administration services to entities and individuals around the world. We believe that our major strength is our ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance, reinsurance and risk management solutions, superior claim outcomes and comprehensive consulting services to our clients. Our brokerage segment operations provide brokerage and consulting services to entities of all types, including commercial, nonprofit, public sector entities, insurance companies and insurance capital providers, and to a lesser extent, individuals, in the areas of insurance and reinsurance placements, risk of loss management, and management of employer sponsored benefit programs. Our risk management segment operations provide contract claim settlement, claim administration, loss control services and risk management consulting for commercial, nonprofit, captive and public sector entities, and various other organizations that choose to self-insure property/casualty coverages or choose to use a third-party claims management organization rather than the claim services provided by an underwriting enterprise. We do not assume underwriting risk on a net basis, other than with respect to de minimis amounts necessary to provide minimum or regulatory capital to organize captives, pools, specialized underwriters or risk-retention groups. Rather, capital necessary for covering events of loss is provided by underwriting enterprises, which we define as insurance companies, reinsurance companies and various other risk-taking entities, including intermediaries of underwriting enterprises, that we do not own or control. Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from a one-person insurance agency to the world s third largest insurance broker/risk manager based on market capitalization as of December 31, 2023 and, according to Business Insurance magazine s July/August 2023 edition, to the world s fourth largest insurance broker based on revenues, and one of the world s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators, according to Business Insurance magazine s May 2023 edition. We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The brokerage and risk management segments contributed approximately 86% and 14%, respectively, to 2023 revenues. We generate approximately 64% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments in the U.S., with the remaining 36% generated internationally, primarily in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. The corporate segment did not generate revenues in 2023. Our ability to generate tax credits from qualified refined coal pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 45 (which we refer to as IRC Section 45) ended in December 2021, and in 2022 we ran off existing chemical supplies as part of the wind down of such investments operations, which generated some revenues. Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AJG , and we had a market capitalization at December 31, 2023 of approximately $48.7 billion. Information in this report is as of December 31, 2023 unless otherwise noted. We were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at 2850 Golf Road, Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008-4050, and our telephone number is (630) 773 3800. Operating Segments We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent revenues from our brokerage operation, and fees, including performance based fees, from our risk management operations. The corporate segment generated revenues from our clean energy investments through 2022. Our business, particularly our brokerage business, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Commissions, fees, supplemental revenues and contingent revenues, and our costs to obtain and fulfill the service obligations to our clients, can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of contract-effective dates. On the other hand, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of acquisitions, recognition of books of business gains and losses and, prior to 2022, the variability in the recognition of tax credits generated by our clean energy investments also impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. 5 Brokerage Segment The brokerage segment accounted for 86% of our revenues in 2023. Our brokerage segment operates through a network of more than 590 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and more than 300 sales and service offices in approximately 60 countries, most of which are in the Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and service personnel. We offer client service capabilities in more than 130 countries around the world through our direct operations as well as through a network of correspondent brokers and consultants. Domestic Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted for 73% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2023. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all lines of commercial property/casualty and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage and consultant capabilities are as follows: Aviation Disability General Liability Products Liability Casualty Earthquake Health Welfare Professional Liability Claims Advocacy Errors Omissions Healthcare Analytics Property Commercial Auto Exchange Solutions Human Resources Retirement Compensation Executive Benefits Institutional Investment Surety Bond Cyber Liability Fiduciary Services Loss Control Voluntary Benefits Dental Fine Arts Marine Wind Directors Officers Liability Fire Medical Workers Compensation Our retail brokerage operations are organized and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 78% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve are as follows: Affinity Equity Advisors Life Sciences Real Estate/Hospitality Automotive Financial Institutions Manufacturing Religious Aviation Food/Agribusiness Marine Restaurant Construction Global Risks Nonprofit Retail and Services Energy Healthcare Personal Technology Communications Entertainment Higher/K12 Education Private Client Trade Credit/Political Risk Environmental Law Firms Public Sector Transportation Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and facilitates the development of value-added products and services specific to those industries. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive advantage. We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come from: Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts; Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing clients; Mergers and acquisitions; and Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives, rent-a-captives and deductible plans/self insurance. International and Other Brokerage Related Operations We operate as a retail commercial property and casualty broker throughout 39 locations in Australia, 44 locations in Canada and 33 locations in New Zealand. In the U.K., we operate as a retail broker from approximately 88 locations. We also have specialty, wholesale, underwriting and reinsurance intermediary operations in London for clients to access Lloyd s of London and other international underwriting enterprises, and a program operation offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities. See the discussion below regarding our Global Reinsurance Brokerage Operations. In Bermuda, we act principally as a wholesale broker for clients looking to access Bermuda-based underwriting enterprises and we also provide management and administrative services for captive insurance entities. 6 We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of independent brokers in countries where we do not have a local office presence. Between our direct operations and this global network of correspondent insurance brokers and consultants, we are able to serve our clients coverage and service needs in approximately 130 countries around the world. Global Reinsurance Brokerage Operations Our reinsurance brokerage operations (which we refer to as Gallagher Re) accounted for 12% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2023. Gallagher Re operates from more than 70 offices across 31 countries, with specialist expertise, underpinned by a portfolio of analytics capabilities including catastrophe modeling, dynamic financial analysis, rating agency analysis and capital modeling. Our reinsurance brokers assist underwriting enterprises, such as insurance companies and managing general underwriters, to secure protection or reinsurance from another insurance company for a specific risk or class of risks, including negotiating rates and terms and while sourcing the best-suited contracts available on the market. Additionally, through Gallagher Securities, Gallagher Re provides capital markets services, including acting as underwriter, with respect to insurance linked securities, weather derivatives, capital raising and selected merger and acquisition advisory activities. We anticipate growing Gallagher Re by increasing the number of underwriting enterprise clients, deepening our relationships with current underwriting enterprise clients, developing new products, further building out our facultative capabilities, and through mergers and acquisitions. Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations accounted for 15% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2023. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers and other non-affiliated brokers in the placement of specialized and hard-to-place insurance. These brokers operate through approximately 147 offices primarily located across the U.S., Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd s of London brokerage operation. More than 84% of our wholesale brokerage revenues comes from non-affiliated brokerage clients. In certain cases we act as a brokerage wholesaler, and in other cases we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter, distributing specialized insurance coverages for underwriting enterprises. Managing general agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an underwriting enterprise to manage all or a part of its business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the underwriting enterprise may include marketing, underwriting (although we do not assume any underwriting risk), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance. We believe our growth prospects for our wholesale brokerage operations depend on increasing the number of broker-clients, developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions. Captive Underwriting Enterprises We have ownership interests in several underwriting enterprises based in the U.S., Bermuda, Gibraltar, Guernsey and Isle of Man that primarily operate segregated account rent-a-captive facilities. These rent-a-captive facilities enable our clients to receive the benefits of participating in a captive underwriting enterprise without incurring certain disadvantages of ownership. In Malta and Ireland, we act as managers of underwriting enterprises. We also have a wholly owned underwriting enterprise subsidiary based in the U.S. that cedes all of its insurance risk of loss to reinsurers or captives under facultative and quota-share treaty reinsurance agreements. See Note 18 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to the insurance activity of our wholly owned underwriting enterprise subsidiary for 2023, 2022 and 2021. Risk Management Segment Our risk management segment accounted for 14% of our revenues in 2023. Approximately 62% of our risk management segment s revenues are from workers compensation-related claims, 31% are from general and commercial auto liability-related claims and 7% are from property-related claims in 2023. Risk management services are primarily marketed on an independent basis from our brokerage operations, to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies, nonprofit organizations, public sector entities, and underwriting enterprises, such as insurance carriers and captives. We manage our third party claims adjusting operations through a network of more than 40 offices located throughout Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the U.K. and the U.S. Most of these offices are fully staffed with claims adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on behalf and under the instruction of our clients. 7 While this segment complements our brokerage offerings, approximately 93% of our risk management segment s revenues come from clients not affiliated with our brokerage operations, such as underwriting enterprises and clients of other insurance brokers. We expect that the risk management segment s most significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from: Program business and the outsourcing of portions of underwriting enterprise claims departments; Increased levels of business with Fortune 1000 companies; Larger middle-market companies and captives; and Mergers and acquisitions. Corporate Segment We wound down our clean investment energy investments operations in 2022 and the corporate segment did not generate revenues in 2023. The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our debt, clean energy investments, external acquisition-related expenses, other corporate costs and the impact of foreign currency remeasurement. As a result, the timing of acquisitions and prior to 2022, the variability in the recognition of tax credits generated by our clean energy investments, impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. We have investments in limited liability companies that own or owned 35 commercial clean coal production facilities that are qualified to produce refined coal using Chem-Mod LLC s proprietary technologies. These operations produced refined coal that we believe qualifies for tax credits under IRC Section 45. The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits expired as of December 31, 2019 for 14 of our plants and expired on December 31, 2021 for the other 21 plants. Chem-Mod LLC (described below) is a privately held enterprise that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies to reduce mercury, sulfur dioxide and other emissions at coal-fired power plants. We own 46.5% of Chem-Mod LLC and are its controlling managing member. We also have a 12.0% noncontrolling interest in two dormant, privately-held, enterprises, C-Quest Technology LLC and C-Quest Technologies International LLC (which we refer to together as, C-Quest), which own technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels. At this time, it is unclear if C Quest will ever become commercially viable. Competition Brokerage Segment The insurance and reinsurance brokerage and consulting businesses are highly competitive and there are many organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete with us in every area of our business. Additionally, we also face competition from insurance and reinsurance carriers that market, distribute and service a portion of their products directly, and in some cases from banks, consulting and accounting firms, and technology companies that can provide alternative risk management products or services. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive advantage are the quality of the services we render, the personalized attention we provide, the individual and corporate expertise providing the actual service to the client, the data analytics and technology capabilities we have built and the overall cost efficiencies we create for our clients. We provide sophisticated data analysis and other data and benchmarking insights through a product offering we refer to as Gallagher Drive to help our clients make insurance decisions. Through our SmartMarket platform, we also provide insurance carriers with individualized preference setting and risk identification capabilities, as well as performance data and metrics. We believe these capabilities provide a growing competitive advantage with respect to many of the smaller organizations with which we compete. Risk Management Segment Our risk management business competes with a number of companies varying in size and scope, including global independent third party claims administrators, regional third party claims administrators, insurance owned claims administrators and legal firms in certain jurisdictions. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position are our ability to deliver better outcomes, reputation for outstanding service, cost-efficient service and financial strength. 8 Business Combinations We completed over 700 acquisitions from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2023. The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local brokerages, agencies, or employee benefit consulting operations with a middle or small client focus and/or significant expertise in one of our niche/practice groups. The total purchase price for individual acquisitions has typically ranged from $1.0 million to $100.0 million. During 2023, we also completed several acquisitions that were larger than our usual tuck-in acquisitions, namely the acquisitions of Buck, Cadence Insurance and Eastern Insurance, within our brokerage segment, and the acquisition of My Plan Manager, within our risk management segment. Through these acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service capabilities, or further diversify our business mix. We also focus on identifying: A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented and ethics-based culture; A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources; and Clearly defined financial criteria. See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2023 acquisitions, the amount and form of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisitions. Clients Our client base is highly diversified and includes commercial, industrial, public sector, religious and nonprofit entities, as well as underwriting enterprises in our reinsurance operations and risk management segment. In 2023, our largest single client represented approximately 1% and our ten largest clients together represented approximately 3% of our combined brokerage and risk management segment revenues. Human Capital As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 52,000 employees, with approximately 45% in the U.S. and 55% outside of the U.S. Approximately 62% of our employees work in our brokerage segment and 15% in our risk management segment. Our remaining employees work in our corporate segment, primarily at our headquarters and at Gallagher Centers of Excellence in India. In 2023, our total compensation expense was $4,769.1 million for the brokerage segment and $776.8 million for the risk management segment, representing 55% and 60%, respectively, of brokerage and risk management segment revenues. Additional information regarding compensation expense, both on a reported and an adjusted basis can be found elsewhere in this report under Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Hiring and Retention While many of our new employees come to us through mergers and acquisitions and traditional hiring, growing our own has long been a key part of our human capital strategy. Our summer internship program began more than fifty years ago with a single intern. Since then, our program has grown globally and, during the summer of 2023, we employed approximately 500 interns. We provide our interns with professional development and on-the job sales training that gives them the opportunity to cultivate expertise and accelerate their full-time sales career growth. We invest in our employees and aim to offer competitive compensation and benefits packages. We acknowledge the changing work landscape and promote hybrid work arrangements, aiming to provide our employees with flexibility and work-life balance. Further, we conduct periodic global engagement surveys that have had increasingly strong participation and positive results. Employee Learning and Development We have programs around the world that offer learning and development opportunities to our employees. For example, the Achieve Gallagher Career Associate Programs are North American career development programs, that combine formal training, with experiential learning to provide participants the knowledge needed to be successful as client service and sales professionals, respectively. Similarly, we offer development programs outside the U.S., including Australia, India, and the U.K. We provide on demand access to over 35,000 globally accessible business skills learning assets across 18 languages. 9 Inclusion and Diversity We aim to foster an environment that values and leverages the diverse talents, perspectives and ideas of all employees so they can reach their fullest potential. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 58% of our employees were women, including 47% of managers and 41% of producers. In the U.S., approximately 27% of our employees were racially/ethnically diverse, including 17% of managers and 21% of producers. Regulation Many of our activities throughout the world are subject to supervision and regulations promulgated by regulatory or self-regulatory bodies such as the SEC, the NYSE, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the IRS, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network in the U.S., the Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K., the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia and insurance regulators in nearly every jurisdiction in which we operate. Our retirement-related consulting and investment services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries. Our activities are also subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations addressing, among others, licensing, data privacy, wage-and-hour standards, employment and labor relations, anti-trust, anti-corruption, currency exchange, cash reserves and local investment. As we continue to implement new technology and AI initiatives across our business we also expect to be subject to additional regulations related to the use of such new technologies. The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations, including increased staffing needs, the development of new policies, procedures and internal controls and providing training to employees in multiple locations, adding to our cost of doing business. Many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing further the complexity and cost of compliance. In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us with adequate assurance that we are aware of all necessary licenses to operate our business, that we are operating our business in a compliant manner, or that our rights are otherwise protected. In addition, major political and legal developments in jurisdictions in which we do business may lead to new regulatory costs and challenges. For example, China adopted a blocking statute similar to that of the European Union (EU) requiring compliance with certain Chinese laws if they conflict with U.S. laws. Rising global tensions and protectionism may also lead other countries to adopt similar measures, which could make it more difficult and costly for us to expand our operations globally. In addition, as regulators and investors continue to focus on climate change and other sustainability issues, we are subject to new and increasingly complex disclosure frameworks and regulations. For example, the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) became effective in 2022 and we expect that some of our EU subsidiaries will be required to start reporting under the CSRD in 2025. The SEC has also proposed new climate change disclosure requirements, and compliance with such rules, when enacted, will require significant effort which may not be complementary with our CSRD compliance efforts given both regulations differ substantially. Further, in 2023 the State of California enacted sweeping climate change disclosure requirements, which may also conflict with the CSRD and the SEC requirements. We are also subject to several sustainability-related reporting requirements in Canada and the U.K. and expect that similar requirements will be enacted in Australia and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our compliance with these frameworks and regulations have required, and will continue to require, significant resources. Regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department pursuant to FATCA require us to take various measures relating to non U.S. funds, transactions and accounts. Available Information Our executive offices are located at 2850 Golf Road, Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008-4050, and our telephone number is (630) 773 3800. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website at http://investor.ajg.com/sec-filings as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and other information. Unless expressly noted, the information on our website, including our investor relations website, or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing we make with the S EC. 10 Item 1A . Ris k Factors. Risk Factor Summary Global economic and geopolitical events, such as inflation, monetary policy responses and changing interest rates; a recession or economic downturn, political violence, and instability, including geo-economic fragmentation, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Economic conditions that result in financial difficulties for underwriting enterprises or lead to reduced risk-taking capital capacity could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have historically acquired large numbers of insurance brokers, benefit consulting firms and, to a lesser extent, third party claims administration and risk management firms. We may not be able to continue such an acquisition strategy in the future and there are risks associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. We face additional risks relating to acquisitions that are larger than our usual tuck-in acquisitions, including that these acquisitions will not perform as expected and that we cannot successfully integrate complex operations. Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our sustainability and ESG-related aspirations, goals and initiatives, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, expose us to numerous risks. If w