Item 1. Business 5-9 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10-27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 27 Information About Our Executive Officers 28 Part II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29-30 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30-61 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 61-63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64-116 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 121 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 121 Item 9B Other Information 121 Item 9C. Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 121 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 122 Item 11. Executive Compensation 122 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 122 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 122 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 122 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 122-125 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 125 Signatures 126 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 127 4 Part I Item 1. Business. Overview Arthur J. Gallagher Co. and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to herein as we, our, us or Gallagher, are engaged in providing insurance brokerage, consulting, and third-party property/casualty claims settlement and administration services to businesses and organizations around the world. We believe that our major strength is our ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance, insurance and risk management solutions, superior claim outcomes and comprehensive consulting services to our clients. Our brokerage segment operations provide brokerage and consulting services to businesses and organizations of all types, including commercial, not-for-profit, public entities, insurance companies and insurance capital providers, and, to a lesser extent, individuals, in the areas of insurance placement, risk of loss management, and management of employer sponsored benefit programs. Our risk management segment operations provide contract claim settlement, claim administration, loss control services and risk management consulting for commercial, not-for-profit, captive and public entities, and various other organizations that choose to self-insure property/casualty coverages or choose to use a third-party claims management organization rather than the claim services provided by an underwriting enterprise . We do not assume underwriting risk on a net basis, other than with respect to de minimis amounts necessary to provide minimum or regulatory capital to organize captives, pools, specialized underwriters or risk-retention groups. Rather, capital necessary for covering events of loss is provided by underwriting enterprises, which we define as insurance companies, reinsurance companies and various other risk-taking entities, including intermediaries of underwriting enterprises, that we do not own or control. Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from a one-person insurance agency to the world s fourth largest insurance broker/risk manager based on revenues, according to Business Insurance magazine s July/August 2021 edition, to the world s third largest insurance broker/risk manager based on market capitalization as of December 31, 2021, and one of the world s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators, according to Business Insurance magazine s May 2021 edition. We have three reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate, which contributed approximately 73%, 13% and 14%, respectively, to 2021 revenues. We generate approximately 67% of our revenues from the combined brokerage and risk management segments in the United States (U.S.), with the remaining 33% generated internationally, primarily in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Bermuda. All of the revenues of the corporate segment are generated in the U.S. Shares of our common stock are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AJG , and we had a market capitalization at December 31, 2021 of approximately $35.4 billion. Information in this report is as of December 31, 2021 unless otherwise noted. We were reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1972. Our executive offices are located at 2850 Golf Road, Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008-4050, and our telephone number is (630) 773 3800. Operating Segments We report our results in three segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate. The major sources of our operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent revenues from our brokerage operations, and fees, including performance based fees, from our risk management operations. The corporate segment generates revenues from our clean energy investments. Our ability to generate additional tax credits from our Section 45 clean energy investments ended in December 2021. Our business, particularly our brokerage business, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Commissions, fees, supplemental revenues and contingent revenues, and our costs to obtain and fulfill the service obligations to our clients, can vary from quarter to quarter as a result of the timing of contract-effective dates. On the other hand, salaries and employee benefits, rent, depreciation and amortization expenses generally tend to be more uniform throughout the year. The timing of acquisitions, recognition of books of business gains and losses and the variability in the recognition of tax credits generated by our clean energy investments also impact the trends in our quarterly operating results. Brokerage Segment The brokerage segment accounted for 73% of our revenues in 2021. Our brokerage segment operates through a network of more than 475 sales and service offices located throughout the U.S. and more than 300 sales and service offices in 67 countries, most of which are in the U.K., Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Bermuda. Most of these offices are fully staffed with sales and service personnel. We also offer client service capabilities in more than 150 countries around the world through a network of correspondent brokers and consultants. 5 On December 1, 2021, we acquired substantially all of the Willis Towers Watson s plc treaty reinsurance brokerage operations for an initial gross consideration of $3.25 billion, and potential additional consideration of $750 million subject to certain third-year revenue targets. There are twelve remaining international operations with deferred closings that comprise approximately $180 million of the initial purchase consideration that are subject to local regulatory approval and are expected to close in first and second quarters of 2022. Together with our existing reinsurance operations, the combined businesses will trade as Gallagher Re from more than 70 offices across 31 countries and incorporate approximately 2, 2 00 employees. This acquisition brings specialist expertise, underpinned by a portfolio of analytics capabilities including catastrophe modeling, dynamic financial analysis, rating agency analysis and capital modeling that will immediately provide value to insurance carriers and insurance capital providers around the world. Domestic Retail Insurance Brokerage Operations Our retail insurance brokerage operations accounted for 82% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2021. Our retail brokerage operations place nearly all lines of commercial property/casualty and health and welfare insurance coverage. Significant lines of insurance coverage and consultant capabilities are as follows: Aviation Disability General Liability Products Liability Casualty Earthquake Health Welfare Professional Liability Claims Advocacy Errors Omissions Healthcare Analytics Property Commercial Auto Exchange Solutions Human Resources Retirement Compensation Executive Benefits Institutional Investment Surety Bond Cyber Liability Fiduciary Services Loss Control Voluntary Benefits Dental Fine Arts Marine Wind Directors Officers Liability Fire Medical Workers Compensation Our retail brokerage operations are organized and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 79% of our retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve are as follows: Affinity Equity Advisors Law Firms Real Estate/Hospitality Automotive Financial Institutions Life Sciences Religious Aviation Food/Agribusiness Marine Restaurant Construction Global Risks Not-for-Profit Technology Energy Healthcare Personal Trade Credit/Political Risk Entertainment Higher Education Private Client Transportation Environmental K12 Education Public Entity Our specialized focus on these niche/practice groups allows for highly-focused marketing efforts and facilitates the development of value-added products and services specific to those industries. We believe that our detailed understanding and broad client contacts within these niche/practice groups provide us with a competitive advantage. We anticipate that our retail brokerage operations greatest revenue growth over the next several years will continue to come from: Mergers and acquisitions Our niche/practice groups and middle-market accounts Cross-selling other brokerage products to existing clients and Developing and managing alternative market mechanisms such as captives, rent-a-captives and deductible plans/self insurance. Wholesale Insurance Brokerage Operations Our wholesale insurance brokerage operations accounted for 18% of our brokerage segment revenues in 2021. Our wholesale brokers assist our retail brokers and other non-affiliated brokers in the placement of specialized and hard-to-place insurance. These brokers operate through approximately 300 offices primarily located across the U.S., Bermuda and through our approved Lloyd s of London brokerage operation. In certain cases we act as a brokerage wholesaler, and in other cases we act as a managing general agent or managing general underwriter distributing specialized insurance coverages for underwriting enterprises. Managing general agents and managing general underwriters are agents authorized by an underwriting enterprise to manage all or a part of its business in a specific geographic territory. Activities they perform on behalf of the underwriting enterprise may include marketing, underwriting (although we do not assume any underwriting risk), issuing policies, collecting premiums, appointing and supervising other agents, paying claims and negotiating reinsurance. 6 More than 79 % of our wholesale brokerage reve 3 nues comes from non-affiliated brokerage c lient s. Based on revenues, our domestic wholesale brokerage operation ranked as the largest managing general agent s /underwriting manager s/Lloyds coverholders according to Business Insurance magazine s September 2021 edition . We anticipate growing our wholesale brokerage operations by increasing the number of broker-clients, developing new managing general agency and underwriter programs, and through mergers and acquisitions. Risk Management Segment Our risk management segment accounted for 13% of our revenues in 2021. Approximately 63% of our risk management segment s revenues are from workers compensation-related claims, 30% are from general and commercial auto liability-related claims and 7% are from property-related claims in 2021. Risk management services are primarily marketed directly to Fortune 1000 companies, larger middle-market companies, not for profit organizations and public entities on an independent basis from our brokerage operations. We manage our third party claims adjusting operations through a network of more than 57 offices located throughout the U.S., Australia, the U.K., New Zealand and Canada. Most of these offices are fully staffed with claims adjusters and other service personnel. Our adjusters and service personnel act solely on behalf and under the instruction of our clients. While this segment complements our brokerage and consulting offerings, approximately 90% of our risk management segment s revenues come from clients not affiliated with our brokerage operations, such as underwriting enterprises and clients of other insurance brokers. Based on revenues, our risk management operation ranked as one of the world s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators according to Business Insurance magazine s May 2021 edition. We expect that the risk management segment s most significant growth prospects through the next several years will come from: Program business and the outsourcing of portions of underwriting enterprise claims departments Increased levels of business with Fortune 1000 companies Larger middle-market companies and captives and Mergers and acquisitions. Corporate Segment The corporate segment accounted for 14% of our revenues in 2021. The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our debt, clean energy investments, external acquisition-related expenses, other corporate costs and the impact of foreign currency translation . The revenues reported by this segment result almost solely from our consolidated clean energy investments. We own 35 commercial clean coal production facilities that are qualified to produce refined coal using Chem-Mod LLC s proprietary technologies. These operations produced refined coal that we believe qualifies for tax credits under Internal Revenue Code Section 45 (which we refer to as IRC Section 45). The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits expired as of December 31, 2019 for 14 of our plants and expired on December 31, 2021 for the other 21 plants. Chem-Mod LLC (described below) is a privately held enterprise that has commercialized multi-pollutant reduction technologies to reduce mercury, sulfur dioxide and other emissions at coal-fired power plants. We own 46.5% of Chem-Mod LLC and are its controlling managing member. We also have a 12.0% noncontrolling interest in dormant, privately-held, enterprises, C-Quest Technology LLC and C-Quest Technologies International LLC (which we refer to together as, C-Quest), which own technologies that reduce carbon dioxide emissions created by burning fossil fuels. At this time, it is unclear if C Quest will ever become commercially viable. International and Other Brokerage Related Operations We operate as a retail commercial property and casualty broker throughout 51 locations in Australia, 52 locations in Canada and 36 locations in New Zealand. In the U.K., we operate as a retail broker from approximately 110 locations. We also have specialty, wholesale, underwriting and reinsurance intermediary operations in London for clients to access Lloyd s of London and other international underwriting enterprises, and a program operation offering customized risk management products and services to U.K. public entities. See the previous discussion regarding our acquisition of the Willis Towers Watson s plc treaty reinsurance brokerage operations as it relates to the impact on our international operations. In Bermuda, we act principally as a wholesale broker for clients looking to access Bermuda-based underwriting enterprises and we also provide management and administrative services for captive insurance entities. 7 We also have strategic brokerage alliances with a variety of independent brokers in countries where we do not have a local office presence. Through this global network of correspondent insurance brokers and consultants, we are able to serve our clients coverage and service needs in more than 150 countries around the world. Captive Underwriting Enterprises - We have ownership interests in several underwriting enterprises based in the U.S., Bermuda, Gibraltar, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Malta, that primarily operate segregated account rent-a-captive facilities. These rent-a-captive facilities enable our clients to receive the benefits of participating in a captive underwriting enterprise without incurring certain disadvantages of ownership. We also have a wholly owned underwriting enterprise subsidiary based in the U.S. that cedes all of its insurance risk of loss to reinsurers or captives under facultative and quota-share treaty reinsurance agreements. See Note 18 to our 2021 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information related to the insurance activity of our wholly owned underwriting enterprise subsidiary for 2021, 2020 and 2019. Competition Brokerage Segment The insurance brokerage and consulting business is highly competitive and there are many organizations and individuals throughout the world who actively compete with us in every area of our business. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render, the personalized attention we provide, the individual and corporate expertise providing the actual service to the client, and the overall cost to our clients. We provide sophisticated data analysis to help our clients make insurance decisions. Through our electronic platform, SmartMarket, we also provide insurance carriers with individualized preference setting and risk identification capabilities, as well as performance data and metrics. We believe these capabilities provide a growing competitive advantage with respect to many of the smaller organizations with which we compete. Risk Management Segment Our risk management operation currently ranks as one of the world s largest property/casualty third party claims administrators based on revenues, according to Business Insurance magazine s May 2021 edition. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position are our ability to deliver better outcomes, reputation for outstanding service, cost-efficient service and financial strength. Business Combinations We completed and integrated 621 acquisitions from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2021, most of which were within our brokerage segment. The majority of these acquisitions have been smaller regional or local brokerages, agencies, or employee benefit consulting operations with a middle or small client focus and/or significant expertise in one of our niche/practice groups. The total purchase price for individual acquisitions has typically ranged from $1.0 million to $100.0 million. Through acquisitions, we seek to expand our talent pool, enhance our geographic presence and service capabilities, and/or broaden and further diversify our business mix. We also focus on identifying: A corporate culture that matches our sales-oriented and ethics-based culture A profitable, growing business whose ability to compete would be enhanced by gaining access to our greater resources and Clearly defined financial criteria. See Note 3 to our 2021 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our 2021 acquisitions, the amount and form of the consideration paid and the dates of acquisitions. Clients Our client base is highly diversified and includes commercial, industrial, public entity, religious and not-for-profit entities. In 2021, our largest single client represented approximately 1% and our ten largest clients together represented approximately 3% of our combined brokerage and risk management segment revenues. 8 Human Capital In 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to have a significant impact on our human capital management. Many of our employees continue to work remotely for some or all of their work week and we continue to make investments in support of a hybrid work environment. We have instituted safety protocols and procedures for employees when they are in an office. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 39,000 employees, with approximately 47% in the U.S. and 53% outside of the U.S. Approximately 76% of our employees work in our brokerage segment and 19% in our risk management segment. Our remaining employees work in our corporate segment, primarily in our home office and financial services division, as well as in our service centers in India and elsewhere around the world. In 2021, our total compensation expense was $3,252.4 million for the brokerage segment and $580.7 million for the risk management segment, representing 55% and 60%, respectively, of brokerage and risk management segment revenues. Additional information regarding compensation expense, both on a reported and an adjusted basis can be found elsewhere in this report under Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. While many of our new employees come to us through mergers and acquisitions and traditional hiring, growing our own has long been a key part of our human capital strategy. Our summer internship program began more than fifty years ago with a single intern. Since then, our program has grown globally and we employ more than 400 interns each summer, pre-pandemic (we had fewer interns in 2020 and 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic). We provide our interns with professional development and on-the job sales training that gives them the opportunity to cultivate expertise and accelerate their full-time sales career growth. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 58% of our employees were women, including 47% of managers and 40% of producers. In the U.S., approximately 25% of our employees were racially/ethnically diverse, including 15% of managers and 18% of producers. Regulation Many of our activities throughout the world are subject to supervision and regulations promulgated by regulatory or self-regulatory bodies such as the SEC, the NYSE, the Department of Justice (DOJ), the IRS, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Federal Trade Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) in the U.S., the Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K., the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia and insurance regulators in nearly every jurisdiction in which we operate. Our retirement-related consulting and investment services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries. Our activities are also subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations addressing licensing, data privacy, wage-and-hour standards, employment and labor relations, anti-competition, anti-corruption, currency, reserves and the amount of local investment with respect to our operations in certain countries. The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations, including increased staffing needs, the development of new policies, procedures and internal controls and providing training to employees in multiple locations, adding to our cost of doing business. Many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing further the complexity and cost of compliance. In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us with adequate assurance that we are aware of all necessary licenses to operate our business, that we are operating our business in a compliant manner, or that our rights are otherwise protected. In addition, major political and legal developments in jurisdictions in which we do business may lead to new regulatory costs and challenges. Related to our acquisition of the Willis Towers Watson s plc treaty reinsurance brokerage operations there are twelve remaining international deferred closings that comprise approximately $180 million of the initial purchase consideration that are subject to local regulatory approval and various licensing requirements that are expected to close in first and second quarters of 2022. Regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury Department pursuant to FATCA require us to take various measures relating to non-U.S. funds, transactions and accounts. Available Information Our executive offices are located at 2850 Golf Road, Rolling Meadows, Illinois 60008-4050, and our telephone number is (630) 773 3800. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website at http://investor.ajg.com/sec-filings as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements and other information. Unless expressly noted, the information on our website, including our investor relations website, or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing we make with the SEC. 9