Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [ Reserved] 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B. Other Information 92 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 92 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 SIGNATURES 97 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding future events and the future results of Akamai Technologies, Inc., which we refer to as we, us, or the Company. All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management as of the date hereof based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, "could," expects, anticipates, intends, plans, "projects," estimates, should, forecasts, if, continues, goal, likely, "may," variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. Factors that may cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K under the section entitled Risk Factors and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, including the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other events that may be announced after the date hereof. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Akamai provides solutions to power and protect digital experiences. For more than 20 years, Akamai has managed the Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform to create a worldwide network of servers located at the edge of the internet. Our approach has provided us with unique visibility and insight into traffic volumes, congestion, attack patterns, vulnerabilities and other activities across the internet's complex cloud of networks and systems. Leveraging these insights and our position at the edge, we offer solutions designed to protect our customers from threats and attacks, while empowering them to securely deliver their business as they engage, entertain and interact with their customers; and extend their internal systems beyond their corporate perimeters to control access and better leverage the cloud. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which shifted how millions of people work and communicate globally, has reinforced our belief that the internet s role in transforming the way we exchange ideas and information and conduct business is more vital than ever. Our strategy is to help continue to drive this transformation by using our technology and intelligence to offer solutions that empower our customers to compete and operate with the scale, resilience and efficiency that their businesses demand. As we continue to pursue our strategy in the future and to expand the ways we can help our customers, we regularly evaluate our portfolio of solutions and potential strategic acquisitions. We plan to continue to pursue potential strategic acquisitions that complement our existing business, represent a strong strategic fit and are consistent with our overall growth strategy. We may also target future acquisitions to expand or add functionality and capabilities to our existing portfolio of solutions. Our Solutions Our business is organized into two groups, both of which utilize the Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform and our global sales organization: the Security Technology Group and the Edge Technology Group. The Security Technology Group includes solutions that are designed to keep infrastructure, websites, applications and users safe, while the Edge Technology Group includes solutions that enable business online, including media delivery, web performance and edge computing solutions. 3 Table of Contents Security Our cloud security solutions are designed to keep infrastructure, websites, applications, application programming interfaces, or APIs, and users safe from a multitude of cyberattacks and online threats while improving performance. Our solutions blend robust automation with customizable protections and managed security services to enable businesses to effectively manage risk and maximize the protections of their infrastructure, networks, applications, and APIs. Akamai s cloud security solutions include web application and API protection, bot management and mitigation to protect against credential abuse and account takeover, customer identity and access management, distributed denial of service (DDoS) mitigation, protection from in-browser threats to protect against supply chain compromise and audience hijacking. We also offer a growing set of solutions designed to help businesses implement a zero trust approach to security. Based on the concept of least privilege, which dictates that users, applications and services utilize the bare minimum amount of access needed to perform their function, these tools are intended to shift protections from a legacy approach based on establishing a corporate perimeter, to a more modern, risk-based approach. Solutions in this category include Zero Trust Network Access, or ZTNA, and multi-factor authentication, or MFA, which replace legacy virtual private networks, or VPNs, micro-segmentation which replaces legacy network firewalls and helps protect businesses from the threat of ransomware and Secure Web Gateway, or SWG, that helps protect against the threat of malware and phishing attacks. Content Delivery Solutions Our web and mobile performance solutions are architected to enable dynamic websites and applications to have rapid response times, no matter where the user is, what device or browser they are using or how they are connected to the internet. These services leverage intelligent performance optimization and real-time monitoring, origin offload and network reliability, and insights that enable enterprises to identify and address performance issues. Akamai web and mobile performance capabilities also include global traffic management, site acceleration, application load balancing, automated image and video optimization, large-scale load testing and real-user monitoring. Our media delivery solutions are designed to enable enterprises to execute their digital media distribution strategies by addressing volume and global reach requirements, improving the end-user experience, boosting reliability and reducing the cost of internet-related infrastructure. Underlying these solutions is technology to address variable connection speeds and device types, facilitate access to disparate locations around the world, accelerate large file downloads, reliably deliver high-quality live content across various devices and platforms, enable comprehensive insights and real-time online video monitoring, and offer globally-distributed cloud storage designed for resiliency, high-availability and real-time performance optimization. Akamai media delivery solutions include video streaming and video player services, game and software delivery, broadcast operations, authoritative domain name system, or DNS, resolution, and data and analytics. Edge Compute Our edge compute capabilities are designed to enable developers to deploy and distribute code at the edge. This approach brings data and decision-making closer to the users and systems that act upon them so teams can rapidly iterate on existing capabilities to meet changing customer needs and build low latency solutions that provide fast, responsive and personalized experiences. With access to the Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform, enterprises and developers gain rapid deployment and global scale without managing any additional internal infrastructure. Carrier Our carrier offerings are designed to help customers operate a cost-efficient network that capitalizes on traffic growth and new subscriber services for security, traffic management and content delivery. Our solutions help carriers sell easy-to-deploy cybersecurity protection offerings to their subscriber base; offerings include protection from phishing, viruses, malware and ransomware. Additionally, our carrier security solutions include parental controls to tailor internet access. We also offer DNS infrastructure and content delivery solutions for carriers through our intelligent recursive DNS offering and managed content delivery network, which has dedicated servers for the carriers own services with Akamai providing content provisioning, delivery and reporting. 4 Table of Contents Services and Support We provide an array of service and support offerings designed to assist customers with integrating, configuring, optimizing and managing our core offerings. Once customers are deployed on the Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform, they can rely on our professional services and security experts for customized solutions, problem resolution and 24/7 customer support. Additional features are available to enterprises that purchase our premium and managed security solutions including a dedicated technical account team, proactive service monitoring, custom technical support handling, security traffic monitoring, technical security reviews, threat advisories and emergency support for security events. Our Technology and Network The Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform provides the technological underpinnings for all of our solutions. It leverages more than 350,000 servers deployed in nearly 1,400 networks ranging from large, backbone network providers to medium and small internet service providers, or ISPs, to cable modem and satellite providers to universities and other networks. By deploying servers within a wide variety of networks across more than 130 countries, we are better able to manage and control routing and delivery quality to geographically diverse users. We also have thousands of peering relationships that provide us with direct paths to end-user networks, which reduce data loss, while also potentially giving us more options for delivery at reduced cost. We use data generated in connection with each of our solutions to improve and augment the functionality of our overlay network and, in turn, to improve the effectiveness of our other solutions. In this approach, insights and learnings are integrated across the broader platform in support of our entire solution portfolio to enable us to: identify, absorb and manage security threats; help our customers implement a zero trust security model; detect what devices individuals are using and optimize content delivery to them; efficiently route traffic away from internet trouble spots; understand different types of traffic visiting websites so that customers can respond to it; and provide our customer with business, technical and analytical insights into their online operations. Our platform leverages specialized technologies, such as advanced routing, load balancing, data collection and monitoring. Our intelligent routing software is designed to ensure that website visitors experience fast page loading, access to applications and content assembly wherever they are on the internet and regardless of global or local traffic conditions. Dedicated professionals staff our network operations command center 24 hours a day, seven days a week to monitor and react to internet traffic patterns and trends. We frequently deploy enhancements to our software globally to strengthen and improve the effectiveness of our network. Our platform offers flexibility too. Customers can control the extent of their use of Akamai's technology to scale on demand, using as much or as little capacity of the global platform as they require, to support widely varying traffic and rapid growth without the need for expensive and complex internal infrastructure. Human Capital Our employees our human capital are our most valuable assets as they are fundamental to our innovation, the operation and ongoing enhancement of the Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform, the fostering and maintenance of relationships with our customers and the management of our operations. The importance of our workforce to our success is underscored by the inclusion of corporate mission critical goals centered on our employees in 2021 we focused on further developing a diverse, productive and flexible work environment supported by the tenets of inclusion, technology, collaboration, a growth mindset and our One Akamai culture. Different aspects of our human capital management are overseen by our board of directors as well as its Talent, Leadership Compensation and Environmental, Social Governance Committees. As of December 31, 2021, we had over 8,700 employees located in more than 30 countries (with approximately 60% of those employees located outside of the U.S.) and representing over 90 nationalities, which we believe helps bring a global perspective to our operations. Our employees are grouped across the following roles, with the approximate percentage of the overall population noted: engineering and research and development (32%), services and support (28%), sales and marketing (20%) and administrative functions (20%). 5 Table of Contents Engagement It is our belief that an engaged employee base is key to having the productive, ethical and inclusive workplace needed to successfully compete in today s marketplace. We regularly conduct surveys of our employees to assess engagement and job satisfaction. Results from these surveys have consistently shown a strong sense of engagement and confidence in Akamai's future; as Akamai, in 2021, outperformed the high performing benchmark comparative index used by our third-party survey provider, an internationally-recognized consulting firm specializing in corporate culture. We have been acknowledged in respected publications across the U.S., India and Poland as a great place to work. Continuing into 2021, all employees were invited to participate in a company-wide program, developed by a behavioral research organization, that was intended to help us increase inclusivity, become more open to change and accelerate our innovation. In addition, we also work closely with the Akamai Foundation to provide community service and charitable matching fund opportunities for Akamai employees, endeavors that have been shown to increase employee engagement. Our leadership believes that one of the keys to fostering employee inclusion and engagement is through communication. This approach was amplified because of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, our Chief Executive Officer has conducted over 80 employee town halls and all hands meetings (most of which were virtual) in 2020 and 2021, and our Chief Human Resources Officer has provided regular updates on pandemic-related developments and available resources to assist employees. Diversity Akamai is an equal opportunity employer that values the strength that diversity brings to the workplace. We do not tolerate discrimination on the basis of gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, race or ethnicity, protected veteran status, disability or other protected group status. Akamai supports varied programs and practices designed to promote a diverse and inclusive working environment. We have eleven employee resource groups, or ERGs, that offer opportunities for employees to come together for mutual support, education and development. ERGs encompass different racial and ethnic groups, persons with different physical or cognitive abilities, parents, military veterans, those supporting the LGBTQ community and women. We track the diversity of our workforce and report quarterly to the board of directors on our progress to improve our diverse representation. At December 31, 2021, global female representation was 27.3%, up from 26.2% at the end of 2020, and racial and ethnic minority representation in the U.S. was 41.4%, up from 40.6% at the end of 2020. To help us improve the diversity of our workforce, we participate in or sponsor professional development and recruiting forums. We also offer the Akamai Technical Academy, a global technical training program for diverse individuals (gender, ethnicity, experiential, generational, veterans) who are interested in pursuing a technical career path, but may not be formally educated in science, mathematics or engineering. The program consists of Akamai-specific training, after which participants are placed in a variety of contract roles across our organization with the potential to become full-time employees. We also train hiring managers to draft inclusive job descriptions intended to broaden the pool of eligible applicants. Retention We have a demonstrated history of investing in our workforce by offering competitive salaries, wages and benefits. Our compensation and benefits philosophy is to maximize the effectiveness of pay and benefits programs to attract and retain the high caliber individuals needed to drive the success of our business, while balancing cost-effectiveness and competitive factors. Our benefits programs (which vary by country and region) include healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules and locations, adoption and fertility assistance, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and holistic wellness programs. Our wellness programs include educational offerings on healthy lifestyles, access to mental health experts and access to ergonomic advice and equipment. To foster a stronger sense of ownership and align the interests of employees with shareholders, restricted stock units are provided to eligible employees under our broad-based stock incentive programs, and most employees are eligible to participate in our employee stock purchase plan. We monitor voluntary attrition in assessing our overall human capital. While attrition was higher in 2021 as compared to 2020, we believe our attrition rate is lower than the global average for technology companies. As a signatory to the White House Equal Pay Pledge, we are committed to monitoring our pay practices regularly and making adjustments, as necessary, to deliver on this pledge. We periodically conduct internal pay equity analyses (with the assistance of a nationally-recognized outside consultant), covering gender globally and race and gender in the U.S. We take action to remedy identified discrepancies as appropriate. To date, no widespread patterns of disparity have been identified. In addition, succession planning is an ongoing priority for our leadership. We conduct annual succession planning for senior leadership, which is overseen by our board of directors, including development plans for the next level of our senior 6 Table of Contents leaders. Annual talent reviews focus on both high performers as well as those with high potential to keep our pipeline of tomorrow s leaders full. Development We invest significant resources in professional development, career advancement and training for our global workforce. All employees participate in our Akamai Elevation performance review program. For select employees, we offer leadership training workshops, 360-degree feedback and succession planning exercises to encourage and enable internal promotion and advancement. All employees are required to complete annual ethics and compliance and data security training. In addition to these required trainings, nearly all of our employees and contractors completed at least one training in our Akamai University program during 2021. COVID-19 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we instituted protocols and policies focused on prioritizing the health and safety of our employees while maintaining business continuity and minimizing disruptions to customer support and service delivery. In mid-March 2020, we shifted to a remote working posture and closed all offices to staff other than employees in key functions, such as monitoring and managing our network. We have begun to selectively and safely reopen offices in a limited capacity for employees who would prefer to work from one of our offices. Safety protocols include, but are not limited to, mandatory training, personal protective equipment, reduced capacity, social distancing, an increased cleaning schedule and, in certain jurisdictions, vaccination requirements and/or testing protocols. We have a rigorous process for assessing whether any office can reopen (and remain open) based on local government regulations, local health trends and business needs. Except for employees whose job responsibilities require in-office work, none of our employees are required to fully return to the office, even those that are currently open. In 2021, we continued many of the programs we instituted in 2020 to support our employees and contractors, including our productivity reimbursement program to assist all employees with purchasing equipment to better enable remote work; our expanded wellness program offerings to offer courses on pandemic related topics; providing employees with licenses to a digital health platform; and developing manager guidance on enabling flexible work arrangements. We also provided seven paid wellness days in 2021 to allow additional paid time off for employees, specifically to encourage mental and physical health. In addition to support for full- and part-time employees, we guaranteed sick pay for contractors. FlexBase Given our ability to deliver results while working virtually, we have designated over 90% of roles as flexible and able to successfully work remotely. We believe flexible workforce positions will make us a more attractive employer, increase productivity, enable us to recruit from a more diverse pool of applicants and present additional growth and development opportunities for our employees. To support this workforce of the future, we plan to roll out our FlexBase program in May 2022, which will allow the more than 90% of our workforce designated as flexible to choose whether they want to work from an Akamai office or their home office. In order to roll out the FlexBase program, we are designing and developing a number of tools and resources to support this program. Customers Our customers include many of the world's leading corporations, such as Adobe, Airbnb, Alibaba, Autodesk, Capital Group, Carnival Corporation, The Coca-Cola Company, Comcast, Concur, Crate Barrel, eBay, Electronic Arts, Epic Games, FedEx, Fidelity Investments, General Electric, Honda, IKEA, Japan Airlines, Lufthansa, Maersk Transportation Logistics, Marriott, NBCUniversal, Panasonic, Panera Bread, PayPal, Philips, Qualcomm, Rabobank, Riot Games, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Spotify, Telefonica, Toshiba, Ubisoft, Viacom, WarnerMedia and The Washington Post. We also actively sell to government agencies. As of December 31, 2021, our public-sector customers included the U.S. Census Bureau, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. No customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue for any of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Less than 10% of our total revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 was derived from contracts or subcontracts terminable at the election of the federal government, and we do not expect such contracts to account for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2022. 7 Table of Contents Sales, Services and Marketing We market and sell our solutions globally through our direct sales and services organization and through many channel partners, including AT T, Deutsche Telecom, IBM, Microsoft, Orange Business Services and Telefonica Group. In addition to entering into agreements with resellers, we have several other types of sales and marketing focused alliances with entities such as system integrators, application service providers, referral partners and sales agents. By aligning with these partners, we believe we are better able to market our solutions and encourage increased adoption of our technology throughout the industry. Our sales, services and marketing professionals are based in locations across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific and focus on direct and channel sales, sales operations, professional services, account management and technical consulting. To support our sales efforts and promote the Akamai brand, we conduct comprehensive marketing programs. Our marketing strategies include an active public relations campaign, print advertisements, online advertisements, participation at trade shows (virtually or in person), strategic alliances, ongoing customer communication programs, training and sales support. Competition The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product and service innovations. We expect competition for our offerings to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants. We compete primarily on the basis of: the performance and reliability of our solutions; return on investment in terms of cost savings and new revenue opportunities for our customers; reduced infrastructure complexity; sophistication and functionality of our offerings; scalability; security; ease of implementation and use of service; customer support; and price. We compete with companies offering products and services that address internet performance problems, including companies that provide internet content delivery and hosting services, security solutions, technologies used by carriers to improve the efficiency of their systems, streaming content delivery services and equipment-based solutions for internet performance problems, such as load balancers and server switches. Other companies offer online distribution of digital media assets through advertising-based billing or revenue-sharing models that may represent an alternative method for charging for the delivery of content and applications over the internet. In addition, existing and potential customers may decide to purchase or develop their own hardware, software or other technology solutions rather than rely on a third-party provider like us. Our security solutions compete with those offered by both hardware and software providers, many of which are more established security vendors than we are. We believe that we compete favorably with other companies in our industry through the global scale of the Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform, which we believe provides the most effective means of meeting the needs of enterprise customers and is unique to us. In our view, we also benefit from the high quality of our offerings, our customer service and the information we can provide to our customers about their online operations and value. Government Regulation As a global technology company, Akamai is subject to complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations in areas such as data privacy and localization, liability for content delivered over our network, bribery, export controls, competition, tax and foreign exchange controls. Privacy laws, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, impact how we use data generated from our network as well as our ability to reach current and prospective customers, understand how our solutions are being used, transfer data about our employees and respond to customer requests allowed under the laws. Other laws and regulations that apply to the internet related to, among other things, content liability, security requirements, critical infrastructure designations, internet resiliency, law enforcement access to information, net neutrality, data localization requirements, industry regulations applicable to key suppliers to some of our customers and restrictions on social media or other content can have an impact on our business. For instance, regulations have been enacted or proposed in a number of countries that limit the delivery of certain types of content into those countries. As an example, restrictions were 8 Table of Contents adopted in India in 2020 prohibiting access to identified Chinese applications. Enactment and expansion of such laws and regulations would negatively impact our revenues or cause us to incur costs to redesign our systems to ensure compliance. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their inte