Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 87 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 87 Item 9B. Other Information 88 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 88 Item 11. Executive Compensation 88 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 89 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 89 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 92 SIGNATURES 93 2 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management as of the date hereof based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, should, forecasts, if, continues, goal, likely or similar expressions indicates a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. See Risk Factors elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of certain risks associated with our business. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Akamai provides solutions for securing, delivering and optimizing content and business applications over the Internet. At the core of our solutions is our globally-distributed Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform, which is designed to help our customers leverage the power and reach of the Internet while protecting them from malicious threats to their business. We deploy servers and technology at the edge of the Internet establishing touch points on its perimeter in more than 130 countries and nearly 1,500 networks around the world. This approach affords us unique insight and visibility into traffic volumes, attack patterns, vulnerabilities and other activities across this complex cloud of networks and systems. Leveraging these insights and our position at the edge, we offer our customers solutions designed to protect them from threats and attacks, while empowering them to securely deliver their business as they engage, entertain and interact with their customers; extend their internal systems beyond their corporate perimeters to control access and better leverage the cloud; and help them operate with the scale, resiliency and security competitiveness businesses demand. We believe that the edge is the next frontier of digital transformation the intersection of users, digital technology and transactions, cloud computing and entertainment and that our security, performance and delivery solutions can give our customers the competitive edge they need to capitalize on the opportunities this intersection creates. Our Strategy The technology landscape is rapidly evolving, driving businesses to enhance their digital capabilities to improve productivity, transform customer experiences, increase brand awareness and drive competitive advantage. The network known as the Internet of Things, or IoT, is now connecting billions of devices that transmit large volumes of data from and within offices, hospitals, manufacturing plants, power grids, roads, schools and homes every second. We believe that new technologies like blockchain are emerging that promise to surpass the ability of current methods to process transactions more quickly and deliver data and content more securely. In addition, organizations seeking streamlined operations, digital transformation and improved cost management are increasing their reliance on servers and networks comprising the cloud based on the promise of agility and scale a promise that has not always been realized. At the same time, there are challenges and risks that have the potential to disrupt progress in every industry, compromise online experiences, and, in the most extreme cases, destroy value that took decades to build. Security threats are growing more sinister and advanced. Enterprise applications are moving from behind the firewall to the cloud while employees increasingly demand remote access from a variety of devices which we believe makes securing access harder to achieve with just traditional perimeter defenses. More consumers are "cutting the cord" and consuming entertainment over the Internet rather than through traditional cable, and they are increasingly using mobile devices to view content and shop. Web pages are also vastly more complex than ever before with advertisements, videos, graphics and other third-party content, causing speed and reliability to suffer. We believe that Akamai is uniquely positioned to help our customers capitalize on the opportunities and mitigate the risks presented by this dynamic environment. The Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform is architected to surround and extend a customer s existing cloud architecture, so it can accelerate and secure cloud-based activities and workloads on a global scale, while also improving reliability and reducing cost. Our platform comprises more than 250,000 servers deployed in 3 Table of Contents approximately 3,900 locations around the world, tied together with sophisticated software and algorithms. Our software also resides on millions of end-user devices, as part of our work on client-assisted delivery for large media files. By placing integrated computing resources, data, content and security protection closer to end-users, at the edge, our technology is designed to extend our customers existing cloud solutions to deliver superior user experiences that are bi-directional, instantaneous, rich and secure. The platform is also architected to enable us to: identify, absorb and block security threats; efficiently route traffic away from Internet trouble spots; help our customer implement a Zero Trust security model as described below; detect what devices individuals are using and optimize content delivery to them; secure and manage customer identity; provide our customers with business, technical and analytical insights into their online operations; and understand different types of traffic visiting websites so that customers can respond to them. We believe that our scale, unique technology, high-quality intellectual property portfolio, industry-leading security capabilities, strong relationships with hundreds of leading telecommunications carriers and thousands of major brands on the web, and relentless and personalized attention to customer and partner needs create significant value for stockholders and provide a meaningful edge over competitors. Our Solutions We offer online solutions for the security, delivery and acceleration of websites and applications. Our customers include a large percentage of the world s most important brands, including hundreds of media companies, online retailers, major governments, financial institutions and other leading enterprises. Across all of these customers, our mission is to make digital experiences fast, intelligent and secure. Cloud Security Solutions Our Cloud Security Solutions are designed to defend websites, applications and data centers against a multitude of cyberattacks. These solutions include: Kona Site Defender Kona Site Defender is a cloud security solution that defends against network and application layer distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attacks, web application attacks and direct-to-origin attacks. This offering provides customizable protection for enterprises that want more control over their application security. Web Application Protector Web Application Protector is designed to safeguard web assets from web application and DDoS attacks, while improving performance. This offering provides easy-to-implement application security for organizations that do not have robust security teams or expertise. Site Shield Site Shield provides an additional layer of defense for critical websites and web applications. Site Shield is designed to cloak websites from the public Internet, essentially removing them from Internet-accessible IP address space. This helps prevent attackers from directly targeting the application origin and forces traffic to go through our network, where attacks can be better detected and mitigated. Bot Manager Bot Manager provides organizations with a flexible framework to better manage the wide array of bots, both helpful and malicious, accessing their websites. It offers the ability to identify bots, categorize different bots based on business or IT impact, and apply different management policies to mitigate that impact. Edge DNS The Domain Name System, or DNS, translates human-readable domain names into numerical IP addresses to enable individuals who type in a website name to reach the desired location on the Internet. Our Edge DNS (formerly known as Fast DNS) offering is a DNS resolution solution that is designed to quickly and dependably direct individuals to our customers' websites. Crucially, we have architected this service to protect against DNS-based DDoS attacks. Identity Cloud In January 2019, we purchased Janrain, Inc., a provider of customer identity access management solutions. Leveraging the technology we acquired, our Identity Cloud solution enables fast-to-deploy single sign-on (SSO), registration, authentication and preference management. It also enables centralized profile access management that is designed to facilitate our customers compliance with the myriad and changing privacy-related regulatory requirements around the world. 4 Table of Contents Prolexic Routed Prolexic Routed is a DDoS scrubbing solution that is designed to protect web- and IP-based applications, entire data centers and supporting network infrastructure from DDoS attacks. It provides cloud-based security against high-bandwidth, sustained DDoS attacks as well as potentially those that target specific applications and services. Client Reputation Client Reputation provides an additional layer of security based on Akamai s visibility into prior malicious behavior on the Akamai network. Our algorithms use both legitimate and attack traffic to profile the behavior of attacks, clients and applications. Client Reputation assigns risk scores to every known malicious IP address and enables customers to take action on individual clients based on the assessed risk to their organizations. Enterprise Security Solutions Our Enterprise Security Solutions are designed to help customers move from a legacy perimeter-based approach to security to what we refer to as a Zero Trust security model. Zero Trust is a network security model based on a strict identity verification process. The framework dictates that only authenticated and authorized users and devices can access applications and data. At the same time, it protects those applications and users from advanced threats on the Internet. Our approach is centered on dynamically controlling access to individual applications behind the network firewall and proactively protecting users from malware using the Intelligent Edge Platform. Our key Enterprise Security Solutions include: Enterprise Application Access Enterprise Application Access enables adaptive access to applications behind the firewall, based on identity and a multitude of dynamic security signals, without providing users access to our customer s broader corporate network. Enterprise Threat Protector Enterprise Threat Protector is designed to enable enterprise security teams to proactively and easily identify, block and mitigate targeted attacks such as malware, ransomware, phishing and data exfiltration that exploit DNS. Web and Mobile Performance Solutions The ultimate goal of our Web and Mobile Performance Solutions is to enable dynamic websites and applications to have instant response times, no matter where the user is, what device or browser they are using, or how they are connected to the Internet. This is accomplished through a variety of advanced technologies embedded in our platform, which can be thought of as a virtual, streamlined Internet built on top of the native Internet. Key offerings include: Ion Ion is a suite of intelligent performance optimization tools and controls designed to improve user experiences on the web and iOS and Android devices. This solution continuously monitors the end-user experience to adapt in real-time to changes in content, user behavior and connectivity. Dynamic Site Accelerator Dynamic Site Accelerator is designed to improve reliability, increase the offload of traffic from origin servers and enhance network performance while handling the specific requirements of dynamically-generated content without a costly hardware buildout. Using real-time network optimizations and advanced caching techniques, this solution is designed to accelerate and secure interactive websites; helping customers to scale to meet sudden traffic surges arising from flash sales or other events. Image Manager To help our customers cope with the multitude and variety of devices used by their users and the complexity of preparing images for delivery over the web, Image Manager automatically optimizes online images to attain the best combination of size, quality and file format suited for each image and device and automates the creation and delivery of tailored derivative image assets. CloudTest CloudTest helps customers prepare for business-critical traffic events or changes to their Internet-facing environment by empowering them to conduct large-scale load testing safely. The solution allows customers to conduct additional analysis of their websites in a pre-production environment. Testing capabilities include web and mobile applications with real-time analytics and customizable dashboards that allow for root cause analysis while tests are in process. mPulse mPulse is a real user monitoring offering that provides real-time website performance data to help customers improve their digital experiences. Using advanced algorithms and data visualization tools, mPulse generates insights that enable enterprises to identify and address performance issues based on their impact on customer engagement, conversions, revenue and other key business metrics. 5 Table of Contents Media Delivery Solutions In recent years, online and mobile gaming, as well as streaming of movies, television and live events, have come to represent a significant percentage of traffic on the Internet. An increasing number of large media companies have introduced over-the-top (often referred to as OTT) video offerings that have increased the amount of video available online. Providing solutions to optimize delivery of media content is an important part of our current and future strategy. Our Media Delivery Solutions are designed to enable enterprises to execute their digital media distribution strategies, not only by providing solutions to address their volume and global reach requirements but also by improving the end-user experience, boosting reliability and reducing the cost of Internet-related infrastructure. Our offerings include: Adaptive Media Delivery We provide delivery solutions for video and music streaming that are designed to cope with variable connection speeds and different devices and to reach disparate locations around the world. Download Media Delivery Our download delivery offering provides accelerated distribution for large file downloads, including games, progressive media (video and audio) files, documents and other file-based content. Media Services Live This service helps simplify the preparation of live-streamed television, enabling our customers to reliably deliver high-quality live content to online audiences across multiple types of devices and platforms. Media Analytics We offer a comprehensive suite of analytics tools to monitor online video viewing, while measuring audience engagement, and quality of service performance. These solutions are designed to provide actionable and relevant metrics to help businesses understand their entire media workflow from the initial introduction of media into the workstream through arrival at the device. NetStorage NetStorage is a globally-distributed cloud storage solution for our customers' content that offers automatic geographically-dispersed replication that is architected for resiliency, high availability and real time performance optimization. Carrier Solutions With the growth in consumer adoption of IP-delivered television and online/mobile gaming, carriers around the world have experienced significant traffic increases, resulting in congestion across networks from aggregation to backbone to interconnection. Compounding this challenge, security and personalized services are now critical for carriers to protect and grow their revenue and subscriber bases. To address these needs, our carrier offerings are designed to help customers operate a cost-efficient network that capitalizes on traffic growth and new subscriber services by reducing the complexity of building a content delivery network, or CDN, and interconnecting access providers. Our carrier offerings include: Security and Personalization Services (SPS) We offer an array of SPS solutions. Our SPS Secure Business offering is designed to enable carriers to sell to their small- and medium-sized business customers easy-to-deploy cyberthreat protection to prevent ransomware, phishing, botnets and zero-day malware attacks. The SPS Secure Consumer product is a cybersecurity solution designed to protect a carrier s consumer subscribers and IoT devices from phishing, viruses, ransomware and malware. The solution includes parental controls that allow subscribers to tailor Internet access for each family member from a simple web page. Our SPS Reach offering is designed to empower service providers to create in-browser messages that can reach 85% of target audiences within the first 24 hours. Multimedia messages including surveys, videos and web pages are delivered to subscribers smartphones, tablets and desktop computers. DNS Infrastructure We offer intelligent recursive DNS platforms built for effective management of DNS traffic in licensed, managed and cloud-based solutions. To improve subscriber experience, our DNS Infrastructure solutions manage subscriber preferences and enable security and personalization services that are designed for carriers. Aura Managed CDN Aura Managed CDN is a scalable, turnkey CDN solution designed to provide carriers with CDN capabilities through an infrastructure that is maintained by Akamai. With it, an operator can leverage the same CDN techniques used by Akamai, but on servers that are dedicated to the carrier's services. Operators can deliver multi-screen video services and large objects, plus offer commercial CDN services, relying on Akamai CDN experts and technology for content provisioning, delivery and reporting. 6 Table of Contents Services and Support Solutions Akamai provides an array of service and support offerings that are designed to assist our customers with integrating, configuring, optimizing and managing our core offerings. Once customers are deployed on our network, they can rely on our professional services experts for customized solutions, problem resolution and 24/7 technical support. Special features available to enterprises that purchase our premium support solution include a dedicated technical account team, proactive service monitoring, custom technical support handling procedures and customized training. With the increasing focus on security threats, we also offer specialized managed security services to help our customers implement and maintain Akamai cloud security solutions. These services include 24/7 traffic monitoring, configuration assistance, technical security reviews, threat advisories and emergency support for security events. Our Technology and Network The Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform provides the technological underpinnings for all of our solutions. We use data generated in connection with each of our solutions to improve and augment the functionality of our overlay network and, in turn, to improve the effectiveness of our other solutions. In this approach, insights and learnings are integrated across the broader platform in support of our entire solution portfolio. The Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform leverages more than 250,000 servers deployed in nearly 1,500 networks ranging from large, backbone network providers to medium and small Internet service providers, or ISPs, to cable modem and satellite providers to universities and other networks. By deploying servers within a wide variety of networks across more than 130 countries, we are better able to manage and control routing and delivery quality to geographically diverse users. We also have thousands of peering relationships that provide us with direct paths to end-user networks, which reduce data loss, while also potentially giving us more options for delivery at reduced cost. To make this wide-reaching deployment effective, we use specialized technologies, such as advanced routing, load balancing, data collection and monitoring. Our intelligent routing software is designed to ensure that website visitors experience fast page loading, access to applications and content assembly wherever they are on the Internet and regardless of global or local traffic conditions. Dedicated professionals staff our network operations command center 24 hours a day, seven days a week to monitor and react to Internet traffic patterns and trends. We frequently deploy enhancements to our software globally to strengthen and improve the effectiveness of our network. Our platform offers flexibility too. Customers can control the extent of their use of Akamai 's technology to scale on demand, using as much or as little capacity of the global platform as they require, to support widely varying traffic and rapid growth without the need for expensive and complex internal infrastructure. Customers As of December 31, 2019 , our customers included many of the world's leading corporations, including Adobe, Airbnb, Alibaba, Autodesk, Capital Group, Carnival Corporation, The Coca-Cola Company, Concur, Crate Barrel, eBay, Electronic Arts, Epic Games, FedEx, Fidelity Investments, General Electric, Honda, IKEA, Japan Airlines, JetBlue, Lufthansa, Maersk Transportation Logistics, Marriott, NBCUniversal, Panasonic, Panera Bread, PayPal, Philips, Qualcomm, Rabobank, Riot Games, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Spotify, Telefonica, Toshiba, Turner Broadcasting, Ubisoft, Viacom and The Washington Post. We also actively sell to government agencies. As of December 31, 2019 , our public-sector customers included the Federal Aviation Administration, the U.S. Census Bureau, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. No customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue for any of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 . Less than 10% of our total revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was derived from contracts or subcontracts terminable at the election of the federal government, and we do not expect such contracts to account for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2020 . 7 Table of Contents Sales, Services and Marketing We market and sell our solutions globally through our direct sales and services organization and through many channel partners including AT T, Deutsche Telecom, IBM, Microsoft, Orange Business Services and Telefonica Group. In addition to entering into agreements with resellers, we have several other types of sales and marketing focused alliances with entities such as system integrators, application service providers, referral partners and sales agents. By aligning with these partners, we believe we are better able to market our solutions and encourage increased adoption of our technology throughout the industry. Our sales, services and marketing professionals are based in locations across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia and focus on direct and channel sales, sales operations, professional services, account management and technical consulting. As of December 31, 2019 , we had 3,639 employees in these roles. To support our sales efforts and promote the Akamai brand, we conduct comprehensive marketing programs. Our marketing strategies include an active public relations campaign, print advertisements, online advertisements, participation at trade shows, strategic alliances, ongoing customer communication programs, training and sales support. Competition The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product and service innovations. We expect competition for our offerings to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants. We compete primarily on the basis of: the performance and reliability of our solutions; return on investment in terms of cost savings and new revenue opportunities for our customers; reduced infrastructure complexity; sophistication and functionality of our offerings; scalability; security; ease of implementation and use of service; customer support; and price. We compete with companies offering products and services that address Internet performance problems, including companies that provide Internet content delivery and hosting services, security solutions, technologies used by carriers to improve the efficiency of their systems, streaming content delivery services and equipment-based solutions for Internet performance problems, such as load balancers and server switches. Other companies offer online distribution of digital media assets through advertising-based billing or revenue-sharing models that may represent an alternative method for charging for the delivery of content and applications over the Internet. In addition, existing and potential customers may decide to purchase or develop their own hardware, software or other technology solutions rather than rely on a third-party provider like us. Our security solutions compete with those offered by both hardware and software providers, many of which are more established security vendors than we are. We believe that we compete favorably with other companies in our industry through the global scale of the Akamai Intelligent Edge Platform, which we believe provides the most effective means of meeting the needs of enterprise customers and is unique to us. In our view, we also benefit from the superior quality of our offerings, our customer service and the information we can provide to our customers about their online operations and value. Proprietary Rights and Licensing Our success and ability to compete are dependent on developing and maintaining the proprietary aspects of our technology and operating without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws and contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. As of December 31, 2019 , we owned, or had exclusive rights to, more than 416 U.S. patents covering our technology as well as patents issued by other countries. Our U.S.-issued patents have terms extendable to various dates between 2020 and 2039. We do not believe that the expiration of any particular patent in the near future would be materially detrimental to our business. In October 1998, we entered into a license agreement with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, under which we were granted a royalty-free, worldwide exclusive right to use and sublicense the intellectual property rights of MIT under various patent applications and copyrights relating to Internet content delivery technology. We seek to limit disclosure of our intellectual 8 Table of Contents property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us and by restricting access to our source code. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had 7,724 full-time and part-time employees. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, managerial and other personnel for whom competition is intense. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit. We believe our relations with our employees are good, and we have been acknowledged in respected publications as an excellent place to work. Additional Information Akamai was incorporated in Delaware in 1998, and we have our corporate headquarters at 145 Broadway, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Our Internet website address is www.akamai.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our Internet website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto that we have filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchang