Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C. C yber security 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 88 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11. Executive Compensation 89 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 90 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 90 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 94 SIGNATURES 95 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding future events and the future results of Akamai Technologies, Inc., which we refer to as we, us, or the Company. All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management as of the date hereof based on information currently available to our management. Use of words such as believes, could, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, seeks, projects, estimates, should, would, forecasts, if, continues, goal, likely, may, will, variations of such words or similar expressions are intended to identify a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: potential slowing revenue growth, global economic and geopolitical conditions, our ability to acquire or develop new solutions, our ability to compete effectively, including our ability to continue to grow our compute solutions, security risks stemming from ineffective information technology systems or cybersecurity breaches, risks of maintaining global operations, regulatory developments, intellectual property claims or disputes, investment related risks and maintaining an effective system of internal controls. See Risk Factors elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of certain risks associated with our business. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, including the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or other events that may be announced after the date hereof. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Akamai's mission is to power and protect life online. Since 1998, Akamai has developed and provided solutions for global enterprises to build, deliver and secure their digital experiences on our massively distributed worldwide network. This platform, which we refer to as Akamai Connected Cloud, is comprised of an edge and cloud architecture and underlying network for cloud computing, security and content delivery services. Akamai Connected Cloud spans more than 4,100 edge points-of-presence in approximately 130 countries and nearly 750 cities, with roughly 1,200 network partners. With this scale and distribution, Akamai Connected Cloud provides us with visibility and insight into traffic volumes, congestion, attack patterns, vulnerabilities and other activities across the internet's complex intersections of networks and systems. Leveraging these insights, Akamai Connected Cloud offers solutions designed to protect our customers from threats and attacks, while empowering them to securely deliver digital experiences to engage, entertain and interact with their customers. Akamai Connected Cloud also offers a continuum of computing designed to efficiently build, deploy and secure performant applications and workloads that require single-digit millisecond latency and global reach. Today, billions of people work, learn, shop, bank, communicate and do more online globally. We firmly believe that the internet s role in transforming the way we exchange ideas and information and conduct business is more vital than ever. Our strategy is to help continue to drive this transformation by offering compute, security and content delivery services on Akamai Connected Cloud that empower our customers to compete and operate with the scale, resilience and efficiency that their businesses demand. Our Solutions We provide solutions in three core offerings: security, content delivery and compute. We also provide services and support for our customers as they utilize our solutions. Security Our security solutions are designed to keep infrastructure, websites, applications, application programming interfaces ("APIs") and users safe from a multitude of cyberattacks and online threats while improving performance. Our solutions blend robust automation with customizable protections and managed security services to enable businesses to effectively manage risk and maximize the protections of their infrastructure, networks, applications and APIs. Akamai s security solutions include web 3 Table of Contents application and API protection, bot management and mitigation to protect against credential abuse and account takeover, distributed denial of service ("DDoS") mitigation, protection from in-browser threats to protect against supply chain compromise and audience hijacking. We also offer a growing set of solutions designed to help businesses implement a zero trust approach to security. Based on the concept of least privilege, which dictates that users, applications and services utilize the bare minimum amount of access needed to perform their function, these tools are intended to shift protections from a legacy approach based on establishing a corporate perimeter, to a more modern, risk-based approach. Our acquisition of Guardicore Ltd. ("Guardicore") in October 2021 was a significant milestone in positioning Akamai as a leader in implementing "zero trust" methodology. Guardicore s microsegmentation solution helps our customers prevent malicious lateral movement in their network through precise segmentation policies, visuals of activity within their IT environment and network security alerts. Other solutions in this category include zero trust network access, which replaces legacy virtual private networks, multi-factor authentication, micro-segmentation, which replaces legacy network firewalls and helps protect businesses from the threat of ransomware, and secure internet access, which helps protect against the threat of malware and phishing attacks. In May 2023, Akamai acquired Neosec, Inc. ("Neosec"), which enabled us to offer a solution we refer to as API Security that works to discover and audit APIs and monitor API activity. API Security uses behavioral analytics to detect and respond to threats and abuse detection and operates using a response platform based on data and behavioral analytics. We believe API Security will complement our application and API security portfolio by extending our visibility into the growing API threat landscape. Content Delivery Our content delivery solutions consist primarily of web and mobile performance focused solutions and media delivery solutions. Our web and mobile performance solutions are architected to enable dynamic websites and applications to have rapid response times, no matter where the user is, what device or browser they are using or how they are connected to the internet. These services leverage intelligent performance optimization and real-time monitoring, origin offload and network reliability, and insights that enable enterprises to identify and address performance issues. Akamai web and mobile performance capabilities also include global traffic management, site acceleration, application load balancing, large-scale load testing and real-user monitoring. Our media delivery solutions are designed to enable enterprises to execute their digital media distribution strategies by addressing volume and global reach requirements, improving the end-user experience, boosting reliability and reducing the cost of internet-related infrastructure. Underlying these solutions is technology to address variable connection speeds and device types, facilitate access to disparate locations around the world, accelerate large file downloads, reliably deliver high-quality live content across various devices and platforms, and enable comprehensive insights and real-time online video monitoring. Akamai media delivery solutions include video streaming and video player services, game and software delivery, broadcast operations, authoritative domain name system ("DNS"), resolution and data and analytics. Compute Akamai's cloud computing services, which we sometimes refer to as compute, include compute, storage, networking, database and container management services that are required to build, deploy and secure applications and workloads. The cloud computing services running on Akamai Connected Cloud enable companies to distribute workloads and applications across our core to edge infrastructure to help solve the cost, performance and scale challenges that centralized cloud computing platforms present today. In March 2022, Akamai acquired Linode Limited Liability Company ("Linode"), an established cloud computing platform. This acquisition was a significant milestone in our expansion into cloud computing services. While Linode was traditionally focused on individual developers, we are leveraging the Linode cloud computing services for enterprise customers by building new enterprise-grade core computing regions and connecting them to the Akamai network, which we believe will give Akamai an advantage over its bigger cloud rivals. While many other cloud providers are building their cloud platforms based on a centralized, data center-centric model, Akamai designed its cloud to be massively distributed based on the fundamental belief that modern applications will be comprised of workloads that will need to be automatically and efficiently distributed across a continuum of computing from cloud to edge in order to meet the specific performance and latency needs of that workload. In 2023, we launched 13 new core computing regions, bringing our total footprint to 24 regions around the world. In order to continue the expansion of our cloud computing services, we plan to continue increasing the number of computing regions on our platform. 4 Table of Contents Services and Support We provide an array of service and support offerings across our core offerings. Through our service and support offerings we work closely with our customers to develop creative and tailored solutions to assist them with integrating, configuring, optimizing and managing our core offerings. Once customers are deployed on Akamai Connected Cloud, they can rely on our professional services and security experts for customized solutions, problem resolution and 24/7 customer support. Additional features are available to enterprises that purchase our premium and managed security solutions, including a dedicated technical account team, proactive service monitoring, custom technical support handling, security traffic monitoring, technical security reviews, threat advisories and emergency support for security events. Human Capital Our employees our human capital are our most valuable resources as they are fundamental to our innovation, the operation and ongoing enhancement of Akamai Connected Cloud, the fostering and maintenance of relationships with our customers and the management of our operations. The importance of our workforce to our success is underscored by the inclusion of corporate mission critical goals centered on our employees. In 2023, we focused on fostering an inclusive community that supports the success of our employees and continuing to deliver a positive experience for both employees and customers by living our values each day. Different aspects of our human capital management are overseen by our board of directors as well as its Talent, Leadership and Compensation Committee and Environmental, Social and Governance Committee. As of December 31, 2023, we had over 10,250 employees located in more than 30 countries (with approximately 60% of those employees located outside of the U.S.) and representing over 100 nationalities, which we believe helps bring a global perspective to our operations. Our employees are grouped across the following roles, with the approximate percentage of the overall population noted: engineering and research and development (35%), services and support (27%), sales and marketing (18%) and administrative functions (20%). Engagement We continue to believe that an engaged employee workforce is key to having the productive, ethical and high-performing workplace needed to successfully compete in today s marketplace. We conduct quarterly surveys of our employees to assess a variety of key metrics related to key topics, such as engagement, inclusion and job satisfaction. Results from these surveys have consistently shown a strong sense of engagement and confidence in Akamai s future. We have been acknowledged in respected publications across the U.S., India and Poland, among other countries, as a great place to work. Continuing in 2023, all employees were able to participate in a company-wide program, developed by a behavioral research organization, that was intended to help us increase inclusivity, become more open to change and accelerate our innovation. In addition, we work closely with the Akamai Foundation to provide community service and charitable matching fund opportunities for Akamai employees, endeavors that have been shown to increase employee engagement. The Akamai Compassion Fund, created in 2020 by employees for employees with support from the Akamai Foundation, continued to provide a way for Akamai employees to unite and support global colleagues and their families during times of unexpected hardships following a catastrophic event, such as the ongoing war in Ukraine. Diversity Akamai is an equal opportunity employer that values the strength that diversity brings to the workplace. We do not tolerate discrimination on the basis of gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, race or ethnicity, protected veteran status, disability, or other protected group status. Akamai supports varied programs and practices designed to promote a diverse and inclusive working environment. We have eight employee resource groups ("ERGs") that offer opportunities for employees to come together for mutual support, education and development. ERGs encompass different racial and ethnic groups, persons with different physical or cognitive abilities, parents, military veterans, the LGBTQIA+ community and women. We track the diversity of our workforce and report quarterly to the board of directors on our progress to improve our representation. At December 31, 2023, global female representation was 27.4%, up slightly from 27.2.% at the end of 2022. Racial and ethnic minority representation in the U.S. was 41.1%, up from 40.3% at the end of 2022, and since the end of 2021, our Black representation and Hispanic representation have both increased. To help us improve the diversity of our workforce, we participate in or sponsor professional development and recruiting forums. We also train hiring managers to draft inclusive job descriptions intended to broaden the pool of eligible applicants. 5 Table of Contents Retention We have a demonstrated history of investing in our workforce by offering competitive salaries, wages and benefits. Our compensation and benefits philosophy is to maximize the effectiveness of pay and benefits programs to attract and retain the high caliber individuals needed to drive the success of our business, while balancing cost-effectiveness and competitive factors. Our benefits programs (which vary by country and region) include healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules and locations, adoption and fertility assistance, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and holistic wellness programs. Our wellness programs include educational offerings on healthy lifestyles, access to mental health experts and access to ergonomic advice and equipment. To foster a stronger sense of ownership and align the interests of employees with shareholders, stock awards are held by the vast majority of our employees under our broad-based stock incentive programs and most employees are eligible to participate in our employee stock purchase plan. We monitor voluntary attrition in assessing our overall human capital. Attrition was down in 2023 when compared to 2022. As a signatory to the White House Equal Pay Pledge, we are committed to monitoring our pay practices regularly and making adjustments, as necessary, to deliver on this pledge. We currently conduct bi-annual internal pay equity analyses (with the assistance of a nationally-recognized outside consultant), covering gender globally and race and gender in the U.S. We take action to remedy identified discrepancies when we believe it is appropriate. To date, no widespread patterns of disparity have been identified. In addition, succession planning is an ongoing priority for our leadership. We conduct annual succession planning for senior leadership, which is overseen by our board of directors, including development plans for the next level of our senior leaders. Annual talent reviews focus on both high performers as well as those with high potential to keep our pipeline of tomorrow s leaders full. Development We invest significant resources in professional development, career advancement and training for our global workforce. All employees are eligible to participate in our Akamai Elevation performance review program, which provides guidance around setting annual performance objectives, developing competencies and receiving feedback. For select employees, we offer leadership training workshops, 360-degree feedback and succession planning exercises to encourage and enable internal promotion and advancement. As a result of these investments and others, approximately 20% of open positions were filled with internal candidates in 2023. All employees are required to complete annual ethics and compliance and data security trainings. In addition to these required trainings, nearly all of our employees and contractors completed at least one training in our Akamai University program during 2023. FlexBase In May 2022, we launched FlexBase, which is a flexible workspace arrangement that allows over 95% of employees to choose to work from their home office, a Company office or a combination of both. We believe that flexible workforce positions and a focus on employee choice, make us a more attractive employer, increase productivity, enable us to recruit from a more diverse pool of applicants and present additional growth and development opportunities for our employees. Since 2022, we have rolled out a number of tools and resources to support this program, such as supporting employees with guidance on maximizing our internal tools to deliver great virtual meeting experiences. Customers Our customers include many of the world's leading corporations, such as Adobe, Airbnb, Alibaba, Autodesk, Capital Group, Carnival Corporation, The Coca-Cola Company, Comcast, Crate Barrel, eBay, Electronic Arts, Epic Games, FedEx, Fidelity Investments, Honda, IKEA, Japan Airlines, Liberty Mutual, Lufthansa, Maersk Transportation Logistics, Marriott, NBCUniversal, Panasonic, Panera Bread, Paramount Global, Philips, Rabobank, Riot Games, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Spotify, Telefonica, Toshiba, Ubisoft, WarnerMedia and The Washington Post. We also actively sell to government agencies. As of December 31, 2023, our public-sector customers included the U.S. Census Bureau, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of Transportation and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. No customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenue for any of the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Less than 10% of our total revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was derived from contracts 6 Table of Contents or subcontracts terminable at the election of the federal government, and we do not expect such contracts to account for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2024. Sales, Services and Marketing We market and sell our solutions globally through our field sales and services organization and through many channel partners, including AT T, Avant, BV Tech, Carahsoft, Deutsche Telecom, Kyndryl, Microsoft Azure and Telefonica Group. In addition to entering into agreements with resellers, we have several other types of sales and marketing focused alliances with entities such as system integrators, application service providers, technology solution distributors, referral partners and marketplaces. By aligning with these partners, we believe we are better able to market our solutions and leverage partners to add valuable services to complement our offerings and improve the customer experience. Our sales, services and marketing professionals are based in locations across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific and focus on direct and channel sales, sales operations, professional services, account management and technical consulting. To support our sales efforts and promote the Akamai brand, we conduct comprehensive marketing programs to shape perception and drive awareness and consideration of our solutions. Our marketing strategies include public relations, digital programmatic advertising, paid search and SEO marketing, content marketing, social media, strategic alliances, e-mail marketing programs, events and webinars, participation at industry trade shows and ongoing training and sales enablement. Competition The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product and service innovations. We expect competition for our offerings to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants. We compete primarily on the basis of: the performance and reliability of our solutions; massive distribution and availability of our network; return on investment in terms of cost savings and new revenue opportunities for our customers; reduced infrastructure complexity; sophistication and functionality of our offerings; our long-term product roadmaps; scalability; security; ease of implementation and use of service; customer support; and price. We compete with companies offering products and services that provide internet content delivery and hosting services, security and cloud computing solutions, technologies used by carriers to improve the efficiency of their systems, streaming content delivery services and equipment-based solutions for internet performance problems, such as load balancers and server switches. Other companies offer online distribution of digital media assets through advertising-based billing or revenue-sharing models that may represent an alternative method for charging for the delivery of content and applications over the internet. In addition, existing and potential customers may decide to purchase or develop their own hardware, software or other technology solutions rather than rely on a third-party provider like us. Our security solutions compete with those offered by both hardware and software providers. While our Linode-based solutions have historically competed with alternative cloud computing platforms focused on individual developers, we anticipate that going forward our cloud computing solutions will increasingly compete with the large so-called hyper-scaler cloud computing providers. We believe that we compete favorably with other companies in our industry through the global scale of Akamai Connected Cloud, which we believe provides the most effective means of meeting the needs of enterprise customers and is unique to us. In our view, we also benefit from the high quality of our offerings, our customer service and the information we can provide to our customers about their online operations and value. Government Regulation As a global technology company, Akamai is subject to complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations in areas such as data privacy and localization, cybersecurity, liability for content delivered over our network, various internet regulations, bribery, sanctions, export controls, competition, tax and foreign exchange controls. 7 Table of Contents Privacy laws, such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, impact how we use data generated from our network as well as our ability to reach current and prospective customers, understand how our solutions are being used, transfer data about our employees and respond to customer requests allowed under the applicable laws. Other laws and regulations that apply to the internet related to, among other things, content liability, security and disclosure requirements, critical infrastructure designations, internet resiliency, law enforcement access to information, net neutrality, so-called "fair share" or internet content taxes, data localization requirements, industry regulations applicable to key suppliers to some of our customers and restrictions on social media or other content can have an impact on our business. For instance, regulations have been enacted or proposed in a number of countries that limit the delivery of certain types of content into those countries. As an example, restrictions were adopted in India in 2020 prohibiting access to identified Chinese applications. Enactment and expansion of such laws and regulations in other jurisdictions would negatively impact our revenues or cause us to incur costs to redesign our systems to ensure compliance. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering payments or inducements to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. To the extent we export technical services, data, products or other technology outside of the U.S., we are subject to U.S. and international laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations, and sanctions against embargoed countries and other designated entities and individuals. Many of these laws and regulations are evolving and could be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices and in ways that could harm our business. For example, while we are generally not subject to regulations applicable to telecommunications companies, new or different interpretations of laws or regulations could subject us to regulatory supervision. In general, the nature and breadth of laws and regulations governing the internet may increase in the future; accordingly, we are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements or whether our compliance with such regulations will materially impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. For further discussion of how government regulations may affect our business, see the related discussion below in