Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Executive Officers of the Registrant 25 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B. Other Information 106 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 107 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 107 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 113 Signatures 114 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries PART I Item 1. Business. Albemarle Corporation was incorporated in Virginia in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 4250 Congress Street, Suite 900, Charlotte, North Carolina 28209. Unless the context otherwise indicates, the terms Albemarle, we, us, our or the Company mean Albemarle Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a leading global developer, manufacturer and marketer of highly-engineered specialty chemicals that are designed to meet our customers needs across a diverse range of end markets. We believe our purpose is making the world safe and sustainable by powering the potential of people. The end markets we serve include energy storage, petroleum refining, consumer electronics, construction, automotive, lubricants, pharmaceuticals, crop protection and custom chemistry services. We believe that our commercial and geographic diversity, technical expertise, innovative capability, flexible, low-cost global manufacturing base, experienced management team and strategic focus on our core base technologies will enable us to maintain leading positions in those areas of the specialty chemicals industry in which we operate. We and our joint ventures currently operate 29 production and research and development ( R D ) facilities, as well as a number of administrative and sales offices, around the world. As of December 31, 2019 , we served approximately 2,400 customers, none of which individually represents more than 10% of net sales of the Company, in approximately 75 countries. For information regarding our unconsolidated joint ventures see Note 10, Investments, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. On February 5, 2020, the Company announced that Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Luke Kissam had advised the Board of Directors that he will retire from his roles as an officer and director of Albemarle effective June 2020, for health reasons. The Board of Directors will be conducting a comprehensive search process, which will include internal and external candidates. Business Segments During 2019, we managed and reported our operations under three reportable segments: Lithium, Bromine Specialties and Catalysts. Each segment has a dedicated team of sales, research and development, process engineering, manufacturing and sourcing, and business strategy personnel and has full accountability for improving execution through greater asset efficiency, market focus, agility and responsiveness. Financial results and discussion about our segments included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are organized according to these categories except where noted. For financial information regarding our reportable segments and geographic area information, see Note 25, Segment and Geographic Area Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Lithium Segment Our Lithium business develops lithium-based materials for a wide range of industries and end markets. We are a low-cost producer of one of the most diverse product portfolios of lithium derivatives in the industry. We develop and manufacture a broad range of basic lithium compounds, including lithium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, lithium chloride, and value-added lithium specialties and reagents, including butyllithium and lithium aluminum hydride. Lithium is a key component in products and processes used in a variety of applications and industries, which include lithium batteries used in consumer electronics and electric vehicles, high performance greases, thermoplastic elastomers for car tires, rubber soles and plastic bottles, catalysts for chemical reactions, organic synthesis processes in the areas of steroid chemistry and vitamins, various life science applications, as well as intermediates in the pharmaceutical industry, among other applications. We also develop and manufacture cesium products for the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, and zirconium, barium and titanium products for various pyrotechnical applications, including airbag initiators. In addition to developing and supplying lithium compounds, we provide technical services, including the handling and use of reactive lithium products. We also offer our customers recycling services for lithium-containing by-products resulting from synthesis with organolithium products, lithium metal and other reagents. We plan to continue to focus on the development of new products and applications. Competition The global lithium market consists of producers primarily located in the Americas, Asia and Australia. Major competitors in lithium compounds include Sociedad Quimica y Minera de Chile S.A., Sichuan Tianqi Lithium, Jiangxi Ganfeng Lithium and Livent Corporation. In the cesium and other specialty metal business, key competitors include Sinomine and Sigma-Aldrich 3 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries Corporation. Competition in the global lithium market is largely based on product quality, product diversity, reliability of supply and customer service. Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts We obtain lithium through solar evaporation of our ponds at the Salar de Atacama, in Chile, and in Silver Peak, Nevada. After we obtain the lithium brine from the Salar de Atacama, we process it into lithium carbonate and lithium chloride at a plant in nearby La Negra, Chile. The lithium brine from our Silver Peak site is processed into lithium carbonate at our plant in Silver Peak. Subsequently, in other locations in the United States ( U.S. ), Germany, France and Taiwan, we further process the materials into various derivatives, depending on the markets we serve. In addition, we own undeveloped land with access to a lithium resource in Antofalla, within the Catamarca Province of Argentina. If necessary, we can also obtain lithium from other sources. Our mineral rights with respect to the Salar de Atacama in Chile consist exclusively of our right to access lithium brine, covering an area of approximately 16,700 hectares, pursuant to a long-term contract with the Chilean government, originally entered into in January 1975 by one of our predecessors and subsequently amended and restated. The amended agreement provides us with sufficient lithium to produce over 80,000 metric tons annually of technical and battery-grade lithium salts over the next 24 years at our expanding battery-grade manufacturing facilities in La Negra, Chile. In addition, the amended agreement provides for commission payments to the Chilean government based on sales price/metric ton, our support of research and development in Chile in lithium applications and solar energy, and our support of local communities in Northern Chile. Our mineral rights in Silver Peak, Nevada consist of our right to access lithium brine pursuant to our permitted and certified senior water rights, a settlement agreement with the U.S. government, originally entered into in June 1991, and our patented and unpatented land claims. Pursuant to the 1991 agreement, our water rights and our land claims, we have rights to all lithium that we can remove economically from the Clayton Valley Basin in Nevada. We have been operating at the Silver Peak site since 1966. Our Silver Peak site covers a surface of over 13,500 acres, 10,826 acres of which we own through a subsidiary. The remaining acres are owned by the U.S. government from whom we lease the land pursuant to unpatented land claims that are renewed annually. Based on our 2019 production levels, we believe that the amount of lithium brine we can economically obtain from our Silver Peak, Nevada site pursuant to our rights could support the current levels of lithium carbonate production for approximately 20 years. Assuming certain operating conditions are satisfied, our annual lithium carbonate production capacity is estimated to be at least 6,000 metric tons at our Silver Peak facility. However, no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of production of lithium carbonate at either Silver Peak or La Negra will be realized. We also obtain lithium through hard rock mining via our 49% interest in Windfield Holdings Pty. Ltd., which directly owns 100% of the equity of Talison Lithium Pty. Ltd., a company incorporated in Australia ( Talison ). Talison, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns and operates a lithium mine in Greenbushes, Western Australia and mines lithium ore, which is then milled and processed to separate lithium concentrate from the rest of the ore. Talison currently sells the lithium concentrate only to its shareholders. Talison has a leading position in two categories of lithium concentrates: (i) technical-grade lithium concentrates which have low iron content for use in the manufacture of glass, ceramics and heat-proof cookware; and (ii) a high-yielding chemical-grade lithium concentrate, used to produce lithium chemicals which form the basis for the manufacture of lithium-ion batteries for laptop computers, mobile phones, electric bicycles and electric vehicles. Albemarle s share of the chemical-grade lithium concentrate is processed into battery-grade lithium hydroxide at our Jiangxi and Sichuan, China facilities, and lithium carbonate and lithium hydroxide at our tolling partners in China. Following the completion of a chemical-grade concentrate expansion in 2019, Talison s annual lithium carbonate equivalent production capacity is approximately 160,000 metric tons, along with annual production capacity for 10,000 metric tons of technical-grade lithium concentrate, of which Albemarle s production share is 50 percent. However, no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of production of lithium concentrate at Talison will be realized. On October 31, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a 60% interest in Mineral Resources Limited s ( MRL ) Wodgina hard rock lithium mine project ( Wodgina Project ) in Western Australia and formed an unincorporated joint venture with MRL, named MARBL Lithium Joint Venture, for the exploration, development, mining, processing and production of lithium and other minerals (other than iron ore and tantalum) from the Wodgina Project and for the operation of the Kemerton lithium hydroxide conversion assets. Based on current market conditions, MARBL Lithium Joint Venture will idle production of spodumene until market demand supports bringing the mine back into production. The Kemerton plant is currently scheduled to be commissioned in stages during the first half of 2021, with an initial lithium hydroxide conversion capacity of 50,000 metric tons. 4 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries Bromine Specialties Segment Our bromine and bromine-based business includes products used in fire safety solutions and other specialty chemicals applications. Our fire safety technology enables the use of plastics in high performance, high heat applications by enhancing the flame resistant properties of these materials. End market products that benefit from our fire safety technology include plastic enclosures for consumer electronics, printed circuit boards, wire and cable products, electrical connectors, textiles and foam insulation. Our bromine-based business also includes specialty chemicals products such as elemental bromine, alkyl bromides, inorganic bromides, brominated powdered activated carbon and a number of bromine fine chemicals. These specialty products are used in chemical synthesis, oil and gas well drilling and completion fluids, mercury control, water purification, beef and poultry processing and various other industrial applications. Other specialty chemicals that we produce include tertiary amines for surfactants, biocides, and disinfectants and sanitizers. A number of customers of our bromine business operate in cyclical industries, including the consumer electronics and oil field industries. As a result, demand from our customers in such industries is also cyclical. Competition Our bromine business serves markets in the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the marketplace. Our most significant competitors are Lanxess AG and Israel Chemicals Ltd. Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts The bromine we use is sourced from two locations: Arkansas and the Dead Sea. Our bromine production operations in Arkansas are supported by an active brine rights leasing program. We estimate that, at current production levels, we will be able to produce bromine in Arkansas for decades. In addition, through our 50% interest in Jordan Bromine Company Limited ( JBC ), a consolidated joint venture with operations in Safi, Jordan, we source bromine from the Dead Sea, which is believed to have indefinite quantities of brine. Catalysts Segment Our three main product lines in this segment are (i) Clean Fuels Technologies ( CFT ), which is primarily composed of hydroprocessing catalysts ( HPC ) together with isomerization and akylation catalysts; (ii) fluidized catalytic cracking ( FCC ) catalysts and additives; and (iii) performance catalyst solutions ( PCS ), which is primarily composed of organometallics and curatives. We offer a wide range of HPC products, which are applied throughout the oil refining industry. Their application enables the upgrading of oil fractions to clean fuels and other usable oil feedstocks and products by removing sulfur, nitrogen and other impurities from the feedstock. In addition, they improve product properties by adding hydrogen and in some cases improve the performance of downstream catalysts and processes. We continuously seek to add more value to refinery operations by offering HPC products that meet our customers requirements for profitability and performance in the very demanding refining market. We provide our customers with customized FCC catalyst systems. FCC catalysts assist in the high yield cracking of refinery petroleum streams into derivative, higher-value products such as transportation fuels and petrochemical feedstocks like propylene. Our FCC additives are used to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide in FCC units and to increase liquefied petroleum gas olefins yield, such as propylene, and to boost octane in gasoline. Albemarle offers unique refinery catalysts to crack and treat the lightest to the heaviest feedstocks while meeting refinery yield and product needs. Within our PCS product line, we manufacture organometallic co-catalysts (e.g., aluminum, magnesium and zinc alkyls) used in the manufacture of alpha-olefins (i.e., hexene, octene, decene), polyolefins (polyethylene and polypropylene) and electronics. Our curatives include a range of curing agents used in polyurethanes, epoxies and other engineered resins. There were more than 600 refineries world-wide in 2019. Over the long-term, we expect to see some smaller refineries shutting down and being replaced by larger scale and more complex refineries, with growth concentrated in the Middle East and Asia. Oil refining has again increased moderately compared to the previous year. We estimate that there are currently approximately 600 FCC units being operated globally, each of which requires a constant supply of FCC catalysts. In addition, we estimate that there are approximately 3,000 HPC units being operated globally, or a capacity of approximately 46 million barrels per day, each of which typically requires replacement HPC catalysts once every one to four years. 5 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries Competition Our Catalysts segment serves the global market including the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Competition in these markets is driven by a variety factors. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, and the maintenance of a good safety record are the primary factors to compete effectively in the catalysts marketplace. In addition, through our research and development programs, we strive to differentiate our business by developing value-added products and products based on proprietary technologies. Our major competitors in the CFT catalysts market include Shell Catalysts Technologies, Advanced Refining Technologies and Haldor Topsoe. Our major competitors in the FCC catalysts market include W.R. Grace Co., BASF Corporation and China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec). In the PCS market, our major competitors include Nouryon, Lanxess AG and Lonza. Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts The major raw materials we use in our Catalysts operations include sodium silicate, sodium aluminate, kaolin, aluminum, ethylene, alpha-olefins, isobutylene, toluene and rare earths and metals, such as lanthanum, molybdenum, nickel and cobalt, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased or provided under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although we may use contracts with price caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We have an international strategic account program that uses cross-functional teams to serve large global customers. This program emphasizes creative strategies to improve and strengthen strategic customer relationships with emphasis on creating value for customers and promoting post-sale service. Complementing this program are regional Albemarle sales and technical personnel around the world who serve numerous additional customers globally. We also utilize commissioned sales representatives and specialists in specific market areas when necessary or required by law. Research and Development We believe that in order to generate revenue growth, maintain our margins and remain competitive, we must continually invest in research and development, product and process improvements and specialized customer services. Our research and development efforts support each of our business segments. The objective of our research and development efforts is to develop innovative chemistries and technologies with applications relevant within targeted key markets through both process and new product development. Through research and development, we continue to seek increased margins by introducing value-added products and proprietary processes and innovative green chemistry technologies. Our green chemistry efforts focus on the development of products in a manner that minimizes waste and the use of raw materials and energy, avoids the use of toxic reagents and solvents and utilizes safe, environmentally friendly manufacturing processes. Green chemistry is encouraged with our researchers through periodic focus group discussions and special rewards and recognition for outstanding new green developments. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property, including our patents, licenses and trade names, is an important component of our business. As of December 31, 2019 , we owned approximately 2,100 active patents and approximately 550 pending patent applications in key strategic markets worldwide. We also have acquired rights under patents and inventions of others through licenses, and we license certain patents and inventions to third parties. Regulation Our business is subject to a broad array of employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those under the Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ). We also are subject to similar state laws and regulations as well as local laws and regulations for our non-U.S. operations. We devote significant resources and have developed and implemented comprehensive programs to promote the health and safety of our employees and we maintain an active health, safety and environmental program. We finished 2019 with an OSHA occupational injury and illness incident rate of 0.35 for Albemarle employees and nested contractors, compared to 0.58 in 2018 . Our business and our customers are subject to significant requirements under the European Community Regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals ( REACH ). REACH imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. 6 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries Additionally, substances of high concern, as defined under REACH, are subject to an authorization process. Authorization may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even banning the product. REACH regulations impose significant additional responsibilities on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. Our significant manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union require significant compliance costs and may result in increases in the costs of raw materials we purchase and the products we sell. Increases in the costs of our products could result in a decrease in their overall demand; additionally, customers may seek products that are not regulated by REACH, which could also result in a decrease in the demand of certain products subject to the REACH regulations. The Toxic Substances Control Act ( TSCA ), as amended in June 2016, requires chemicals to be assessed against a risk-based safety standard and calling for the elimination of unreasonable risks identified during risk evaluation. This regulation and other pending initiatives at the U.S. state level, as well as initiatives in Canada, Asia and other regions, will potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These assessments may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Historically, there has been scrutiny of certain brominated flame retardants by regulatory authorities, legislative bodies and environmental interest groups in various countries. We manufacture a broad range of brominated flame retardant products, which are used in a variety of applications. Concern about the impact of some of our products on human health or the environment may lead to regulation or reaction in our markets independent of regulation. Environmental Regulation We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations is an important consideration for us. Key aspects of our operations are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition, we incur substantial capital and operating costs in our efforts to comply with them. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations and may become subject to claims for personal injury and/or property damage relating to the release of such substances into the environment. In addition, some of our current properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes, which could contain currently unknown contamination that could expose us to governmental requirements or claims relating to environmental remediation, personal injury and/or property damage. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities also may be imposed on many different entities with a relationship to the hazardous substances at issue, including, for example, entities that formerly owned or operated the property affected by the hazardous substances and entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the affected property, as well as entities that currently own or operate such property. We are subject to such laws, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as CERCLA or Superfund, in the U.S., and similar foreign and state laws. We may have liability as a potentially responsible party ( PRP ) with respect to active off-site locations under CERCLA or state equivalents. We have sought to resolve our liability as a PRP at these sites through indemnification by third parties and settlements, which would provide for payment of our allocable share of remediation costs. Because the cleanup costs are estimates and are subject to revision as more information becomes available about the extent of remediation required, and in some cases we have asserted a defense to any liability, our estimates could change. Moreover, liability under CERCLA and equivalent state statutes may be joint and several, which could require us to pay in excess of our pro rata share of remediation costs. Our understanding of the financial strength of other PRPs has been considered, where appropriate, in estimating our liabilities. Accruals for these matters are included in the environmental reserve. Our management is actively involved in evaluating environmental matters and, based on information currently available to us, we have concluded that our outstanding environmental liabilities for unresolved waste sites currently known to us should not have a material effect on our operations. See Safety and Environmental Matters in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details. 7 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries Climate Change The growing concerns about climate change and the related increasingly stringent regulations may provide us with new or expanded business opportunities. We provide solutions to companies pursuing alternative fuel products and technologies (such as renewable fuels), emission control technologies (including mercury emissions), alternative transportation vehicles and energy storage technologies and other similar solutions. As demand for, and legislation mandating or incentivizing the use of, alternative fuel technologies that limit or eliminate greenhouse gas emissions increase, we continue to monitor the market and offer solutions where we have appropriate technology and believe we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities that may arise from such demand or legislation. Recent Acquisitions, Joint Ventures and Divestitures During recent years, we have devoted resources to acquisitions and joint ventures, including the subsequent integration of acquired businesses. These acquisitions and joint ventures have expanded our base business, provided our customers with a wider array of products and presented new alternatives for discovery through additional chemistries. In addition, we have pursued opportunities to divest businesses which do not fit our high priority business growth profile. Following is a summary of our significant acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures over the last three years. On October 31, 2019, we completed the acquisition of a 60% interest in MRL s Wodgina Project in Western Australia and formed an unincorporated joint venture with MRL for the exploration, development, mining, processing and production of lithium and other minerals (other than iron ore and tantalum) from the Wodgina Project and for the operation of the Kemerton assets, for a total purchase price of approximately $1.3 billion , subject to certain adjustments capped at $22.5 mil