Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 28 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 51 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 Executive Officers of the Registrant 51 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 Item 6. [Reserved] 54 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 54 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 82 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 84 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 137 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 137 Item 9B. Other Information 137 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 137 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 137 Item 11. Executive Compensation 138 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 138 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 138 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 138 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 138 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 144 Signatures 145 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries PART I Item 1. Business. Albemarle Corporation was incorporated in Virginia in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 4250 Congress Street, Suite 900, Charlotte, North Carolina 28209. Unless the context otherwise indicates, the terms Albemarle, we, us, our or the Company mean Albemarle Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Albemarle leads the world in transforming essential resources into critical ingredients for mobility, energy, connectivity, and health. Our purpose is to enable a more resilient world. We partner to pioneer new ways to move, power, connect, and protect. The end markets we serve include grid storage, automotive, aerospace, conventional energy, electronics, construction, agriculture and food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices. We believe that our world-class resources with reliable and consistent supply, our leading process chemistry, high-impact innovation, customer centricity and focus on people and planet will enable us to maintain a leading position in the industries in which we operate. We and our joint ventures currently operate more than 25 production and research and development ( R D ) facilities, as well as a number of administrative and sales offices, around the world. As of December 31, 2023, we served approximately 1,900 customers in approximately 70 countries. For information regarding our unconsolidated joint ventures, see Note 10, Investments, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Business Segments Effective January 1, 2023, the Company realigned its Lithium and Bromine global business units into a new corporate structure designed to better meet customer needs and foster talent required to deliver in a competitive global environment. In addition, the Company announced its decision to retain its Catalysts business under a separate, wholly-owned subsidiary renamed Ketjen. During 2023, we managed and reported our operations under three reportable segments: Energy Storage, Specialties and Ketjen. Each segment has a dedicated team of sales, research and development, process engineering, manufacturing and sourcing, and business strategy personnel and has full accountability for improving execution through greater asset efficiency, market focus, agility and responsiveness. Financial results and discussion about our segments included in this report are organized according to these categories except where noted. For financial information regarding our reportable segments and geographic area information, see Note 25, Segment and Geographic Area Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Energy Storage Segment Our Energy Storage business pioneers better lithium use through reliable supply and consistent quality. We develop and manufacture a broad range of basic lithium compounds, including lithium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, and lithium chloride. Lithium is a key component in products and processes used in a variety of applications and industries, which include lithium batteries used in consumer electronics and electric vehicles, power grids and solar panels, high performance greases, specialty glass used in consumer appliances and electronics, organic synthesis processes in the areas of steroid chemistry and vitamins, various life science applications, as well as intermediates in the pharmaceutical industry, among other applications. In addition to developing and supplying lithium compounds, we provide technical services, including the handling and use of reactive lithium products. We also offer our customers recycling services for lithium-containing by-products resulting from synthesis with organolithium products, lithium metal and other reagents. We plan to continue to focus on the development of new products and applications. Competition The global lithium market is highly competitive and growing very rapidly. It is characterized by aggressive expansion and entry from existing and new players, including automotive OEMs, commodity traders, junior miners, and large, well-capitalized diversified miners. Producers are primarily located in the Americas, Africa, Asia and Australia. Major competitors in lithium compounds include Sociedad Quimica y Minera de Chile S.A., Sichuan Tianqi Lithium, Jiangxi Ganfeng Lithium, Rio Tinto plc, Pilbara Minerals, Arcadium Lithium, Tesla and a large number of additional Chinese companies. Competition in the global lithium market is increasingly based on index-based market pricing and differentiated via product quality, product diversity, reliability of supply and customer service. Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts We obtain lithium: (a) by purchasing lithium concentrate from our 49%-owned joint venture, Windfield Holdings Pty. Ltd. ( Windfield ), which directly owns 100% of the equity of Talison Lithium Pty. Ltd., a company incorporated in Australia 3 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries ( Talison ) that owns the Greenbushes mine, and from our 50%-owned unincorporated joint venture, MARBL Lithium Joint Venture ( MARBL ) in Western Australia, which owns the Wodgina hard rock lithium mine project ( Wodgina ); and (b) through solar evaporation of our ponds at the Salar de Atacama, in Chile, and in Silver Peak, Nevada. In addition, we hold mineral rights in defined areas of Kings Mountain, North Carolina with available lithium resources and we own undeveloped land with access to a lithium resource in Antofalla, within the Catamarca Province of Argentina. As necessary, we can also obtain lithium from other sources. See Item 2. Properties, for additional disclosures of our lithium mineral properties. Specialties Segment Our Specialties business optimizes our portfolio of bromine and highly specialized lithium solutions. Our Specialties business serves a variety of industries, including energy, mobility, connectivity, and health. Specialty products are essential in both internal combustion and electric vehicles, from high-voltage cables and powertrains to airbags and tires. We enable digital innovation focused on safety and reliability, including fire safety compounds. Our fire safety technology enables the use of plastics in high performance, high heat applications by enhancing the flame resistant properties of these materials. End market products that benefit from our fire safety technology include plastic enclosures for consumer electronics, printed circuit boards, wire and cable products, electrical connectors, textiles and foam insulation. In energy, infrastructure for renewable grid and electrified transport is enabled by our fire safety solutions. In health, our lithium specialties products are precursors for many pharmaceuticals, while bromine specialties are used to help ensure safer food and water supplies. Other bromine-based specialty chemicals products include elemental bromine, alkyl bromides, inorganic bromides, brominated powdered activated carbon and a number of bromine fine chemicals. Our value-added lithium specialties products include butyllithium and lithium aluminum hydride. We also develop and manufacture cesium products for the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, and zirconium, barium and titanium products for various pyrotechnical applications, including airbag initiators. A number of customers of our Specialties business operate in cyclical industries, including the consumer electronics and oil field industries. As a result, demand from our customers in such industries is also cyclical. Competition Our Specialties business serves markets in the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. R D, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the marketplace. Our most significant competitors are Lanxess AG and Israel Chemicals Ltd, as well as producers in India and China. Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts The bromine we use is originally sourced from two locations: Arkansas and the Dead Sea. Our bromine production operations in Arkansas are supported by an active brine rights leasing program. In addition, through our 50% interest in Jordan Bromine Company Limited ( JBC ), a consolidated joint venture established in 1999 with operations in Safi, Jordan, we acquire bromine that is originally sourced from the Dead Sea. JBC processes the bromine at its facilities into a variety of end products. See Item 2. Properties, for additional disclosures for our mineral properties. Ketjen Segment Our three main product lines in this segment are (i) Clean Fuels Technologies ( CFT ), which is primarily composed of hydroprocessing catalysts ( HPC ) together with isomerization and akylation catalysts; (ii) fluidized catalytic cracking ( FCC ) catalysts and additives; and (iii) performance catalyst solutions ( PCS ), which is primarily composed of organometallics and curatives. We offer a wide range of HPC products, which are applied throughout the oil refining industry. Their application enables the upgrading of oil fractions to clean fuels and other usable oil feedstocks and products by removing sulfur, nitrogen and other impurities from the feedstock. In addition, they improve product properties by adding hydrogen and in some cases improve the performance of downstream catalysts and processes. We continuously seek to add more value to refinery operations by offering HPC products that meet our customers requirements for profitability and performance in the very demanding refining market. We provide our customers with customized FCC catalyst systems, which assist in the high yield cracking of refinery petroleum streams into derivative, higher-value products such as transportation fuels and petrochemical feedstocks like propylene. Our FCC additives are used to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide in FCC units and to increase liquefied petroleum gas olefins yield, such as propylene, and to boost octane in gasoline. Albemarle offers unique refinery catalysts to crack and treat the lightest to the heaviest feedstocks while meeting refinery yield and product needs. 4 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries Within our PCS product line, we manufacture organometallic co-catalysts (e.g., aluminum, magnesium, and zinc alkyls) used in the manufacture of alpha-olefins (e.g., hexene, octene, decene), polyolefins (e.g., polyethylene and polypropylene), and electronics. Our curatives include a range of curing agents used in polyurethanes, epoxies and other engineered resins. There were more than 700 refineries world-wide as of December 31, 2023. We expect to continue to see some less profitable, typically smaller, refineries shutting down and, over the long-term, being replaced by larger scale and more complex refineries, with growth concentrated in the Middle East and Asia. Oil refinery utilization continues to return to more typical rates after low refinery utilization during the COVID pandemic periods. Advances in sustainable aviation fuels, petroleum products and renewable diesel are expected to continue. We estimate that there are currently approximately 600 FCC units being operated globally, each of which requires a constant supply of FCC catalysts. In addition, we estimate that there are approximately 4,000 HPC units being operated globally, each of which typically requires replacement HPC catalysts once every one to four years. Competition Our Ketjen segment serves the global market including the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Competition in these markets is driven by a variety of factors. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, and the maintenance of a good safety record are the primary factors to compete effectively in the catalysts marketplace. In addition, through our research and development programs, we strive to differentiate our business by developing value-added products based on proprietary technologies. Our major competitors in the CFT catalysts market include Shell Catalysts Technologies, Advanced Refining Technologies and Haldor Topsoe. Our major competitors in the FCC catalysts market include W.R. Grace Co., BASF Corporation and China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec). In the PCS market, our major competitors include Nouryon, Lanxess AG and Arxada. Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts The major raw materials we use in our Ketjen operations include sodium silicate, sodium aluminate, kaolin, aluminum, ethylene, alpha-olefins, isobutylene, toluene and metals, such as lanthanum, molybdenum, nickel and cobalt, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased or provided under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although we may use contracts with price caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. Human Capital Our main human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop the highest quality talent and ensure they feel safe, supported and empowered to do the best work they can do. We believe providing a diverse, equal and inclusive workplace facilitates opportunities for innovation, fosters good decision-making practices, and promotes employee engagement and high productivity across our organization. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 9,000 employees, including employees of our consolidated joint ventures, of whom 3,700, or 41%, are employed in the U.S. and the Americas; 3,300, or 36%, are employed in Asia Pacific; 1,500, or 17%, are employed in Europe; and 500, or 6%, are employed in the Middle East or other areas. Approximately 26% of these employees are represented by unions or works councils. We believe that we generally have a good relationship with our employees, and with those unions and works councils. Health and Safety The health and safety of our employees is a part of our core values at Albemarle and is integral to how we conduct business. Our employees, contractors, and visitors follow a comprehensive set of written health and safety policies and procedures at both the corporate and local site levels. We routinely audit ourselves against our policies, procedures and standards, using internal and third-party resources. We also include health and safety metrics in our annual incentive plan for all employees to incentivize our commitment to safety. In 2023, we maintained our Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) occupational injury and illness incident rate of 0.14 for our employees and nested contractors, the same as in 2022. In addition, we provide all employees and their dependents with access to our Employee Assistance Program, which provides free mental and behavioral health resources. 5 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Led by our Vice President, Diversity and Inclusion, we strive to develop inclusion and diversity initiatives and deliver meaningful change in our global organization. A primary focus in our recruiting efforts is to drive greater diversity in our workforce, including higher representation in the professional and managerial job categories. We want to ensure that our workplace reflects the communities in which we live and work. Our recruiting policy includes a requirement that we include individuals from gender or racial minority groups among those we interview for openings at the manager level and above. We seek to provide employees with a desirable workplace that will enable us to attract and retain top talent. We believe employees should be compensated through wages and benefits, based on experience, expertise, performance, and the criticality of their roles in the Company. We also perform an annual review of our pay practices by gender, and in the U.S. by gender and race, to ensure that they are fair and equitable, and not influenced by biased opinions or discrimination. In addition, we have established employee groups, known as Connect groups, to promote an atmosphere of inclusion and encouragement in which every employee s voice can be heard. These Connect groups provide opportunities for employees to share their backgrounds, experiences, and beliefs, and to use them to benefit others through mentoring and volunteering in the local community, among other activities. Investment in Talent Investing in talent is a critical process for Albemarle because it allows us to be proactive and anticipate key organizational needs for talent and capabilities. This enables us to efficiently and effectively ensure that we have the right talent pipeline to drive Albemarle s success into the future. We also provide leadership development through performance coaching, comprehensive feedback, plant training including health, safety and environmental topics, and experiential development and mentoring. Our leadership development is a cornerstone to our talent management strategy. We also invest in our people through enhanced training and development opportunities and by seeking to foster a diverse workforce, equitable workplace and an inclusive culture that enables employees to reach their full potential. We also invest in our people through enhanced training and development opportunities and by seeking to foster a diverse workforce, equitable workplace and an inclusive culture that enables employees to reach their full potential. Our incentive program is designed to provide incentives and rewards for achieving Albemarle s annual goals and objectives. The Executive Compensation Committee of the Board has the overall responsibility of evaluating the performance of the CEO and approving the compensation structure for senior management and other key employees. The Executive Compensation Committee determines performance goals under our incentive program annually to ensure our executive officers execute on short-term financial and strategic initiatives that drive our business strategy and long-term shareholder value. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We have an international strategic account program that uses cross-functional teams to serve large global customers. This program emphasizes creative strategies to improve and strengthen strategic customer relationships with emphasis on creating value for customers and promoting post-sale service. Complementing this program are regional Albemarle sales and technical personnel around the world who serve numerous additional customers globally. We also utilize commissioned sales representatives and specialists in specific market areas when necessary or required by law. Research and Development We believe that in order to generate revenue growth, maintain our margins and remain competitive, we must continually invest in research and development, product and process improvements and specialized customer services. Our research and development efforts support each of our business segments. The objective of our research and development efforts is to develop innovative chemistries and technologies with applications relevant within targeted key markets through both process and new product development. Through research and development, we continue to seek increased margins by introducing value-added products and proprietary processes and innovative green chemistry technologies. Our green chemistry efforts focus on the development of products in a manner that minimizes waste and the use of raw materials and energy, avoids the use of toxic reagents and solvents and utilizes safe, environmentally friendly manufacturing processes. Green chemistry is encouraged with our researchers through periodic focus group discussions and special rewards and recognition for outstanding new green developments. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property, including our patents, licenses and trade names, is an important component of our business. As of December 31, 2023, we owned more than 1,600 active patents and more than 550 pending patent applications in key 6 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries strategic markets worldwide. We also have acquired rights under patents and inventions of others through licenses, and we license certain patents and inventions to third parties. Regulation Our business is subject to a broad array of employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those under the OSHA. We also are subject to similar state laws and regulations as well as local laws and regulations for our non-U.S. operations. We devote significant resources and have developed and implemented comprehensive programs to promote the health and safety of our employees, and we maintain an active health, safety and environmental program. We finished 2023 with an OSHA occupational injury and illness incident rate of 0.14 for Albemarle employees and nested contractors, compared to 0.14 in 2022. Our business and our customers are subject to significant requirements under the European Community Regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals ( REACH ). REACH imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern, as defined under REACH, are subject to an authorization process. Authorization may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even banning the product. REACH regulations impose significant additional responsibilities on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. Our significant manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union require significant compliance costs and may result in increases in the costs of raw materials we purchase and the products we sell. Increases in the costs of our products could result in a decrease in their overall demand; additionally, customers may seek products with lower regulatory compliance requirements, which could also result in a decrease in the demand of certain products subject to the REACH regulations. The Toxic Substances Control Act ( TSCA ), as amended in June 2016, requires chemicals to be assessed against a risk-based safety standard and calls for the elimination of unreasonable risks identified during risk evaluation. This regulation and other pending initiatives at the U.S. state level, as well as initiatives in Canada, Asia and other regions, will potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These assessments may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Historically, there has been scrutiny of certain brominated fire safety solutions by regulatory authorities, legislative bodies and environmental interest groups in various countries. We manufacture a broad range of brominated fire safety solution products, which are used in a variety of applications. Concern about the impact of some of our products on human health or the environment may lead to regulation or reaction in our markets independent of regulation. Environmental Regulation We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations is an important consideration for us. Key aspects of our operations are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition, we incur substantial capital and operating costs in our efforts to comply with them. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations and may become subject to claims for personal injury and/or property damage relating to the release of such substances into the environment. In addition, some of our current properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes, which could contain currently unknown contamination that could expose us to governmental requirements or claims relating to environmental remediation, personal injury and/or property damage. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities also may be imposed on many different entities with a relationship to the hazardous substances at issue, including, for example, entities that formerly owned or operated the property affected by the hazardous substances and entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the affected property, as well as entities that currently own or operate such property. We are subject to such laws, including the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as CERCLA or Superfund, in the U.S., and similar foreign and state laws. We may have 7 Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries liability as a potentially responsible party ( PRP ) with respect to active off-site locations under CERCLA or state equivalents. We have sought to resolve our liability as a PRP at these sites through indemnification by third parties and settlements, which would provide for payment of our allocable share of remediation costs. Because the cleanup costs are estimates and are subject to revision as more information becomes available about the extent of remediation required, and in some cases we have asserted a defense to any liability, our estimates could change. Moreover, liability under CERCLA and equivalent state statutes may be joint and several, which could require us to pay in excess of our pro rata share of remediation costs. Our understanding of the financial strength of other PRPs has been considered, where appropriate, in estimating our liabilities. Accruals for these matters are included in the environmental reserve. Our management is actively involved in evaluating environmental matters and, based on information currently available to us, we have concluded that our outstanding environmental liabilities for unresolved waste sites currently known to us should not have a material effect on our operations. See Safety and Environmental Matters in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details. Climate Change and Natural Resources The growing concerns about climate change and the related increasingly stringent regulations may provide us with new or expanded business opportunities. We provide solutions to companies pursuing alternative fuel products and technologies (such as renewable fuels), emission control technologies (including mercury emissions), alternative transportation vehicles and energy storage technologies and other similar solutions. As demand for, and legislation mandating or incentivizing the use of, alternative fuel technologies that limit or eliminate greenhouse gas emissions increase, we continue to monitor the market and offer solutions where we have appropriate technology and believe we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities that may arise from such demand or legislation. In addition to potential business opportunities, we acknowledge our responsibility to address the impact of our operations on the environment