Item 1. Business 3 Information about our Executive Officers 16 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 2. Properties 39 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 39 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 39 PART II 40 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 Item 6. [Reserved] 41 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III 93 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 94 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 94 PART IV 95 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Signatures 98 Invisalign, Align, the Invisalign logo, ClinCheck, Made to Move, Invisalign Assist, Invisalign Teen, Invisalign Go, Vivera, SmartForce, SmartTrack, SmartStage, SmileView, iTero, iTero Element, Orthocad, iCast, iRecord and exocad, among others, are trademarks and/or service marks of Align Technology, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies and may be registered in the United States and/or other countries. 2 In addition to historical information, this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations and intentions regarding our strategic objectives and the means to achieve them, our estimates regarding the size and opportunities of the markets we are targeting along with our expectations for growth in those markets, our beliefs regarding the impact of technological innovation in general, and in our solutions and products in particular, on target markets and patient care, our beliefs regarding digital dentistry and its potential to impact our business, our intentions regarding expanding our business, including its impact on our operational flexibility and responsiveness to customer demand, our beliefs regarding the potential for clinical solutions and their utilization to increase sales of our Invisalign system as well as the complementary products and solutions themselves, our beliefs regarding doctor training and its impact on Invisalign system utilization, our beliefs regarding the importance of our manufacturing operations on our success, our beliefs regarding the need for and benefits of our technological development on Invisalign treatment, the areas of development in which we focus our efforts, and the advantages of our intellectual property portfolio, our beliefs regarding our business strategy and growth drivers, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding the utilization rates for our products, including the impact of marketing on those rates and causes for periodic fluctuations of the rates, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality and the COVID-19 disruptions to seasonality, our expectations regarding the sales growth of our intraoral scanner sales in international markets, our expectations regarding the productivity impact additional sales representatives will have on our sales and the impact of specialization of those representatives in sales channels, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets and their growth, our expectation regarding customer and consumer purchasing behavior, including expectations related to the consumer demand environment in China especially for U.S. based products and services, our expectations regarding competition and our ability to compete in our target markets, our beliefs concerning our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, our beliefs regarding our culture and commitment and its impact on our financial and operational performance and its importance to our future success, our expectations for future investments in and benefits from consumer demand sales and marketing activities, our expectations regarding the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic and the health, safety and economic impact from it, on the global economy, the businesses of our customers, and us, including our preparedness to react to changing circumstances and overall on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition, our expectations for our expenses and capital obligations and expenditures in particular, the actions we will take to control spending and for investments, our intentions regarding the investment of our international earnings from operations, our belief regarding the sufficiency of our cash balances and borrowing capacity, our judgments regarding the estimates used in our revenue recognition, and assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, our expectations regarding our tax positions and the assumptions we make related to our tax obligations, our expectations regarding potential additional litigation with SDC Financial LLC and certain affiliates, the level of our operating expenses and gross margin and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies and any other statements that address events or developments that we intend or believe will or may occur in the future. Terminology such as believe, anticipate, should, could, intend, will, plan, expect, estimate, project, target, may, possible, potential, forecast and positioned and similar references to future periods are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements are accompanied by such words. These or any forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. Business. Our Company Align Technology, Inc. ( We , Our , Align ) is a global medical device company primarily engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of Invisalign clear aligners, iTero intraoral scanners and services for dentistry, and exocad computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing ( CAD/CAM ) software for dental laboratories and dental practitioners. We also market and sell consumer products that are complementary to our doctor-prescribed principal products under the Invisalign and other brands, including retainers, aligner cases (clamshells), teeth whitening products and cleaning solutions (crystals, foam and other material) (collectively Consumer Products ). Our primary goals are to establish clear aligners as the principal solution for the treatment of malocclusions, or the misalignment of teeth, and our Invisalign system as the treatment solution of choice by orthodontists, general dental practitioners and patients globally, our intraoral scanners as the 3 preferred scanning technology for digital dental scans, and our exocad CAD/CAM software as the solution of choice for dental labs. Align s corporate headquarters are located at 410 North Scottsdale Road, Suite 1300, Tempe, Arizona 85281. Our telephone number is 602-742-2000. Our internet address is www.aligntech.com . Our Americas regional headquarters is located in Raleigh, North Carolina, U.S.A.; our European, Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) regional headquarters is located in Rotkreuz, Switzerland; and our Asia Pacific ( APAC ) regional headquarters is located in Singapore. We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner and (2) Imaging Systems and CAD/CAM Services ( Systems and Services ). For the year ended December 31, 2021, Clear Aligner net revenues represented approximately 82% of worldwide net revenues, while Systems and Services net revenues represented the remaining 18%. We sell the majority of our products directly through a dedicated and specialized sales force to our customers: orthodontists, general practitioner dentists ( GPs ), restorative and aesthetic dentists, including prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons, and dental laboratories. We also sell through sales agents and distributors in certain countries. In addition, we sell directly to Dental Support Organizations ( DSOs ) who contract with dental practices to provide critical business management and support including non-clinical operations, and we sell products used by dental laboratories who manufacture or customize a variety of products used by licensed dentists to provide oral health care. We sell our Consumer Products online through our corporate website and large e-commerce websites. Our clear aligners are sold under the Invisalign brand name. Our Invisalign system is intended mainly for the treatment of malocclusions and is designed to help dental professionals achieve the clinical outcomes that they expect and the results patients desire. To date, over 12 million people worldwide have been treated with our Invisalign system. We received 510(k) clearance from the United States ( U.S. ) Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to market the Invisalign system in 1998. In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course. Our iTero intraoral scanner is used by dental professionals and/or labs and service providers for restorative and orthodontic digital procedures as well as Invisalign case submissions. To date, over 68,000 iTero scanners have been sold. We received 510(k) clearance in the U.S. for the caries detection feature of the iTero Element 5D in 2020. Our Systems and Services products, which includes our iTero intraoral scanners, are primarily sold through our direct sales force and through sales agents and distributors in certain countries and directly to DSOs. Our exocad CAD/CAM software products provide restorative dentistry, implantology, guided surgery, and smile design to dental labs and dental practices through fully integrated workflows, paving the way for new, cross-disciplinary dentistry in labs and at chairside. There are over 200 exocad strategic distribution partners and over 47,000 software licenses installed worldwide. Clear Aligner Segment Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment Malocclusion is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions, affecting approximately 60% to 75% of the global population. Annually, approximately 21 million people globally elect treatment by orthodontists. Today, most orthodontic patients continue to have their malocclusions treated with the use of traditional methods such as metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, augmented with elastics, metal expanders, headgear or functional appliances, and other ancillary devices as needed. Upon completion of the treatment, the dental professional may recommend the patient use a retainer appliance. Of the 21 million cases started, we estimate that approximately 90% or 19 million could be treated using our Invisalign system. In addition, globally approximately 500 million people with malocclusion could benefit from straightening their teeth. This represents a significant opportunity for us as we expand the market for orthodontics by training more doctors, including GPs as well as orthodontists, educating more consumers about the benefits of straighter teeth using the Invisalign system and connecting consumers with an Invisalign-trained doctor of their choice. The Invisalign system The Invisalign system is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a proprietary computer-simulated virtual treatment plan and a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear polymer removable aligners. The Invisalign system offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and access to proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases: 4 Diagnosis and transmission of treatment data . An Invisalign trained dental professional prepares an online prescription form on our Invisalign Doctor Site and submits the patient's records, which include a digital intraoral scan or a polyvinyl-siloxane ( PVS ) impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professional s election, x-rays of the patient s dentition. Intraoral digital scans may be submitted through Align s iTero scanner or certain third-party scanners capable of accurately interfacing with our systems and processes. Globally, more than 85% of Invisalign system case submissions are now submitted via digital scan, increasing the accuracy of treatments, reducing the time from prescription submission to patient receipt, and decreasing the carbon footprint resulting from the shipment of the materials used to form PVS impressions to the doctors and shipping those PVS impressions back to us. Additionally, it is during this stage that exocad s CAD/CAM software platform can be used to identify, assess and assist doctors and dental labs to collaborate on any needed ortho-restorative treatment options through comprehensive interdisciplinary workflows. Computer-simulated treatment plan . Using the digital scans or PVS impressions, certain doctor preferences and digital data provided, we generate a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan, called a ClinCheck treatment plan using proprietary software we have developed through significant, ongoing investments over more than 20 years. A patient s ClinCheck treatment plan simulates desired tooth movement in stages and details the timing and placement of any features or attachments to be used during treatment. Attachments are tooth-colored buttons that are sometimes used to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to affect the desired movement(s). Review and approval of the treatment plan by an Invisalign trained doctor. The patient s ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via Align s Invisalign Doctor Site, enabling the dental professional to evaluate projected tooth movement from initial position to final position and compare multiple treatment plan options. By reviewing, modifying as needed and approving the treatment plan, the dental professional retains control of the patient s treatment. Manufacture of custom aligners. Following the dental professional s approval of a ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation as input for the next stage in which we use stereolithography technology (a form of 3D printing technology) to construct a series of molds depicting the future position of the patient s teeth. Each mold is a replica of the patient s teeth at each stage of the simulated course of treatment. From these molds, aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold. Aligners are thin, clear polymer, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series designed to correspond to each stage of the patient's ClinCheck treatment plan. Shipment to the dental professional and patient aligner wear. Once manufactured, all the aligners for a patient's doctor-approved treatment plan are typically shipped directly to the dental professional, who then dispenses them to the patient at regular check-up intervals. Aligners are generally worn for a short period of time corresponding to the stages of the patient s approved ClinCheck treatment plan and their doctor s discretion. The patient replaces the aligners with the next pair in the series when prescribed, advancing tooth movement through each stage. At various points in each patient s treatment, their doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per the doctor s original prescription and the approved ClinCheck treatment plan. Additionally, for patients treated using many of our Invisalign system treatments, doctors have the option to adjust treatment plans to achieve desired results by ordering additional clear aligners in accordance with pre-defined terms. Clear Aligner Products We offer our Invisalign system in a variety of treatment packages designed to correspond with the case-by-case treatment needs of our doctors and their patients. The table below provides a general description of the categories of treatment products we offer in various regions as they typically correspond to the severity of malocclusion and length of anticipated treatment. 5 Malocclusion Very Mild Moderate Severe Product Invisalign Express Package Invisalign Lite Package Invisalign Go Limited Movement (GP) Invisalign Moderate Packages ( Invisalign Go Plus) Invisalign Comprehensive Packages Treatment Stages* 7 14 20 20-26 As many as required Clinical Scope Relapse and minor movement, anterior esthetic alignment Class I, mild crowding/spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Class I, no anterior / posterior correction, mild to moderate crowding, spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Tooth movement from 2nd premolar to 2nd premolar (5x5) Class I, mild Class II, mild to moderate crowding/spacing, mild anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, pre-restorative, (Go Plus tooth movement from 1 st molar to 1 st molar (6X6)) Class I, II, III, moderate to severe crowding/spacing, anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, extractions, complex pre-restorative * The number of stages can vary by product and region. Most of our Invisalign system treatment plans described above provide dental professionals with the option to order additional aligners if the patient's treatment deviates from the original treatment plan. The number and timing of additional aligner orders are subject to certain requirements noted in our terms and conditions. Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Comprehensive Packages . The Invisalign Comprehensive Package is used to treat adults and teens over a wide spectrum of mild to severe malocclusion and contains a broad variety of Invisalign features to address the desired treatment goals. It also addresses the frequently complex orthodontic needs of teenage or younger patients with advanced features such as mandibular advancement, compliance indicators and compensation for tooth eruption. These packages include Invisalign Comprehensive, Invisalign First Phase 1 and Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2. Invisalign First Phase 1 and Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Packages . Invisalign First Phase 1 Package is designed specifically for younger patients generally between the ages of seven and ten years, who frequently have a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth. Invisalign First Phase 1 treatment provides early interceptive orthodontic treatment, traditionally done through arch expansion, or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted. Invisalign First Phase 1 clear aligners are designed specifically to address a wide range of younger patients' malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition and predictable dental arch expansion. Our Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Package is complementary to Invisalign First Phase 1 and is generally consistent with our Invisalign Comprehensive Package. After a patient completes Invisalign First Phase 1, doctors have the option to purchase a Comprehensive Phase 2 Package for that same patient. Non-Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Non-comprehensive Packages. We offer a variety of lower priced treatment packages for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive relapse cases, or straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments, such as veneers. These treatment packages include Invisalign Express, Lite, Go, Go Plus and Moderate. These packages may be offered in select countries and/or may differ from region to region. Invisalign Go Packages. We also offer in various markets Invisalign Go and Invisalign Go Plus, streamlined Non-Comprehensive packages designed for GPs to more easily identify and treat patients with mild malocclusion. The Invisalign Go and Invisalign Go Plus packages include case assessment support, simplified ClinCheck treatment plans and a progress assessment feature for case monitoring. Feature Enhancement / New Products Invisalign G8 with SmartForce Activation. Broadly released in early 2021, Invisalign G8 with SmartForce Aligner Activation is a clear aligner biomechanical innovation designed to optimize tooth movements and further improve predictability for frequently treated crowding, crossbite, and deep bite cases through the targeted application of force to teeth through surface contours on the aligners that help control the location, direction and intensity of tooth movement. 6 New Invisalign Innovations in Treatment Planning for Align Digital Platform. Released in early 2022, the new Invisalign system innovations as a part of the Align digital platform is a combination of software, systems and services designed to provide a seamless experience and workflow that integrates and connects all users doctors, labs, patients and consumers. These new innovations include ClinCheck Live Update for 3D controls, the Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Personalized Plan and Invisalign Smile Architect. Non-Case Products: Clear Aligner non-case products include retention products, Invisalign training, adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment and ancillary Consumer Products and other oral health products available in certain e-commerce channels in the U.S. Retention . We offer up to four sets of custom clear aligners called Vivera retainers made with proprietary material strong enough to maintain tooth position and correct minor relapse, if necessary, as well as Invisalign retainers. Retainers are generally available for doctors to offer to any of their patients, whether they use the Invisalign system or other products, including wires and brackets. In select markets, we also offer single set retainers. Further, in the third quarter of 2021, we announced a multi-year supply and distribution agreement with Ultradent Products to allow Invisalign trained doctors to exclusively offer a professional whitening system using Ultradent s Opalescence PF whitening system with Vivera retainers. We also offer in the U.S., a Doctor Subscription Program which is a monthly subscription program based on the doctor s monthly need for retention or limited treatment. The program allows doctors the flexibility to order both touch-up or retention aligners within their subscribed tier and is designed for a segment of experienced Invisalign doctors who are currently not regularly using our retainers or low-stage aligners. SmartTrack Aligner Material: SmartTrack clear aligner material is a patented, custom-engineered Invisalign clear aligner material that delivers gentle, more constant force considered ideal for orthodontic tooth movements. Conventional aligner materials relax and lose a substantial percent of the force applied in the initial days of wear. SmartTrack material maintains more constant force over time. The flexible SmartTrack material also more precisely conforms to tooth morphology, attachments and interproximal spaces to improve control of tooth movement throughout treatment. Systems and Services Segment Intraoral scanning is a rapidly evolving technology that is having a substantial impact on the practice of dentistry. By enabling the dental practitioner to create a 3D image of a patient's teeth (digital scan) using a handheld intraoral scanner, digital scanning is faster, more efficient, precise and comfortable for patients. Beginning patient care with the early usage of our iTero intraoral scanners and combining the results with digital workflows designed to assist doctors and patients visualize and evaluate various treatment options with detailed imagery and CAD/CAM solutions is helping patients decide to undergo treatment and improve treatments, outcomes and satisfaction. The accuracy of digitally scanned models substantially reduces the rate of restoration "remakes," meaning patients are recalled less often and the appointment time for the restoration is shorter because of fewer adjustments, increasing overall patient satisfaction. Digital models also reduce the carbon footprint associated with the shipping of the materials used to create PVS impressions, the shipping of those impressions and their disposal. Moreover, the digital model file can be used for various procedures and services including fabrication of physical dental models for use by labs to create restorative units such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implant abutments; digital records storage; aid to caries detection; orthodontic diagnosis; orthodontic retainers and appliances; and Invisalign digital impression submission. iTero Scanner . The iTero Element portfolio of intraoral scanners includes the iTero Element 2, the iTero Element Flex, iTero Element 5D Imaging System and iTero Element Plus Series which are each available in select regions and countries. These products build on the existing high precision, full-color imaging and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio and are available with software options for orthodontic and restorative procedures. The iTero scanner is interoperable with our Invisalign treatment such that a full arch or full mouth digital scan can be submitted as part of the Invisalign system case submission process. Our iTero Element 5D imaging system is the first integrated dental imaging system that simultaneously records 3D, intraoral color camera images and near imaging ( NIRI ) technology and enables comparison over time using the iTero TimeLapse technology. NIRI technology, included in our iTero Element 5D and 5D Plus Imaging Systems, aids in detection and monitoring of interproximal caries lesions above the gingiva without using harmful radiation. The iTero Element 5D Imaging System is available in the U.S., Canada, China, and the majority of EMEA and select APAC and LATAM countries 7 and is pending regulatory approval in others. The iTero Element Plus Series of intraoral scanners and imaging systems was introduced in the first quarter of 2021 and offers restorative and orthodontic digital workflows that include enhanced visualization for optimized patient experience, including a fully integrated 3D intraoral camera in certain models,; seamless scanning with reduced processing time, artificial intelligence-based features, and, in certain models, NIRI technology. Services and Ancillary Products. Our services include subscription software, disposables, rentals, and pay per scan as well as exocad s CAD/CAM software solutions that integrate workflows to dental labs and dental practices. Restorative software for iTero scanners and imaging systems. Our Restorative software is designed for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists and oral surgeons and includes restorative workflows providing the ability to send digital impressions to the lab of their choice and communicate seamlessly with external treatment planning, custom implant abutment, chairside milling and laboratory CAD/CAM systems such as through our exocad Connector. iTero intraoral scans can enhance the accuracy and precision of a doctor s downstream restorative process. Orthodontic software for iTero scanners and imaging systems. Our iTero software is designed for orthodontists for digital records storage, orthodontic diagnosis, and for the fabrication of printed models and retainers. CAD/CAM Services. Our exocad CAD/CAM software platform addresses restorative needs in an end-to-end digital platform workflow to facilitate ortho-restorative and comprehensive dentistry. The platform provides doctors and dental labs with digital clinical solutions that aid general dentists and dental labs in planning and delivering restorative dental treatments, adding restorative functionality to our comprehensive digital platform to deliver digital ortho-restorative workflows and interdisciplinary dentistry. Our exocad software is licensed and sold separately. Ancillary Products . We sell disposable sleeves for the wand and other ancillary products for the iTero scanner. iTero Models and Dies. An accurate physical model and dies are manufactured based on the digital scan and sent to the laboratory of the dentist s choice for completion of the needed restoration. The laboratory also has the option to export the digital file for immediate production of coping and full-contour restorations on their laboratory CAD/CAM systems. The laboratory then completes the ceramic buildup or staining and glazing and delivers the end result - a precisely fitting restoration. Third-Party Scanners and Digital scans . We accept case submissions for our clear aligner products in two ways: (1) PVS impressions of patients teeth or (2) intraoral scans of their teeth. With respect to intraoral