Item 1. Business 3 Information about our Executive Officers 20 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 35 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II 37 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 38 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Item 9B. Other Information 89 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 89 PART III 89 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11. Executive Compensation 90 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 90 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 90 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 90 PART IV 92 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 92 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 95 Signatures 96 Invisalign, Align, the Invisalign logo, ClinCheck, Invisalign Assist, Invisalign Teen, Invisalign First, Invisalign Go, the Invisalign sonic logo, Vivera, SmartForce, SmartTrack, SmartStage, SmileView, iTero, iTero Element, iTero Lumina, exocad, Align Digital Platform, Smile Architect, iTero exocad Connector and exocad Dental CAD, among others, are trademarks and/or service marks of Align Technology, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies and may be registered in the United States and/or other countries. 2 In addition to historical information, this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our expectations and intentions regarding our strategic objectives and the means to achieve them, our beliefs and expectations regarding macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, rising interest rates, market volatility, weakness in general economic conditions and recessions and the impact of efforts by central banks and federal, state and local governments to combat inflation and recession, our expectations and beliefs regarding customer and consumer purchasing behavior and changes in consumer spending habits, our expectations regarding product mix and product adoption, our expectations regarding competition and our ability to compete in our target markets, our expectations regarding the sales growth of our intraoral scanners, clear aligners and other products, our expectations regarding the impact of the military conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine and our operations and assets in Israel and Russia, our marketing and efforts to build our brand awareness, our estimates regarding the size and opportunities of the markets we are targeting along with our expectations for growth in those markets, our beliefs regarding the impact of technological innovation in general, and in our solutions and products in particular, on target markets and patient care, our beliefs regarding digital dentistry and its potential to impact our business, our intentions regarding expanding our business, including its impact on our operational flexibility and responsiveness to customer demand, our beliefs regarding the importance of our manufacturing operations on our success, our beliefs regarding the need for and benefits of our technological development on Invisalign treatment, the areas of development in which we focus our efforts, and the advantages of our intellectual property portfolio, our beliefs regarding our business strategy and growth drivers, our expectations regarding the utilization rates for our products, including the impact of marketing on those rates and causes for periodic fluctuations of the rates, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the productivity impact sales representatives will have on our sales and the impact of specialization of those representatives in sales channels, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our international markets and their growth, our expectations regarding staying in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States and internationally, our beliefs regarding our culture and commitment and its impact on our financial and operational performance and its importance to our future success, our expectations for future investments in and benefits from sales and marketing activities, our preparedness and our customers preparedness to react to changing circumstances and demand, our expectations for our expenses and capital obligations and expenditures in particular, our intentions to control spending and for investments, our intentions regarding the investment of our international earnings from operations, our belief regarding the sufficiency of our cash and investment balances and borrowing capacity, our judgments regarding the estimates used in our revenue recognition and assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, our expectations regarding our tax positions and the judgements we make related to our tax obligations, our predicted level of operating expenses and gross margins and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. PART I Business. Our Company Align Technology, Inc. ( We , Our , Align ) is a global medical device company primarily engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of Invisalign clear aligners for the treatment of malocclusions, or the misalignment of teeth, by orthodontists and general dental practitioners ( GPs ), Vivera TM retainers for retention, iTero TM intraoral scanners and services for dentistry, and exocad TM computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing ( CAD/CAM ) software for dental laboratories and dental practitioners. Our vision and strategy is to revolutionize orthodontic and restorative dentistry through digital treatment planning and implementation using our Align Digital Platform TM , an integrated suite of proprietary technologies and services designed to deliver a seamless, end-to-end solution for patients, consumers, orthodontists, GPs and lab partners. We strive to achieve our vision and strategy through key objectives made possible with the proprietary technologies and services of the Align Digital Platform to establish: clear aligners as the principal solution for the treatment of malocclusions with the Invisalign system as the treatment solution of choice by orthodontists, GPs and patients globally, our intraoral scanners as the preferred scanning technology for digital dental scans and our exocad CAD/CAM software as the dental restorative solution of choice for dental labs. Align s corporate headquarters are located at 410 North Scottsdale Road, Suite 1300, Tempe, Arizona 85288. Our telephone number is 602-742-2000. Our internet address is www.aligntech.com. Our Americas regional headquarters is located 3 in Raleigh, North Carolina, U.S.A.; our European, Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) regional headquarters is located in Rotkreuz, Switzerland; and our Asia Pacific ( APAC ) regional headquarters is located in Singapore. We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner and (2) Imaging Systems and CAD/CAM Services ( Systems and Services ). For the year ended December 31, 2023, Clear Aligner net revenues represented approximately 83% of worldwide net revenues, while Systems and Services net revenues represented the remaining 17%. We sell the majority of our products directly through a dedicated and specialized sales force to our customers: orthodontists, GPs, including prosthodontists, periodontists, oral surgeons and dental laboratories. We also sell through sales agents and distributors in certain countries. In addition, we sell directly to Dental Support Organizations ( DSOs ) who contract with dental practices to provide critical business management and support including non-clinical operations. We also sell our products to dental laboratories who use our products to manufacture or customize their own products for licensed dentists. We also market and sell doctor and consumer accessory products complementary to our doctor-prescribed principal products under the Invisalign and other brands, including retainers, dental supplies, clear aligner cases (clamshells), teeth whitening products and cleaning solutions (collectively Invisalign Accessory Products ). Depending on the product, our Invisalign Accessory Products are sold through a variety of channels, including online through large e-commerce websites, our doctor portal and in-store through large retailers and pharmacy stores. Our clear aligners are sold under the Invisalign brand name. Our Invisalign system is intended mainly for the treatment of malocclusions and is designed to help dental professionals achieve the clinical outcomes they expect and the results patients desire. To date, approximately 17 million people worldwide have been treated with the Invisalign system. In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course. Our iTero intraoral scanner is used by dental professionals and/or labs and service providers for restorative and orthodontic digital procedures as well as Invisalign case submissions. Our exocad CAD/CAM software products provide restorative dentistry, implantology, guided surgery, and smile design to dental labs and dental practices through fully integrated workflows, with the goal to provide cross-disciplinary dentistry in labs and at chairside. Our Products, Services and Technologies Align Digital Platform TM We strive to be at the forefront of innovation in digital orthodontics and dentistry, helping doctors transform their practices using digital tools and technology to deliver great treatment experiences and outcomes to people worldwide. The Align Digital Platform is the foundation of our goal to revolutionize the practice of dentistry, delivering interconnected, interdisciplinary workflows and treatment solutions designed to improve all aspects of treatment, from initial consultations to final smiles with our doctor-centered treatment model. The Align Digital Platform is an end-to-end digital platform that combines software, systems and services to seamlessly integrate and connect those critical to successful treatment outcomes doctors, labs, patients, and consumers. At the center of the Align Digital Platform are Invisalign clear aligners, iTero intraoral scanners, and exocad CAD/CAM software. The Align Digital Platform utilizes the Align TM Digital Workflow to enable an end-to-end treatment experience that includes the following key components: 4 Connect: The initial stage of the platform drives consumer demand and connects potential patients to our websites and the websites of Invisalign providers. Some of the tools that support this stage are Invisalign.com, the Invisalign SmileView TM tool, My Invisalign app, Doctor Locator, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Doctor Estimate and Invisalign Virtual Appointment. Scan: During this stage, patient data is captured through intraoral scanning. Doctors and their staffs use intraoral scanning tools designed to support diagnosis of a patient s oral conditions and health and support doctors to develop appropriate treatment pathways. Visualization of their potential smiles helps patients understand the benefits of treatment and increase patient conversion. The tools that support this stage, include, iTero scanners and imaging systems, Invisalign Outcome Simulator Pro, Invisalign Photo Uploader, Invisalign SmileView TM tool, iTero Element TM 5D auto upload feature, iTero TM Scan Report and iTero exocad Connector TM . Diagnose : Doctors can access and use tools that support diagnosis of a patient s oral health and develop an appropriate treatment pathway. The Align Digital Platform facilitates the doctor-patient conversation, through education regarding clinical needs and setting expectations. Some of the tools that support this stage include Align TM Oral Health Suite, iTero TM NIRI technology (Near Infra-Red Imaging), iTero TM TimeLapse technology and iTero Occlusogram. Plan: Doctors digitally visualize and plan orthodontic and restorative treatments. Orthodontists and GPs can use our products to design, build and share their vision for treatment planning and agree on a customized plan with their patients to reach the desired outcomes. Orthodontists and GPs can use our products to design, build and share their vision for treatment planning and agree on a customized plan with their patients to reach desired outcomes. Some of the tools that support this stage are ClinCheck Pro 6.0, ClinCheck In-Face Visualization, ClinCheck Live Update, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Personalized Plan, CBCT integration for ClinCheck software, Invisalign Smile Architect TM and exocad Dental CAD TM software. Treat: During this stage, doctors treat their patients with our Invisalign clear aligners and may offer teeth whitening using the Invisalign TM Professional Whitening System. Monitor: Doctors can remotely track their patients treatment between visits, and orthodontists and GPs can more easily track treatment progress and communicate issues, results and recommendations to their patients. Some of the tools that support this stage include Invisalign Virtual Care app, My Invisalign TM app, Invisalign Doctor Site, Invisalign Practice App, Invisalign Progress Assessment and iTero TM scanners. Retain: Following completion of their orthodontic treatment, patients can retain the final position of their teeth using Vivera TM retainers. As we further evolve the treatment planning experience for doctors through new technological research and development innovations, we expect to introduce new technologies, features and functionality that improve personalization of treatment planning, predictability, clinical preferences, and 2D/3D imaging, including digital tools for faster and more accurate final tooth positions. In 2023, we launched several new products and technologies that further enhance the Align Digital Platform, including the enhanced precision wings for Invisalign treatment with mandibular advancement, the Invisalign Palatal Expander system, the SmartForce attachment-free clear aligner activation feature, the Plan Editor in ClinCheck treatment planning software, the Align Oral Health Suite, iTero-exocad Connector , exoplan 3.1 Rijeka, ChairsideCAD 3.1 Rijeka, PartialCAD 3.1 Rijeka, and Invisalign Lens. Clear Aligner Segment Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment Malocclusion is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions in the world, affecting approximately 60% to 75% of the global population. We estimate that there are approximately 600 million people globally with malocclusion who could benefit from straightening their teeth. However, most people afflicted by malocclusion do not seek orthodontic treatment for various reasons, including negative perceptions of metal braces, affordability of treatment, and accessibility to doctors. Annually, only approximately 22 million people globally elect treatment by orthodontists. Today, most orthodontic patients continue to have their malocclusions treated with the use of traditional corrective methods such as metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, augmented with elastics, metal expanders, headgear or functional appliances, and other ancillary 5 devices as needed. Upon completion of a patient s treatment, their dental professional may recommend the patient use a retainer appliance to preserve the benefits of their treatment. Of the 22 million cases started each year, we estimate that almost all can be treated using our Invisalign system, yet our share of the 22 million case starts through orthodontists is approximately 10% globally. This represents a significant growth opportunity for us to increase our share of the existing market of orthodontic case starts, especially among teens, and expand the market for digital orthodontics, especially among adults. By training more doctors, including GPs as well as orthodontists, increasing utilization of existing doctors using our products, educating more consumers about the benefits of straighter teeth using the Invisalign system and connecting consumers with an Invisalign-trained doctor of their choice, we are helping drive adoption of digital orthodontics and restorative dentistry globally. The Invisalign System The Invisalign system is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a proprietary computer-simulated virtual treatment plan and a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear polymer removable aligners. We received 510(k) clearance from the United States ( U.S. ) Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to market the Invisalign system in 1998. The Invisalign system offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and access to proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases: Diagnosis and transmission of treatment data . As part of the Align Digital Workflow, Align has developed solutions to enable doctor diagnosis and drive patient conversion providing tools to support diagnosis of a patients oral health and support to identify an appropriate treatment pathway, facilitating the doctor-patient conversation, education and clinical needs and expectations. An Invisalign trained dental professional prepares an online prescription form on our Invisalign Doctor Site and securely submits the patient's records, which include a digital intraoral scan or a polyvinyl-siloxane ( PVS ) impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professional s election, x-rays of the patient s dentition. Intraoral digital scans may be submitted through Align s iTero scanner or certain third-party scanners capable of accurately interfacing with our systems and processes. Globally, more than 91% of Invisalign system prescription orders are now submitted via digital scan, increasing the accuracy of treatment plans, reducing the time from when the doctor submits the prescription to the time the patient receives the clear aligners, and helping to decrease the carbon footprint resulting from elimination of the initial or upfront shipment of the patient s PVS impressions to the doctors and shipping those PVS impressions back to us. Computer-simulated treatment plan . Our ClinCheck treatment planning software is the cornerstone of the Align Digital Platform. ClinCheck Pro treatment planning software uses proprietary algorithms based on the insights from data from our more than 17 million patients treated worldwide. Using the digital scans or PVS impressions, certain doctor preferences and digital data provided, we generate a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan, called a ClinCheck treatment plan, using proprietary software developed through significant, ongoing research and development investments spanning more than two decades. A patient s ClinCheck treatment plan simulates desired tooth movement in stages and details the timing and placement of any features or attachments to be used during treatment. Attachments are tooth-colored shapes that are sometimes used to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to affect the desired movement(s). Review and approval of the treatment plan by an Invisalign trained doctor. The patient s ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via Align s Invisalign Doctor Site, enabling the dental professional to evaluate projected tooth movement from initial to final position and compare multiple treatment plan options. By reviewing, modifying as needed and approving the treatment plan, the dental professional retains control of the patient s treatment. Manufacture of custom clear aligners. Following the dental professional s approval of a ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation as input in which we use stereolithography technology (a form of 3D printing technology) to construct a series of molds. Each mold is a replica of the patient s teeth at each stage of the simulated course of treatment. From these molds, clear aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold. Clear aligners are thin, clear polymer, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series designed to correspond to each stage of the patient's ClinCheck treatment plan. Shipment to the dental professional and patient clear aligner wear. Once manufactured, all the clear aligners for a patient's doctor-approved treatment plan are typically shipped directly to the dental professional. The majority of doctors then dispense all of the clear aligners to the patient. Clear aligners are generally worn for one week or for a short period of time corresponding to the stages of the patient s approved ClinCheck treatment plan and their doctor s discretion. The patient replaces their current set of clear aligners with the next pair in the series when prescribed, advancing tooth movement through each stage. At various points in each patient s treatment, their doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per the doctor s original prescription and the approved ClinCheck treatment plan. Additionally, for patients treated using many of our Invisalign system products, doctors have the option to order additional clear aligners for refinements. 6 Clear Aligner Products We offer our Invisalign system in a variety of treatment packages designed to correspond with the case-by-case treatment needs of our doctors and their patients and also designed on nonclinical needs. The table below provides a general description of the categories of Invisalign system products offered in various regions as they typically correspond to the severity of malocclusion and length of anticipated treatment. Malocclusion Very Mild Moderate Severe Product Invisalign Express Package Invisalign Lite Package Invisalign Go Limited Movement (GP) Invisalign Moderate Packages ( Invisalign Go Plus) Invisalign Comprehensive Packages Treatment Stages* 7 14 20 20-26 As many as required Clinical Scope Relapse and minor movement, anterior esthetic alignment Class I, mild crowding/spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Class I, no anterior / posterior correction, mild to moderate crowding, spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Tooth movement from 2nd premolar to 2nd premolar (5x5) Class I, mild Class II, mild to moderate crowding/spacing, mild anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, pre-restorative, (Go Plus tooth movement from 1st molar to 1st molar (6X6)) Class I, II, III, moderate to severe crowding/spacing, anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, extractions, complex pre-restorative * The number of stages can vary by product and region. Most of our Invisalign system products described above provide dental professionals with the option to order additional clear aligners if the patient's treatment deviates from the original treatment plan. The number and timing of additional clear aligner orders are subject to certain requirements noted in our terms and conditions. Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Comprehensive Packages . The Invisalign Comprehensive Package is used to treat adults and teens over a wide spectrum of mild to severe malocclusion and contains a broad variety of features to address the desired treatment goals. It also addresses the frequently complex orthodontic needs of teenage or younger patients with advanced features such as mandibular advancement, compliance indicators and compensation for tooth eruption. These packages include Invisalign Comprehensive, Invisalign First TM Phase 1 and Invisalign First TM Comprehensive Phase 2. Invisalign First Phase 1 and Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Packages . Invisalign First Phase 1 Package is designed specifically for younger patients generally between the ages of six and ten years, who frequently have a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth. Invisalign First Phase 1 treatment provides early interceptive orthodontic treatment, traditionally done through arch expansion, or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted. Invisalign First Phase 1 clear aligners are designed specifically to address a wide range of younger patients' malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition and predictable dental arch expansion. Our Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Package complements Invisalign First Phase 1 and is generally consistent with our Invisalign Comprehensive Package. After a patient completes Invisalign First Phase 1, doctors have the option to purchase a Comprehensive Phase 2 Package for that same patient. In the first quarter of 2023, we launched the Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product. The 3in3 configuration offers doctors Invisalign Comprehensive treatment with a three-year treatment expiration date and three additional clear aligners included prior to the treatment expiration date, instead of a five-year treatment expiration date with unlimited additional clear aligner sets prior to the treatment end date. Invisalign Comprehensive 3in3 product is available in North America and in certain markets in EMEA and APAC, most recently launching in China, Korea, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Non-Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Non-comprehensive Packages. We offer a variety of lower priced treatment packages for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive relapse cases, or teeth straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments, such as veneers. These treatment packages include Invisalign Express, Invisalign Lite, and Invisalign Moderate. These packages may be offered in select countries and/or may differ from region to region. 7 Invisalign Doctor Subscription Program ( DSP ) is our monthly subscription-based clear aligner program which includes retainers and low-stage touch-up clear aligner treatment. As of September 31, 2023, Invisalign DSP touch-up cases have been reclassified to non-comprehensive cases and are now reflected in our reported case volumes and metrics. Prior to this quarter, they were reported in the non-case category. DSP is currently available in the U.S., Canada, Iberia, Nordics and, most recently in the UK. Invisalign Go Packages. In various markets we also offer Invisalign Go TM , Invisalign Go TM Express and Invisalign Go Plus, streamlined Non-Comprehensive packages designed for GPs to more easily identify and treat patients with mild malocclusion. The Invisalign Go and Invisalign Go Plus packages include case assessment support, simplified ClinCheck treatment plans and a progress assessment feature for case monitoring. Non-Case Products: Clear aligner non-case products include retention products, Invisalign training, adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment, ancillary Invisalign Accessory Products and other oral health products available in certain e-commerce and retail channels in the U.S. Retention . We offer up to four sets of custom clear aligners called Vivera retainers made with proprietary material strong enough to maintain tooth position and correct minor relapse, if necessary, as well as Invisalign retainers. Retainers are generally available for doctors to offer to any of their patients, whether they use the Invisalign system or other products, including wires and brackets. In select markets, we also offer single set retainers. Invisalign Professional Whitening System. Additionally, we offer a professional whitening system using Ultradent s Opalescence PF whitening system with Vivera retainers. New Products/Feature Enhancement Invisalign Palatal Expander. In December 2023, we received 510(k) clearance in the U.S. for the Invisalign Palatal Expanders.The Invisalign Palatal Expander System is intended for use in rapid expansion and subsequent holding of skeletal and/or dental narrow maxilla (upper jaw) with primary, mixed, or permanent dentition during patient treatment. It provides an alternative to traditional palatal expanders that require the daily manual turning of a screw in the device in the mouth to achieve expansion. The Invisalign Palatal Expander is our first direct 3D printed orthodontic device. Combined with Invis