Item 1. Business 3 Executive Officers of the Registrant 12 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II 28 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 87 Item 9B. Other Information 87 PART III 87 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 88 PART IV 89 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 89 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Signatures 92 Invisalign, Align, the Invisalign logo, ClinCheck, Made to Move, Invisalign Assist, Invisalign Teen, Invisalign Go, Vivera, SmartForce, SmartTrack, SmartStage, SmileView, iTero, iTero Element, Orthocad, iCast and iRecord, among others, are trademarks and/or service marks of Align Technology, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies and may be registered in the United States and/or other countries. 2 In addition to historical information, this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include, among other things, our estimates concerning the number of people who can benefit from our products, expectations regarding the anticipated impact of our new products and product enhancements will have on the future of dentistry, doctor utilization and our market share, our beliefs regarding our technology development and the advantages of our intellectual property portfolio, our beliefs concerning our compliance with domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including data protection and security, our expectations regarding geographic and product mix and product adoption, our expectations for domestic and international growth, our expectations regarding the existence and impact of seasonality, our expectations regarding the sales growth of our iTero scanners, their utilization and the potential growth opportunities iTero scanners represent to our overall business, our beliefs concerning the manufacturing capabilities and expectations regarding the financial and strategic benefits of establishing regional order acquisition, treatment planning and manufacturing facilities, our expectations for competition, our expectations concerning the impact of the Novel Coronavirus on our sales and operating results, our intention to hire more sales representatives and their expected impact on our sales, our expectations regarding the continued expansion of our domestic and international markets including related infrastructure and staffing, our expectations related to our corporate structure reorganization, the level of our operating expenses, capital expenditures and gross margins, our intentions regarding earnings from international operations, our beliefs concerning our investment portfolio and the funding of our operations and other factors beyond our control, as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition and prospects and business strategies. These statements may contain words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, or other words indicating future results. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in particular, the risks discussed below in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Align Technology, Inc. ( We , Our , Align ) is a global medical device company engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of Invisalign clear aligners and iTero intraoral scanners and services for orthodontics, and restorative and aesthetic dentistry. Align s products are intended primarily for the treatment of malocclusion or the misalignment of teeth and are designed to help dental professionals achieve the clinical outcomes that they expect. Align Technology was founded in March 1997 and incorporated in Delaware in April 1997. Our corporate headquarters is located at 2820 Orchard Parkway, San Jose, California, U.S.A., 95134, and our telephone number is 408-470-1000. Our internet address is www.aligntech.com. Our Americas regional headquarters is located in Raleigh, North Carolina, U.S.A.; our European, Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) regional headquarters is located in Rotkreuz, Switzerland, which moved from Amsterdam, the Netherlands in January 2020; and our Asia Pacific ("APAC") regional headquarters is located in Singapore. We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner and (2) Scanners and Services ("Scanner"). For the year ended December 31, 2019, Clear Aligner net revenues represented approximately 84% of worldwide net revenues, while Scanner net revenues represented the remaining 16% of worldwide net revenues. We sell the majority of our products directly to our customers: orthodontists and general practitioner dentists ("GPs"), as well as to restorative and aesthetic dentists, including prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons. We also sell through sales agents and distributors in certain countries. In addition, we sell directly to Dental Support Organizations ("DSOs") who contract with dental practices to provide critical business management and support including non-clinical operations, and we sell directly to dental laboratories who manufacture or customize a variety of products used by licensed dentists to provide oral health care. We received 510(k) clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) to market the Invisalign System in 1998. The Invisalign System is regulated by the FDA as a Class II medical device. In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course. The Invisalign System is sold primarily through a direct sales force in North America, APAC, Europe, EMEA and Latin America ("LATAM"). To date, over 8 million people worldwide have been treated with our Invisalign System. Our iTero scanner is used by dental professionals and/or labs and service providers for restorative and orthodontic digital procedures as well as Invisalign case submission. We received 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market iTero software for expanded indications in 2013. Scanners and computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing ("CAD/CAM") services are primarily 3 sold through our direct sales force and through sales agents and distributors in certain countries. In addition, we sell iTero scanners and CAD/CAM services directly to DSOs. Clear Aligner Segment Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment Malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth, is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions, affecting billions of people, or approximately 60% to 75% of the global population. Annually, approximately 12 million people in major developed countries elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide. Most orthodontic patients are treated with the use of traditional methods such as metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, and may be augmented with elastics, metal expanders, headgear or functional appliances, and other ancillary devices as needed. Upon completion of the treatment, the dental professional may, at his or her discretion, have the patient use a retainer appliance. Of the 12 million annual orthodontic cases started, we estimate that approximately 75% or 8.4 million could be treated using our Invisalign clear aligners. In addition, approximately 300 million people with malocclusion could benefit from straightening their teeth. This represents an incremental opportunity for us as we expand the market for orthodontics by educating more consumers about the benefits of straighter teeth using Invisalign clear aligners and connecting them with an Invisalign doctor of their choice. The Invisalign System The Invisalign System is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a proprietary computer-simulated virtual treatment plan and a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear plastic removable aligners. The Invisalign System offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and access to proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases: Orthodontic diagnosis and transmission of treatment data to us . The Invisalign-trained dental professional prepares an online prescription form on our Invisalign Doctor Site and submits the patient's records, which include a digital intraoral scan or a polyvinyl-siloxane ("PVS") impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professional s election, x-rays of the patient s dentition. Intraoral digital scans may be submitted through either Align's iTero scanner or certain third-party scanners capable of accurately interfacing with our systems and processes. See "Third Party Scanners and Digital scans for Invisalign treatment submission." More than 73% of Invisalign case submissions are now submitted via digital scan, increasing the accuracy of treatments, reducing the time from prescription submission to patient receipt, and decreasing the carbon footprint resulting from the shipment of the materials used to form the physical PVS impressions and shipping those PVS impressions to us. Preparation of computer-simulated treatment plan . Using the information and digital data provided, we generate a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan, called a ClinCheck treatment plan using our proprietary software, which is not for sale or license. A patient s ClinCheck treatment plan simulates expected tooth movement in stages and details the timing and placement of any features or attachments to be used during treatment. Attachments are tooth-colored buttons that are sometimes used to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to effect the desired movement(s). Review and approval of the treatment plan by an Invisalign-trained doctor. The patient s ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via the Invisalign Doctor Site which enables the dental professional to project tooth movement from initial position to final position and compare multiple treatment plan options. By reviewing, modifying as needed and approving the treatment plan, the dental professional retains control of the patient's treatment. Manufacture of custom aligners. Upon the dental professional s approval of the ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation, in conjunction with stereolithography technology (a form of 3D printing technology), to construct a series of molds depicting the future position of the patient s teeth. Each mold is a replica of the patient s teeth at each stage of the simulated course of treatment. From these molds, aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold. Aligners are thin, clear plastic, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series to correspond to each stage of the patient's ClinCheck treatment plan. Shipment to the dental professional and patient aligner wear. In most countries, all the aligners for a patient's treatment plan are shipped directly to the dental professional, who then dispenses them to the patient at regular check-up intervals throughout the treatment. Aligners are generally worn for a period of time typically one to two weeks, corresponding to the stages of the patient s approved ClinCheck treatment plan. The patient replaces the aligners with the next pair in the series when prescribed, advancing tooth movement through each stage. At various points in each patient s treatment, their doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per the doctor s original prescription and the approved ClinCheck treatment plan. 4 At the treating doctor s discretion, weekly aligner changes are recommended for all Invisalign treatments except for Invisalign Lite and Express packages and may provide up to 50% shorter treatment time compared with two-week aligner wear. Feature Enhancements We continue to introduce enhanced features across the Invisalign System to improve treatment outcomes or address broader clinical indications. For example, in 2018, we extended the Invisalign product family with Invisalign First clear aligners, designed with features specifically for younger patients with early mixed dentition (with a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth). Invisalign First clear aligners are designed specifically to address a broad range of younger patients' malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition, and predictable dental arch expansion. In 2018, we also introduced enhancements designed to improve dental professional and patient experiences and clinical outcomes including: wing overlap and engagement in deep bite cases with anterior intrusion, new options for mandibular advancement and symmetrical advancement of the left and right side, a new default protocol for incremental advancement, and improvements to support leveling the curve of Spee in deep bite cases. Clear Aligner Products Malocclusion Very Mild Moderate Severe Product Invisalign Express Package Invisalign Lite Package Invisalign Go Limited Movement (GP) Invisalign Moderate Package Invisalign Comprehensive Package Stages 7 14 20 20-26 As many as required Clinical Scope Relapse and minor movement, anterior esthetic alignment Class I, mild crowding/spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Class I, no anterior / posterior correction, mild to moderate crowding, spacing, non-extraction, pre-restorative Tooth movement from 2nd premolar to 2nd premolar (5x5) Class I, mild Class II, mild to moderate crowding/spacing, mild anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, pre-restorative Class I, II, III, moderate to severe crowding/spacing, anterior / posterior and vertical discrepancies, extractions, complex pre-restorative Most of our Invisalign Treatment Plans described above provide dental professionals with the option to order additional aligners if the patient's treatment is not tracking against the original treatment plan. The number of additional aligner orders and timing are subject to certain requirements noted in our terms and conditions. Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Comprehensive . The Invisalign Comprehensive Package is used to treat adults and teens for a full spectrum of mild to severe malocclusion and contains a wide variety of Invisalign features to address the doctor's treatment goals. It also addresses the orthodontic needs of teenage patients, such as Mandibular Advancement, compliance indicators and compensation for tooth eruption. Invisalign First Phase 1 and Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Package . Invisalign First Phase 1 is designed specifically for younger patients generally between the ages of seven and ten years, which is a mixture of primary/baby and permanent teeth. Invisalign First Phase 1 treatment provides early interceptive orthodontic treatment, traditionally done through arch expanders, or partial metal braces, before all permanent teeth have erupted. Invisalign First clear aligners are designed specifically to address a broad range of younger patients' malocclusions, including shorter clinical crowns, management of erupting dentition and predictable dental arch expansion. Our Invisalign First Comprehensive Phase 2 Package is a continuation of the First Phase 1 and is generally consistent with our Invisalign Comprehensive Package. After a patient completes Invisalign First Phase I, doctors have the option to purchase a discounted Comprehensive Phase 2 Package for that same patient. Non-Comprehensive Products - Invisalign Treatment Options: Invisalign Non-comprehensive Products. We offer a variety of lower priced treatment packages for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive relapse cases, or straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments, such as veneers. These packages may be offered in select countries and/or may differ from region to region. 5 Invisalign Go. We also offer Invisalign Go, a streamlined Non-Comprehensive package designed for GPs to more easily identify and treat patients with mild malocclusion. The Invisalign Go package includes case assessment support, a simplified ClinCheck treatment plan and a progress assessment feature for case monitoring. Non-Case Products: Clear Aligner non-case products include retention products, Invisalign training fees and sales of ancillary products, such as cleaning material and adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment. Retention . We offer up to four sets of custom clear aligners called Vivera Retainers made with proprietary material strong enough to maintain tooth position and correct minor relapse, if necessary. Vivera Retainers are available to both Invisalign and non-Invisalign patients. In select markets, we also offer single arch retainers. SmartTrack Aligner Material SmartTrack is a patented, custom-engineered Invisalign clear aligner material that delivers gentle, more constant force considered ideal for orthodontic tooth movements. Conventional aligner materials relax and lose a substantial percent of energy in the initial days of aligner wear, but SmartTrack maintains more constant force over the period of time the patient wears the aligners. The flexible SmartTrack material also more precisely conforms to tooth morphology, attachments and interproximal spaces to improve control of tooth movement throughout treatment. Scanner Segment Intraoral scanning continues to be an evolving technology that we believe will have a substantial impact on the future of dentistry. By enabling the dental practitioner to create a 3D image of a patient's teeth (digital scan) using a handheld intraoral scanner, digital scanning is faster, more efficient, precise and comfortable for patients, compared to the discomfort and subjective nature of taking physical impressions. The accuracy of digitally scanned models substantially reduces the rate of restoration "remakes;" meaning patients are recalled less often and the appointment time for the restoration is shorter because of fewer adjustments, increasing overall patient satisfaction. Digital models also reduce the carbon footprint associated with the shipping of the materials used to create PVS impressions, the shipping of those impressions, and their disposal. Moreover, the digital model file can be used for various procedures and services including fabrication of physical dental models for use by labs to create restorative units such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implant abutments; digital records storage; orthodontic diagnosis; orthodontic retainers and appliances; and Invisalign digital impression submission. iTero Scanner . The iTero Element scanner is available as a single hardware platform with software options for restorative or orthodontic procedures. The expanded portfolio includes the iTero Element 2 and the iTero Element Flex scanners which are each available in select regions and countries. These products build on the existing high precision, full-color imaging and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio while streamlining orthodontic and restorative workflows. We also continue to offer the existing iTero Element scanner in existing markets. The iTero scanner is interoperable with our Invisalign treatment such that a full arch digital scan can be submitted as part of the Invisalign case submission process. In February 2019, we launched the iTero Element 5D Imaging system which provides a new comprehensive approach to clinical applications, workflows and user experience that expands the suite of existing high-precision, full-color imagining and fast scan times of the iTero Element portfolio. In addition to offering all of the features and functionality that doctors have come to expect and rely on with the iTero Element 2 scanner, the iTero Element 5D scanner is the first integrated dental imaging system that simultaneously records 3D, intra-oral color and near-infrared ("NIRI") imaging and enables comparison over time using iTero TimeLapse. NIRI technology of the iTero Element 5D Imaging System aids in detection and monitoring of interproximal caries lesions above the gingiva without using harmful radiation. The iTero Element 5D Imaging System is available in the majority of EMEA and select APAC countries; however, it is pending regulatory approval in the U.S. and LATAM countries. In June 2019, we announced the launch of iTero Element Foundation intraoral scanner with restorative software. The iTero Element Foundation extends our portfolio of intraoral scanners with powerful 3D visualization to better meet the needs of doctors, labs and patients. The iTero Element Foundation is available in North America and Japan and will be available in other select APAC and EMEA countries in 2020. Restorative software for iTero. Our Restorative software is designed for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons which includes restorative workflows providing them with the ability to send digital impressions to the lab of choice and communicate seamlessly with external treatment planning, custom implant abutment, chairside milling, and laboratory CAD/CAM systems. 6 Orthodontic software for iTero. Software designed for orthodontists for digital records storage, orthodontic diagnosis, and for the fabrication of printed models and retainers. CAD/CAM Services and Ancillary Products Ancillary Products . We sell disposable sleeves for the wand and other ancillary products for the iTero scanner. iTero Models and Dies. An accurate physical model and dies are manufactured based on the digital scan and sent to the laboratory of the dentist s choice for completion of the needed restoration. The laboratory also has the option to export the digital file for immediate production of coping and full-contour restorations on their laboratory CAD/CAM systems. The laboratory conducts then completes the ceramic buildup or staining and glazing and delivers the end result - a precisely fitting restoration. iTero prosthetics have a near-zero remake rate. Third Party Scanners and Digital scans for Invisalign treatment submission . We accept case submissions for our clear aligner products in two ways: (1) physical impressions of the patient s teeth or (2) intraoral scan of the patient s teeth. With respect to intraoral scans, we accept scans from iTero scanners and certain third-party scanners that have interoperability relationship with our systems and processes. iTero Applications and Tools Invisalign Outcome Simulator . The Invisalign Outcome Simulator is an exclusive chair-side and cloud-based application for the iTero scanner that allows doctors to help patients visualize how their teeth may look at the end of Invisalign treatment. This is achieved through a dual view layout that shows a prospective patient an image of his/her own current dentition next to his/her simulated final position after Invisalign treatment. Invisalign 3D Assessment tool. The Invisalign Progress Assessment tool provides the ability to compare a patient s new scan with a specific stage of their ClinCheck treatment plan. This allows doctors to visually assess and communicate Invisalign treatment progress with an easy to read, color-coded tooth movement report. TimeLapse. TimeLapse technology allows doctors or practitioners to compare a patient s historic 3D scans to the present-day scan, enabling clinicians to identify and measure orthodontic movement, tooth wear, and gingival recession. This highlights areas of diagnostic interest to dental professionals and helps foster a proactive conversation with the patient regarding potential restorative or orthodontic solutions. Our iTero Element, iTero Element 2, iTero Element Flex and iTero Element 5D scanners include the Invisalign Outcome Simulator, Invisalign 3D Assessment tool and Timelapse as well as the orthodontic software and/or restorative software. The orthodontic or restorative software may also be purchased subsequently for an upgrade fee. Additional applications such as the Invisalign Outcome Simulator are not available for sale separately. Other proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K such as ClinCheck and ClinCheck Pro software, the Invisalign Doctor Site, and feature enhancements are included as part of the Invisalign System and are not sold separately nor do they contribute as individual items to revenues. Business Strategy Our goal is to establish the Invisalign System as the standard method for treating malocclusion and our intraoral scanning platform as the preferred scanning protocol for digital scans. Our technology and innovations are designed to meet the demands of today s patients with treatment options that are convenient, comfortable, affordable, while helping to improve overall oral health. We strive to help our doctors move their practices forward by connecting them with new patients, providing digital solutions to help increase practice efficiency and helping them deliver the best possible treatment outcomes and experiences to millions of people around the world. We achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers as follows: 1. International Expansion. In order to provide the millions of consumers access to a better smile, we continue increasing our presence globally by making our products available in more countries. We expect to continue expanding our business by investing in resources, infrastructure, and initiatives that will drive Invisalign treatment growth in our current and new international markets. As our core international countries continue to grow in both number of new Invisalign trained doctors and customer utilization, we strive to make sure we can support that growth through investments such as headcount, clinical support, product improvements, education and advertising. We have transitioned most of our smaller country markets from an indirect to a direct sales model, and, while we do not expect a material impact from these countries for 7 some time, in the near term we will leverage our existing infrastructure in adjacent country markets as we build local sales and support organizations to drive long-term market penetration. In addition, we are scaling and expanding our operations and facilities to better support our customers across the globe. In 2019, we opened a new order acquisition and treatment facility in Wroclaw, Poland and a new treatment planning facility in Yokohama, Japan to support customers within these regions. 2. GP Adoption. We want to enable GPs, who have access to a large patient base, to more easily identify Invisalign cases they can treat, monitor patient progress or, if needed, help refer cases to an orthodontist while providing high-quality restorative, orthodontic, and dental hygiene care. In 2019, we continued to commercialize Invisalign Go, a simplified and streamlined solution designed for GPs and trained over 3,700 new Invisalign Go doctors primarily in EMEA. In the EMEA region, we segmented sales and marketing for certain country markets into two separate organizations to serve each customer segment, orthodontists and GP dentists separately, thereby increasing our focus and effectiveness on GP dentists. The iTero scanner is an important component to that customer experience and is central to a digital approach as well as overall customer utilization of Invisalign treatment. The iTero scanner is optimized for Invisalign treatment with the Invisalign Outcome Simulator, Invisalign Progress Assessment tool, and TimeLapse technology. This highlights areas of diagnostic interest to dental professionals and helps foster a proactive conversation with the patient regarding potential restorative or orthodontic solutions. In March 2019, we began a collaboration with Digital Smile Design to deliver dedicated education programs, enable simplified, streamlined integration of digital end-to-end workflows into GPs' practices and offer doctors more opportunities to learn about digital tools and treatment planning support. In September 2019, we formed a collaboration with Zimmer Biomet Dental to leverage their extensive direct global salesforce and network of dental clinicians and laboratories to help drive further penetration of iTero scanners and services in the growing digital restorative market. The collaboration also offers Zimmer Biomet Dental customers access to Invisalign clear aligners through