Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 46 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 46 Item 9B. Other Information 47 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 47 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 48 Item 11. Executive Compensation 48 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 48 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 48 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 48 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 49 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 53 Signatures 54 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words "believe," "project," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "forecast," "outlook," "intend," "strategy," "future", "opportunity", "plan," "may," "should," "will," "would," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar expressions generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as: statements regarding the continued impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain constraints, electronic component and labor shortages, inflation, rising freight and material costs, projections of revenue, margins, expenses, tax provisions, earnings, cash flows, benefit obligations, dividends, share purchases or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to our products and services; any statements regarding future economic conditions or our performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. You are advised to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in materials we file with or furnish to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. Factors that might affect our forward-looking statements include, among other things: adverse impacts to our business operations due to the global COVID-19 pandemic and our ability to predict the full extent of such impacts; competitive factors in the industry in which we compete, including technological developments and increased competition from private label brands; the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services that meet the varied and evolving needs of our customers; the demand for our products and services, including changes in customer and consumer preferences, and our ability to maintain beneficial relationships with large customers; our products or solutions fail to meet certification and specification requirements, are defective or otherwise fall short of customers needs and expectations; the ability to complete and integrate any acquisitions and/or losses related to our investments in external companies; business opportunities that diverge from our core business; our ability to operate efficiently and productively; our ability to effectively manage and implement restructuring initiatives or other organizational changes; the effects of global climate change or other unexpected events, including global health crises, that may disrupt our operations; our ability to manage risks related to our information technology and operational technology systems and cybersecurity, including implementation of new processes that may cause disruptions and be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected; our reliance on third-party vendors for many of the critical elements of our global information and operational technology infrastructure and their failure to provide effective support for such infrastructure; disruption and breaches of our information systems; ability to recruit and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce; disruptions in our global supply chain, including supply chain constraints, electronic component and labor shortages and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by our supplier partners; 2 Table of Contents availability of and increased inflation impacting the prices of raw materials, parts and components, freight, packaging, labor and energy; economic, political and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, including changes to trade agreements, sanctions, import and export regulations and custom duties; conditions of the institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets, including the impact of work-from-home trends; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potential impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or our long-lived assets; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs, in addition to risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness; the impact our outstanding indebtedness may have on our business and operations and other capital market conditions, including availability of funding sources and currency exchange rate fluctuations; risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputational matters; the ability to protect our brand reputation and trademarks; the outcome of any litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings; claims of infringement of intellectual property rights by third parties; adverse publicity or improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners; changes to, or changes in interpretations of, current laws and regulations; uncertainty and inherent subjectivity related to transfer pricing regulations; changes in tax requirements, including tax rate changes, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities and revised tax law interpretations; and risks related to our incorporation in Ireland, including the possible effects on us of future legislation or interpretations in the U.S. that may limit or eliminate potential U.S. tax benefits resulting from our incorporation in a non-U.S. jurisdiction, such as Ireland, or deny U.S. government contracts to us based upon our incorporation in such non-U.S. jurisdiction. Some of the significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described more fully in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." You should read that information in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8 of this report. We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Allegion plc ("Allegion," "we," "us" or "the Company") is a leading global provider of security products and solutions that keep people and assets safe and secure in the places they reside, work and thrive. We create peace of mind by pioneering safety and security with a vision of seamless access and a safer world. Seamless access allows authorized, automated and safe passage and movement through spaces and places in the most efficient and frictionless manner possible. Central to our vision is partnering and developing ecosystems to create a flawless experience and enable an uninterrupted and secure flow of people and assets. We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of security and access control products and solutions across a range of market-leading brands. Our experts across the globe deliver high-quality security products, services and systems, and we use our deep expertise to serve as trusted partners to end-users who seek customized solutions to their security needs. Allegion Principal Products Door closers and controls Doors and door systems Electronic security products Software-enabled access control systems Exit devices Locks, locksets, portable locks, key systems and services Time, attendance and workforce productivity systems Other accessories Access control security products and solutions are critical elements in every building and home. Many door openings are configured to maximize a room s particular form and function while also meeting local and national building and safety code requirements and end-user security needs. Most buildings have multiple door openings, each serving its own purpose and requiring different specific access control solutions. Each door must fit exactly within its frame, be prepared precisely for its hinges, synchronize with its specific lockset and corresponding latch and align with a specific key to secure the door. Moreover, with the increasing adoption of the Internet of Things ("IoT"), security products including keys are increasingly linked electronically, integrated into software and popular consumer technology platforms and controlled with mobile applications, creating additional functionality and complexity. Seamless access capitalizes on the ability for multiple products and brands to work in tandem, allowing people and assets to move efficiently and safely by adapting access rights for various settings or use cases. These solutions can also provide insights on usage and traffic patterns to improve hygiene of high-traffic areas, boost efficiency and improve visitor, staff and tenant experiences. We believe our ability to deliver a wide range of solutions that can be custom configured to meet end-users security needs is a key driver of our success. We accomplish this with: Our extensive and versatile product portfolio, combined with our deep expertise, which enables us to deliver the right products and solutions to meet diverse security and functional specifications and to successfully and securely integrate into leading technology and systems; Our consultative approach and expertise, which enables us to develop the most efficient and appropriate building security and access control specifications to fulfill the unique needs of our end-users and their partners, including architects, contractors, homebuilders and engineers; Our access to and management of key channels in the market, which is critical to delivering our products in an efficient and consistent manner; and Our enterprise excellence capabilities, including our global manufacturing operations and agile supply chain, which facilitate our ability to deliver specific product and system configurations to end-users and consumers worldwide, quickly and efficiently. We believe the security products industry will benefit from several global macroeconomic trends, including: Expected growth in global electronic products as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities and homes; Heightened awareness of security and privacy requirements; Increased focus on touchless solutions that help promote a healthy environment; and The shift to a digital, interconnected environment. We operate in and report financial results for two segments: Allegion Americas and Allegion International, the latter of which provides security products, services and solutions primarily throughout Europe, Asia and Oceania. We sell our products and solutions under the following brands: 4 Table of Contents 5 Table of Contents We sell a wide range of security and access control solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities worldwide, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our leading brands include CISA , Interflex , LCN , Schlage , SimonsVoss and Von Duprin . We believe LCN, Schlage and Von Duprin hold the No. 1 or No. 2 position in their primary product categories in North America while CISA, Interflex and SimonsVoss hold the No. 1 or No. 2 position in their primary product categories in certain European markets. 6 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2021, we generated Net revenues of $2,867.4 million and Operating income of $530.2 million. History and Developments We were incorporated in Ireland on May 9, 2013, to hold the commercial and residential security businesses of what was then Ingersoll Rand plc ("Ingersoll Rand"). On December 1, 2013, we became a stand-alone public company after Ingersoll Rand completed the separation of these businesses from the rest of Ingersoll Rand via the transfer of these businesses from Ingersoll Rand to us and the issuance by us of ordinary shares directly to Ingersoll Rand s shareholders (the "Spin-off"). Our security businesses have long and distinguished operating histories. Several of our brands were established more than 100 years ago, and many originally created their categories: Von Duprin, established in 1908, was awarded the first exit device patent; Schlage, established in 1920, was awarded the first patents granted for the cylindrical lock and the push button lock; LCN, established in 1926, created the first door closer; CISA, established in 1926, devised the first electronically controlled lock; and SimonsVoss, established in 1995, created the first keyless digital transponder. We have built upon these founding legacies since our entry into the security products market through the acquisition of Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN in 1974. Today, we continue to develop and introduce innovative and market-leading products. For example, in 2018, we announced the formation of Allegion Ventures, a corporate venture fund with an initial allocation of $50 million to invest in and help accelerate the growth of companies that have innovative, digital-first technologies and products such as touchless access and workspace monitoring solutions that complement our core business solutions. Building on this success, in December 2021, Allegion Ventures announced a second fund with an additional allocation of $100 million to focus on investing in technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning and cybersecurity. Recent examples of successful product launches by Allegion are illustrated in the table below: 7 Table of Contents Product Brands Year Innovation Residential Locks, Cylinders and Levers Schlage, Gainsborough, CISA 2019/2020/ 2021 Schlage Primus RP patented, restricted key systems, allowing the widely used, historic Schlage Obverse keyway family a path to Primus levels of security with patent coverage to 2029. Next generation smart lock (Schlage Encode) is joined by one in Australia (Gainsborough Freestyle Trilock), which has passage, privacy or dead lock modes that can be operated using the built-in keypad, a key override or through the mobile app and offers integrations with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. The optional WiFi bridge can be used to program and operate the lock from anywhere in the world. New flat key European cylinders for multiple entrance buildings (CISA Asix P8) and high security connected solutions (CISA Domo Connexa). Commercial Locks, Cylinders, Levers and Electronic Access Platforms Schlage, SimonsVoss, CISA 2019/2020/2021 Release of mobile-enabled versions of locks, readers and controllers (Schlage NDE, LE, MTB and CTE), mobile credentials, Bluetooth Low Energy ("BLE") and RFID technology and integrations between electronic locks and exit devices (Schlage, CISA). RC reader controller combines powerful ISONAS PureIP technology together with intelligent hardware (Schlage Mobile Access Solutions). New Digital Cylinder AX (SimonsVoss) supports active transponders, Mifare badges and BLE, a further step towards digitizing the door through the keyhole. Mortice self-locking system with a mono-point motorized lock variant (CISA) and new platformed, modular replacement of cylindrical locks (Schlage ALX). New multipoint exit mortice self-locking system for panic exit doors with narrow profile (CISA). Enhanced access control solutions for low-to-medium complexity applications offers a complete portfolio of IP and mobile-enabled devices across a variety of popular applications and openings ( Schlage, ISONAS, Locknetics, Von Duprin, and Falcon). Exit Devices and Closers LCN 2020/2021 New low-energy automatic operator (LCN 6400 Compact series), retrofit solution with actuators reduces the cost and complexity of touchless access and ADA accessibility, converting the popular LCN 4040XP mechanical closer and powered by a simple wall plug or an external power supply. Follows the introduction of a range of touchless solutions, including automatic operators, actuators and wireless transmitters. Doors and Door Systems TGP 2021 North America's first fire-rated Full-Lite Door System, certified to meet forced entry standards (TGP ASTM E2395). Bike Lighting and Portable Locking Solutions AXA, Kryptonite, Trelock 2019/2020/2021 Innovation in bike safety from each of our Global Portable Security brands (AXA, Kryptonite, Trelock); and new ergonomic cable and chain locks (AXA). Software, Mobile and Web Applications Schlage, CISA, Gainsborough 2019/2020/2021 Mobile apps for iOS and Android phones (Schlage, CISA, Gainsborough) lock, unlock, issue mobile keys and give status checks. Schlage Mobile Student ID allows university students, faculty and staff to add student ID cards to Apple Wallet or Google Pay for door access, payments, attendance tracking and ticketing). App and mobile solution (CISA Smart Access) allows guests to use their smartphone like a room key and also start a WhatsApp chat with the front desk with a single click, creating guest experiences beyond security and safety. Cloud access management software (CISA AERO) expands with a new open software interface for property management systems. 8 Table of Contents Industry and Competition The global markets we serve encompass institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Oceania. We expect the security products industry will continue to benefit from favorable trends such as increased concerns about safety and security, new attention on touchless solutions that help promote a healthy environment and technology-driven innovation that enables seamless access and a better user experience as people and assets traverse multiple locations and facilities. Further, we also expect continued growth in connected security products and solutions as end-users continue to adopt newer technologies, including IoT, in their facilities and single and multi-family homes. The security products markets are highly competitive and fragmented throughout the world, with a number of large multi-national companies and thousands of smaller regional and local companies. This high fragmentation primarily reflects local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs. We believe our principal global competitors are Assa Abloy AB and dormakaba Group. We also face competition in various markets and product categories throughout the world, including from Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. in the North American residential market. As we move into more technologically advanced product categories, we may also compete against new, more specialized competitors. Our success depends on a variety of factors, including brand and reputation, product breadth, innovation, integration with popular technology platforms, quality and delivery capabilities, price and service capabilities. As many of our businesses sell through wholesale distribution, our success also depends on building and partnering with a strong channel network. Although price often serves as an important customer decision point, we also compete based on the breadth, innovation and quality of our products and solutions, our ability to custom-configure solutions to meet individual end-user requirements and our global supply chain. Products and Services We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of security and access control products and solutions across a range of market-leading brands: Locks, locksets, portable locks and key systems and services : A broad array of cylindrical and mortise door locksets, security levers and master key systems that are used to protect and control access and a range of portable security products, including bicycle, small vehicle and travel locks. We also offer locksmith services in select locations; Door closers, controls and exit devices : An extensive portfolio of life-safety products and solutions generally installed on fire doors and facility entrances and exits. Door controls include both mechanical door closers and automatic door operators. Exit devices, also known as panic hardware, provide rapid egress to allow building occupants to exit safely in an emergency; Electronic security products and access control systems, including software solutions : A broad range of electrified locks, access control systems, key card and reader systems and accessories, including IoT, BLE, Power over Ethernet and cloud-based solutions; Time, attendance and workforce productivity systems : Products and services designed to help business customers manage and monitor workforce access control parameters, attendance and employee scheduling. We also offer ongoing aftermarket services in addition to design and installation offerings; Doors and door systems : A portfolio of hollow metal, glass and specialty doors and door systems; and Other accessories : A variety of additional security and product components, including hinges, door pulls, door stops, bike lights, louvers, weather stripping, thresholds and other accessories, as well as certain bathroom fittings and accessibility aids. Customers We sell most of our products and solutions through distribution and retail channels, including specialty distribution, e-commerce and wholesalers. We have built a network of channel partners that help our customers choose the right solution to meet their security needs and help commercial and institutional end-users fulfill and install orders. We also sell through a variety of retail channels, including large do-it-yourself home improvement centers, multiple online and e-commerce platforms, as well as small, specialty showroom outlets. We work with our retail partners on developing marketing and merchandising strategies to maximize their sales per square foot of shelf space. Through a few of our businesses, such as Interflex and our Global Portable Security brands, we also provide products and services directly to end-users. Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 25% of our total Net revenues in 2021. No single customer represented 10% or more of our total Net revenues in 2021. 9 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing In markets where we sell through commercial and institutional distribution channels, we employ sales professionals around the world who work with a combination of end-users, security professionals, architects, contractors, engineers and distribution partners to develop specific, custom-configured solutions for our end-users needs. Our field sales professionals are assisted by specification writers who work with architects, engineers and consultants to help design door openings and security systems to meet end-users functional, aesthetic and regulatory requirements. Both groups are supported by dedicated customer care and technical sales-support specialists worldwide. We also support our sales efforts with a variety of marketing efforts, including trade-specific advertising, cooperative distributor merchandising, digital marketing and marketing at a variety of industry trade shows. In markets in which we sell through retail and home-builder distribution channels, we have teams of sales, merchandising and marketing professionals who help drive brand and product awareness through our channel partners and to consumers. We utilize a variety of advertising and marketing strategies, including traditional consumer media, retail merchandising, digital marketing, retail promotions and builder and consumer trade shows, to support these teams. We also work actively with several industry bodies around the world to help promote effective and consistent safety and security standards. For example, we are members of Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association (BHMA), Connectivity Standards Alliance, Construction Specification Institute, Door and Hardware Institute (DHI), FiRa Consortium, Partner Alliance for Safer Schools (PASS), Physical Security Interoperability Alliance (PSIA), Security Industry Association, Security Technology Alliance, Z-Wave Alliance, The European Federation of Associations of Locks and Builders Hardware Manufacturers (ARGE), ASSOFERMA (Italy), BHE (Germany) and UNIQ (France). Production and Distribution We manufacture our products in our geographic markets around the world. We operate 29 principal production and assembly facilities 14 in our Allegion Americas segment and 15 in our Allegion International segment. We own 15 of these facilities and lease the others. Our strategy is to produce in the region of use, wherever appropriate, to allow us to be closer to the end-user and increase efficiency and timely product delivery. Much of our U.S. based residential portfolio is manufactured in the Baja region of Mexico under the Maquiladora, Manufacturing and Export Services Industry ("IMMEX") program. In managing our network of production and assembly facilities, we focus on continuous improvement in customer experience, employee health and safety, productivity, resource utilization and operational excellence. We distribute our products through a broad network of channel partners. In addition, third-party manufacturing and logistics providers perform certain manufacturing, storage and distribution services for us to support certain parts of our manufacturing and distribution network. Raw Materials We support our region-of-use production strategy with corresponding region-of-use supplier partners, where available. Our global and regional commodity teams work with production leadership, product management and materials management teams to procure materials for production. Where appropriate, we may enter into fixed-cost contracts to lower overall costs. We purchase a wide range of raw materials, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, as well as other parts and components, such as electronic components, to support our production facilities. During 2021, especially in the second half of the year, we experienced an acceleration of several macroeconomic challenges, including supply chain disruptions and delays; shortages in materials, including reductions in allocations of electronic components and other parts from key suppliers; and increased material and other inflation. These trends had a negative impact on our results of operations in 2021, and while we currently anticipate these challenges to continue in 2022, we are rapidly adapting to navigate these challenges. See "Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a more detailed discussion of these trends and challenges. Intellectual Property Intellectual property, inclusive of certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, is important to our business. We create, protect and enforce our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to try to ensure the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe such distinctive marks are an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our products from others. We consider our CISA, Interflex, LCN, Schlage, 10 Table of Contents SimonsVoss, Von Duprin and other associated trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in a number of countries. Although certain proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we do not believe we are materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. Facilities We operate through a broad network of sale