Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 47 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B. Other Information 47 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 48 Item 11. Executive Compensation 48 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 48 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 48 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 48 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 49 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 53 Signatures 54 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words "believe," "project," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "forecast," "outlook," "intend," "strategy," "future", "opportunity", "plan," "may," "should," "will," "would," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar expressions generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as: projections of revenue, margins, expenses, tax provisions, earnings, cash flows, benefit obligations, dividends, share purchases or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to any statements concerning expected development, performance or market share relating to our products and services; any statements regarding future economic conditions or our performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. You are advised to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in materials we file with or furnish to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties - many of which are beyond our control - as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. Factors that might affect our forward-looking statements include, among other things: economic, political and business conditions in the markets in which we operate, including changes to trade agreements, sanctions, import and export regulations and custom duties; conditions of the institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets; competitive factors in the industry in which we compete, including technological developments and increased competition from private label brands; the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services; the demand for our products and services, including changes in customer and consumer preferences, and our ability to maintain beneficial relationships with large customers; the ability to protect our brand reputation and trademarks; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the ability to complete and integrate any acquisitions and/or losses related to our investments in external companies; business opportunities that diverge from core business; our ability to operate efficiently and productively; the results of our restructuring plans; the outcome of any litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings; claims of infringement of intellectual property rights by third parties; adverse publicity or improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners; disruptions in our global supply chain, including product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners; the effects of global climate change or other unexpected events, including global health crises, that may disrupt our operations; our ability to manage risks related to our information technology and operational technology systems and cybersecurity, including implementation of new processes that may cause disruptions and be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected; our reliance on third-party vendors for many of the critical elements of our global information and operational technology infrastructure and their failure to provide effective support for such infrastructure; disruption and breaches of our information systems; 2 Table of Contents availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key commodities and the impact of higher energy prices; potential further impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or our long-lived assets; ability to recruit and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce; changes to, or changes in interpretations of, current laws and regulations; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs, in addition to risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness; uncertainty and inherent subjectivity related to transfer pricing regulations; changes in tax requirements, including tax rate changes, the adoption of new United States (U.S.) or non-U.S. tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities and revised tax law interpretations; the impact our outstanding indebtedness may have on our business and operations, and other capital market conditions, including availability of funding sources and currency exchange rate fluctuations; and risks related to our incorporation in Ireland, including the possible effects on us of future legislation or interpretations in the U.S. that may limit or eliminate potential U.S. tax benefits resulting from our incorporation in a non-U.S. jurisdiction, such as Ireland, or deny U.S. government contracts to us based upon our incorporation in such non-U.S. jurisdiction. Some of the significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described more fully in Item 1A "Risk Factors." You should read that information in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8 of this report. We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Allegion plc ("Allegion," "we," "us" or "the Company") is a leading global provider of security products and solutions that keeps people and assets safe and secure in the places where they reside, work and thrive. We create peace of mind by pioneering safety and security with a vision of seamless access and a safer world. We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands. Our experts across the globe deliver high-quality security products, services and systems, and we use our deep expertise to serve as trusted partners to end-users who seek customized solutions to their security needs. Allegion Principal Products Door closers and controls Doors and door systems Electronic security products Electronic, biometric and mobile access control systems Exit devices Locks, locksets, portable locks, key systems and services Time, attendance and workforce productivity systems Other accessories Access control security products and solutions are critical elements in every building and home. Many door openings are configured to maximize a room s particular form and function while also meeting local and national building and safety code requirements and end-user security needs. Most buildings have multiple door openings, each serving its own purpose and requiring different specific access-control solutions. Each door must fit exactly within its frame, be prepared precisely for its hinges, synchronize with its specific lockset and corresponding latch and align with a specific key to secure the door. Moreover, with the increasing adoption of the Internet of Things ("IoT"), security products are increasingly linked electronically, integrated into software and popular consumer technology platforms and controlled with mobile applications, creating additional functionality and complexity. We believe our ability to deliver a wide range of solutions that can be custom-configured to meet end-users security needs is a key driver of our success. We accomplish this with: Our extensive and versatile product portfolio, combined with our deep expertise, which enables us to deliver the right products and solutions to meet diverse security and functional specifications and to successfully and securely integrate into leading technology and systems; Our consultative approach and expertise, which enables us to develop the most efficient and appropriate building security and access-control specifications to fulfill the unique needs of our end-users and their partners, including architects, contractors, home-builders and engineers; Our access to and management of key channels in the market, which is critical to delivering our products in an efficient and consistent manner; and Our enterprise excellence capabilities, including our global manufacturing operations and agile supply chain, which facilitate our ability to deliver specific product and system configurations to end-users and consumers worldwide, quickly and efficiently. We believe that the security products industry is growing and will continue to benefit from several global macroeconomic and long-term demographic trends, including: The convergence of mechanical and electronic security products; Heightened awareness of security and privacy requirements; Increased global urbanization; and The shift to a digital, interconnected environment. We believe the security products industry will also benefit from continued growth in institutional, commercial and residential end-markets. As end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities and homes, we also expect growth in the global electronic product categories we serve to outperform growth in mechanical products. We operate in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, India and Africa ("EMEIA"); and Asia Pacific. We sell our products and solutions under the following brands: 4 Table of Contents Allegion Brands (listed for each region) 5 Table of Contents We sell a wide range of security and access control solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities worldwide, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our leading brands include CISA , Interflex , LCN , Schlage , SimonsVoss and Von Duprin . We believe LCN, Schlage and Von Duprin hold the No. 1 position in their primary product categories in North America while CISA, Interflex and SimonsVoss hold the No.1 or No. 2 position in their primary product categories in certain European markets. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we generated Net revenues of $2,854.0 million and Operating income of $565.1 million . 6 Table of Contents History and Developments We were incorporated in Ireland on May 9, 2013, to hold the commercial and residential security businesses of Ingersoll Rand plc ("Ingersoll Rand"). On December 1, 2013, we became a stand-alone public company after Ingersoll Rand completed the separation of these businesses from the rest of Ingersoll Rand via the transfer of these businesses from Ingersoll Rand to us and the issuance by us of ordinary shares directly to Ingersoll Rand s shareholders (the "Spin-off"). Our security businesses have long and distinguished operating histories. Several of our brands were established nearly 100 years ago, and many originally created their categories: Von Duprin, established in 1908, was awarded the first exit device patent; Schlage, established in 1920, was awarded the first patents granted for the cylindrical lock and the push button lock; LCN, established in 1926, created the first door closer; CISA, established in 1926, devised the first electronically controlled lock; and SimonsVoss, established in 1995, created the first keyless digital transponder. We have built upon these founding legacies since our entry into the security products market through the acquisition of Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN in 1974. Today, we continue to develop and introduce innovative and market-leading products. In addition, in 2018 we announced the formation of Allegion Ventures, a corporate venture fund that invests in and helps accelerate the growth of companies that have innovative technologies and products. Since its formation, Allegion Ventures has invested nearly $10 million in several early-stage companies that share our pioneering vision and seek to find smart and innovative solutions that help keep people and assets safe and secure in the places where they reside, work and thrive. Recent examples of successful product launches are illustrated in the table below: 7 Table of Contents Product Brands Year Innovation Residential Locks, Cylinders and Levers Schlage, Bricard, Milre 2017/2018/ 2019 Next-generation Schlage smart locks including the first WiFi enabled deadbolt to work with Key by Amazon and Ring devices with built-in connectivity (Schlage Encode); 4-in-1 lock with fingerprint sensors, smart card, code access or a physical key (SEL); Z-wave smart deadbolt and Zigbee-certified model compatible with Amazon Key and Ring devices (Schlage Connect). Expanded handlesets for Schlage s new universal functionality solution that allows homeowners to change from a doorknob to a lever and convert a non-locking door to lockable in minutes (Schlage Custom) and expanded ranges of cylinders and new aluminum trims for DIY customers (Bricard). Residential e-locks in Asia Pacific with improved biometric sensors, new designs and push-pull electronic locks with Bluetooth modules (Q6, X7, Milre). Asia-Pacific Schlage series with new lever designs and finishes (Medio and Form); new mechanism for faster door hardware installation (QuickFix); and door and window hardware for aluminum joinery (Schlage Kanso). Commercial Locks, Cylinders, Levers and Electronic Access Platforms Schlage, CISA, SimonsVoss, Bricard 2017/2018/ 2019 Enhancements to our comprehensive portfolio of globally available mechanical, wired electrified and wireless electronic solutions provide a common aesthetic and consistent user experience throughout a building (Schlage). Firmware releases for U.S. channel-partner readers to give new functionality and USB communication mode for readers (Schlage). Mobile credentials, new Bluetooth Low Energy and RFID technology and integrations between electronic locks and exit devices (CISA). New rim and mortice locks for Southeast Asia (S-series) and expanded cylinders for the European locksmith channel. Multipoint mortise locks and a new offering for two-door leaves (Bricard); multipoint self-locking system with remote-open capability and the highest European-standard security grade (CISA). New enhancements to the electronic Smart Handle (SimonsVoss). Exit Devices and Closers Von Duprin, Falcon, CISA 2018/2019 New award-winning and cost-effective retrofit exit device that allows for remote undogging and monitoring with partner software (Von Duprin); new fire-rated retrofit series (Falcon); and quiet exit solutions (Von Duprin). New range of asymmetric rack-and-pinion door closers and an entry-level high-efficiency option (CISA). Doors and Door Closers TGP, AD Systems 2019 First to the market surface mounted, top-hung single-leaf door that offers clean, modern aesthetic of sliding flush wood doors that achieve a 45-minute UL 10B fire rating (FireSlide). New fire-rated and impact safety-rated glass doors with a heat resistive perimeter frame, which features nearly colorless transitions between adjoining pieces of low-iron glass, eliminating the need for colored internal glass unit spacers or vertical frame mullions (Fireframes ClearView). Bike Lighting and Portable Locking Solutions AXA, Kryptonite, Trelock 2017/2018/2019 Broad range of innovation in bike safety from each of our Global Portable Security brands (AXA, Kryptonite and Trelock), ranging from compact dynamo and e-bike lights to USB, battery powered and rechargeable lights. Expanded lines of folding locks, integrated chains, ring locks and applications for bikes and motorcycles (AXA, Kryptonite, Trelock); new ergonomic cable and chain locks and expanded track-and-trace services (AXA). Software, Mobile and Web Applications Allegion (Overtur, ENGAGE), Schlage, Briton, Interflex, ISONAS 2018/2019 Cloud-based suite of tools for project teams to collaborate on specifications and the security design of doors and openings, which provides a centralized place to capture and maintain door hardware requirements and decisions with easy options to push information back to the design tools (Overtur). Multiple enhancements to the user experience include biometric login for the mobile app, simplified account and site set-up and gateway site survey (ENGAGE) and mobile apps (Briton and Schlage) let users lock, unlock, issue mobile keys, check status and more. New modules for visitor management, encouraging self-service and Microsoft Outlook functionality and managed service featuring a cloud-based solution of time recording (Interflex); updated cloud-hosted access control platform with real time events, alerting, and user-initiated door control (ISONAS). 8 Table of Contents Industry and Competition The global markets we serve encompass institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets throughout North America, EMEIA and Asia Pacific. In recent years, as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities and single and multi-family homes, including IoT, growth in electronic security products and solutions continues to outperform growth in mechanical security products and solutions. We expect the security products industry will continue to benefit from favorable long-term demographic trends such as continued urbanization of the global population, increased concerns about safety and security and technology-driven innovation. The security products markets are highly competitive and fragmented throughout the world, with a number of large multi-national companies and thousands of smaller regional and local companies. This high fragmentation primarily reflects local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs. We believe our principal global competitors are Assa Abloy AB and dormakaba Group. We also face competition in various markets and product categories throughout the world, including from Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc. in the North American residential market. As we move into more technologically-advanced product categories, we may also compete against new, more specialized competitors. Our success depends on a variety of factors, including brand and reputation, product breadth, innovation, integration with popular technology platforms, quality and delivery capabilities, price and service capabilities. As many of our businesses sell through wholesale distribution, our success also depends on building and partnering with a strong channel network. Although price often serves as an important customer decision point, we also compete based on the breadth and quality of our products and solutions, our ability to custom-configure solutions to meet individual end-user requirements and our global supply chain. Products and Services We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of mechanical and electronic security products across a range of market-leading brands: Locks, locksets, portable locks and key systems and services : A broad array of cylindrical and mortise door locksets, security levers and master key systems that are used to protect and control access and a range of portable security products, including bicycle, small vehicle and travel locks. We also offer locksmith services in select locations; Door closers, controls and exit devices : An extensive portfolio of life-safety products generally installed on fire doors and facility entrances and exits. Door controls include both mechanical door closers and automatic door operators. Exit devices, also known as panic hardware, provide rapid egress to allow building occupants to exit safely in an emergency; Electronic security products and access control systems : A broad range of electrified locks, access control systems, key card and reader systems and accessories, including IoT, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), Power over Ethernet and cloud-based solutions; Time, attendance and workforce productivity systems : Products and services designed to help business customers manage and monitor workforce access control parameters, attendance and employee scheduling. We offer ongoing aftermarket services in addition to design and installation offerings; Doors and door systems : A portfolio of hollow metal, glass, wood and specialty doors and door systems; and Other accessories : A variety of additional security and product components, including hinges, door pulls, door stops, bike lights, louvers, weather stripping, thresholds and other accessories, as well as certain bathroom fittings and accessibility aids. Customers We sell most of our products and solutions through distribution and retail channels, including specialty distribution, e-commerce and wholesalers. We have built a network of channel partners that help our customers choose the right solution to meet their security needs and help commercial and institutional end-users fulfill and install orders. We also sell through a variety of retail channels, including large do-it-yourself home improvement centers, multiple on-line and e-commerce platforms, as well as small, specialty showroom outlets. We work with our retail partners on developing marketing and merchandising strategies to maximize their sales per square foot of shelf space. Through our Interflex and API Locksmiths businesses and Global Portable Security brands, we also provide products and solutions directly to end-users. Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 23% of our total Net revenues in 2019 . No single customer represented 10% or more of our total Net revenues in 2019 . 9 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing In markets where we sell through commercial and institutional distribution channels, we employ sales professionals around the world who work with a combination of end-users, security professionals, architects, contractors, engineers and distribution partners to develop specific custom-configured solutions for our end-users needs. Our field sales professionals are assisted by specification writers who work with architects, engineers and consultants to help design door openings and security systems to meet end-users functional, aesthetic and regulatory requirements. Both groups are supported by dedicated customer care and technical sales-support specialists worldwide. We also support our sales efforts with a variety of marketing efforts, including trade-specific advertising, cooperative distributor merchandising, digital marketing and marketing at a variety of industry trade shows. In markets in which we sell through retail and home-builder distribution channels, we have teams of sales, merchandising and marketing professionals who help drive brand and product awareness through our channel partners and to consumers. We utilize a variety of advertising and marketing strategies, including traditional consumer media, retail merchandising, digital marketing, retail promotions and builder and consumer trade shows, to support these teams. We also work actively with several industry bodies around the world to help promote effective and consistent safety and security standards. For example, we are members of Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association (BHMA), Construction Specification Institute, FiRa Consortium, Internet of Things Consortium (IoTC), Physical Security Interoperability Alliance (PSIA), Security Industry Association, Security Technology Alliance, ASSOFERMA (Italy), BHE (Germany) and UNIQ (France). Production and Distribution We manufacture our products in our geographic markets around the world. We operate 32 production and assembly facilities, including 15 in Americas, 11 in EMEIA and 6 in Asia Pacific. We own 16 of these facilities and lease the others. Our strategy is to produce in the region of use, wherever appropriate, to allow us to be closer to the end-user and increase efficiency and timely product delivery. Much of our U.S. based residential portfolio is manufactured in the Baja region of Mexico under the Maquiladora, Manufacturing and Export Services Industry ("IMMEX") program (formerly known as the maquiladora program). In managing our network of production facilities, we focus on eliminating excess capacity, reducing cycle time through productivity and harmonizing production practices and safety procedures. We distribute our products through a broad network of channel partners. In addition, third-party manufacturing and logistics providers perform certain manufacturing, storage and distribution services for us to support certain parts of our manufacturing and distribution network. Raw Materials We support our region-of-use production strategy with corresponding region-of-use supplier partners, where available. Our global and regional commodity teams work with production leadership, product management and materials management teams to ensure adequate materials are available for production. We purchase a wide range of raw materials, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, to support our production facilities. Where appropriate, we may enter into fixed-cost contracts to lower overall costs. Intellectual Property Intellectual property, inclusive of certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, is important to our business. We create, protect and enforce our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to try to ensure the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe such distinctive marks are an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our products from others. We consider our CISA, Interflex, LCN, Schlage, SimonsVoss, Von Duprin and other associated trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in a number of countries. Although certain proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we do not believe we are materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. 10 Table of Contents Facilities We operate through a broad network of sales offices, engineering centers, 32 production and assembly facilities and several distribution centers throughout the world. Our active properties represent approximately 6.6 million square feet, of which approximately 39% is leased. The following table shows the location of our principal worldwide production and assembly facilities: Production and Assembly Facilities Americas EMEIA Asia Pacific Blue Ash, Ohio Clamecy, France Auckland, New Zealand Boulder, Colorado Dubai, United Arab Emirates Brooklyn, Australia Chino, California Durchhausen, Germany Bucheon, South Korea Ensenada, Mexico Faenza, Italy Jinshan, China Everett, Washington Feuquieres, France Melbourne, Australia Indianapolis, Indiana Monsampolo, Italy Sydney, Australia Irving, Texas Muenster, Germany McKenzie, Tennessee Osterfeld, Germany Mississauga, Ontario Renchen, Germany Perrysburg, Ohio Veenendaal, Netherlands Princeton, Illinois Zawiercie, Poland Security, Colorado Snoqualmie, Washington Tecate, Mexico Tijuana, Mexico Research and Development We are committed to investing in our research and development capabilities with a focus on technology innovations that will deliver growth through the introduction of new products and solutions. In addition, we invest in initiatives that continuously drive improvements in product cost, quality, safety and sustainability. Our research and development team is managed as a global, collaborative group to identify and develop new technologies and worldwide product platforms. We organize our resources regionally to leverage expertise in local standards and configurations for the benefit of our customers. Further, 