Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 26 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. [Reserved] 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B. Other Information 45 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 45 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 46 Item 11. Executive Compensation 46 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 46 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 46 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 47 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 51 Signatures 51 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words "believe," "project," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "forecast," "outlook," "intend," "strategy," "future," "opportunity," "plan," "may," "should," "will," "would," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," or the negative thereof or variations thereon or similar expressions generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections including, among other things: ongoing macroeconomic challenges and continued economic instability; increased prices and inflation; volatility and uncertainty in the political, economic and regulatory environments in which we operate, including changes to trade agreements, sanctions, import and export regulations, custom duties and applicable tax regulations and interpretations, social and political unrest, instability, national and international conflict, terrorist acts and other geographical disputes and uncertainties; the strength and stability of the institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potential impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or our long-lived assets; instability in the U.S. and global capital and credit markets; our ability to make scheduled debt payments or to refinance our debt obligations; increased competition, including from technological developments; the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services; changes in customer and consumer preferences and our ability to maintain beneficial relationships with large customers; our products or solutions failing to meet certification and specification requirements, being defective, causing property damage, bodily harm or injury, or otherwise falling short of customers needs and expectations; our ability to identify and successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, including achieving their anticipated strategic and financial benefits; business opportunities that diverge from our core business; our ability to achieve the expected improvements or financial returns we expect from our strategic initiatives; our ability to effectively manage and implement restructuring initiatives or other organizational changes; global climate change or other unexpected events, including global health crises, such as COVID-19; the proper functioning of our information technology and operational technology systems, including disruption or breaches of our information systems, such as cybersecurity attacks; the failure of our third-party vendors to provide effective support for many of the critical elements of our global information and operational technology infrastructure; our ability to recruit and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce; disruptions in our global supply chain, including product manufacturing and logistical services provided by our supplier partners; our ability to effectively manage real or perceived issues related to product quality, safety, corporate social responsibility and other reputational matters; our ability to protect our brand reputation and trademarks; 2 Table of Contents legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements imposed against us or our assets as a result of legal proceedings, claims and disputes; claims of infringement of intellectual property rights by third parties; improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners; changes to, or changes in interpretations of, current laws and regulations; uncertainty and inherent subjectivity related to transfer pricing regulations in the countries in which we operate; changes in tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities; and risks related to our incorporation in Ireland, including the possible effects on us of future legislation or adverse determinations by taxing authorities that could increase our tax burden. These events, risks and uncertainties are further described in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this report. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Allegion plc ("Allegion," "we," "us" or "the Company") is a leading global provider of security products and solutions that keep people and assets safe and secure in the places they live, learn, work and connect. We create peace of mind by pioneering safety and security with a vision of enabling seamless access and a safer world. Seamless access allows authorized, automated and safe passage and movement through spaces and places in the most efficient and frictionless manner possible. Central to our vision is partnering and developing ecosystems to create a flawless experience and enable an uninterrupted and secure flow of people and assets. We offer an extensive and versatile portfolio of security and access control products and solutions across a range of market-leading brands. Our experts across the globe deliver high-quality security hardware, software, services and systems, and we use our deep expertise to serve as trusted partners to end-users who seek customized solutions to their security needs. Allegion Principal Products and Services Door controls and systems Locks, locksets, portable locks and key systems Exit devices Electronic security products Software-enabled access control systems Time, attendance and workforce productivity systems Doors, accessories and other Services and software Access control security products and solutions are critical elements in every building and home. Many door openings are configured to maximize a room s particular form and function while also meeting local and national building and safety code requirements and end-user security needs. Most buildings have multiple door openings, each serving its own purpose and requiring different specific access control solutions. Each door must fit exactly within its frame, be prepared precisely for its hinges, synchronize with its specific lockset and corresponding latch and align with a specific key to secure the door. Moreover, with the increasing adoption of the Internet of Things ("IoT"), security products including credentials are increasingly linked electronically, integrated into software and popular consumer technology platforms and controlled with mobile applications, creating additional functionality and complexity. Seamless access capitalizes on the ability for multiple products and brands to work in tandem, allowing people and assets to move efficiently and safely by adapting access rights for various settings or use cases. These solutions can also provide insights on usage and traffic patterns to boost efficiency, improve hygiene of high-traffic areas and improve visitor, staff and tenant experiences. We believe our ability to deliver a wide range of solutions that can be custom configured to meet end-users security needs is a key driver of our success. We accomplish this with: Our extensive and versatile product and service portfolio, combined with our deep expertise, which enables us to deliver the right products and solutions to meet diverse security and functional specifications and to successfully and securely integrate into leading technologies and systems; Our consultative approach and expertise, which enables us to develop the most efficient and appropriate building security and access control specifications to fulfill the unique needs of our end-users and their partners, including architects, contractors, homebuilders and engineers; Our access to and management of key channels in the market, which is critical to delivering our products in an efficient and consistent manner; and Our enterprise excellence capabilities, including our global manufacturing operations and agile supply chain, which facilitate our ability to deliver specific product and system configurations to end-users and consumers worldwide, quickly and efficiently. We believe the security products industry will continue to benefit from several global macroeconomic trends, including: Expected growth in global electronic products and solutions as end-users adopt newer technologies in their facilities and homes; Heightened awareness of security and privacy requirements; Increased focus on touchless solutions that help promote a healthy environment; and The shift to a digital, interconnected and increasingly interoperable environment. We operate in and report financial results for two segments: Allegion Americas and Allegion International, the latter of which provides security products, services and solutions primarily throughout Europe, Asia and Oceania. We sell our products and solutions under the following brands: 4 Table of Contents 5 Table of Contents 6 Table of Contents We sell a wide range of security and access control solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities worldwide, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, retail, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our leading brands include CISA , Interflex , LCN , Schlage , SimonsVoss and Von Duprin . During the year ended December 31, 2023, we generated Net revenues of $3,650.8 million and Operating income of $708.4 million. History and Developments We were incorporated in Ireland on May 9, 2013, to hold the commercial and residential security businesses of what was then Ingersoll Rand plc ("Ingersoll Rand"). On December 1, 2013, we became a stand-alone public company after Ingersoll Rand completed the separation of these businesses from the rest of Ingersoll Rand via the transfer of these businesses from Ingersoll Rand to us and the issuance by us of ordinary shares directly to Ingersoll Rand s shareholders. Our security businesses have long and distinguished operating histories. Several of our brands were established more than 100 years ago, and many originally created their categories: Von Duprin, established in 1908, was awarded the first exit device patent; Schlage, established in 1920, was awarded the first patents granted for the cylindrical lock and the push button lock; LCN, established in 1926, created the first door closer; CISA, established in 1926, devised the first electronically controlled lock; SimonsVoss, established in 1995, created the first keyless digital transponder; and Stanley Access Technologies ("Access Technologies") patented the world's first hands-free door operator in 1931. We have built upon these founding legacies since our entry into the security products market through the acquisition of Schlage, Von Duprin and LCN in 1974. Today, we continue to develop, acquire and introduce innovative products. 7 Table of Contents In 2018, we announced the formation of Allegion Ventures to invest in and help accelerate the growth of companies that have innovative, digital-first technologies and products such as touchless access and workspace monitoring solutions that complement our core business solutions. Building on this success, in December 2021, Allegion Ventures announced a second fund with an additional allocation of $100 million to focus on investing in technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), video monitoring, machine learning and cybersecurity. For example, in 2023, Allegion Ventures made a $20 million investment in Ambient.ai, an AI powered computer vision intelligence company. Recent examples of successful product launches by Allegion are illustrated in the table below: Product Brands Year Innovation Electronic Locks, Locksets and Portable Locks Schlage, CISA, AXA 2021/2022/2023 Schlage Encode Plus Smart WiFi Deadbolt one of the first in the market to work with Apple home keys, allowing lock or unlock access using an iPhone or Apple Watch. Schlage Encode Smart WiFi Lever is for use in doors without a deadbolt; connects to home WiFi and pairs with the Schlage app. Narrow profile smart lock for Australia and New Zealand for use on aluminum and timber doors, utilizing the Schlage Breeze app (Schlage Artus). Next-generation smart entry door lock for the New Zealand market, operating on the Schlage Breeze app and offering a retrofit solution to Schlage S-6000 and competitor products (Schlage Resolute). Upgraded mortice lock platform for the Australia and New Zealand OEM market, providing increased functionality and improving installation time (Schlage Virtus). First CISA motorized lock solution for high-security connected smart doors (Domo Connexa), manageable in proximity and remotely using a mobile app. Electronic Key Systems and Access Control, Mobile and Web Applications SimonsVoss, CISA, Schlage, Interflex, ISONAS, Zentra 2021/2022/2023 SimonsVoss new option for wireless online connections to a virtual network (SmartHandle AX, SmartIntego) and a retrofit, no-drill locking option for lockers and furniture in schools, hospitals and industry facilities that integrates into the existing SimonsVoss digital ecosystem for offline and online access (SmartLocker). Expanded radio network technology to include European frequency band 868MHz and 920MHz technology. FSS1 High Security Door Position Sensors (Schlage) provide a high-security solution with adjustable anti-tamper features to help prevent against attacks through magnetic, electronic or physical means. Visitor management modules and managed service featuring a cloud-based solution of time recording (Interflex); cloud-hosted access control platform with real-time events, alerts and user-initiated door control (ISONAS). Pure Access enhanced support for mobile ready Schlage TB readers connected to an ISONAS IP-Bridge to allow seamless integration with Schlage Mobile Credentials and enhanced functionality for the NDE/LE wireless locks. Multi-family access control solution providing a turnkey, simple, secure and smart offering of software and integrated hardware covering all access needs for the building (Zentra). 8 Table of Contents Product Brands Year Innovation Mechanical Locks, Locksets, Portable Locks and Key Systems CISA, Schlage, Legge, Bricard, AXA, Kryptonite, Trelock 2021/2022/2023 Mortice self-locking system with a mono-point motorized lock variant, new multi-point exit mortice self-locking system for panic exit doors with narrow profile (CISA) and new platformed, modular replacement of cylindrical locks (Schlage ALX). Next generation of multi-function mortice locks, 991 Multi-Function Mortice Lock Series (Legge), allows easy conversions and anti-lockout function. New key override safety feature option on mortise locks (Schlage L Series). Six mechanical and two electrified options available. Large format interchangeable core options to fit competitive locksets. Bricard Evidence handle range for commercial and residential markets, with an exclusive and unique rose fixation and adjustment design, functionality and finishes. Electronic and Electrified Door Controls and Systems and Exit Devices Von Duprin, LCN, CISA, Stanley Access Technologies 2021/2022/2023 Security indicator (Von Duprin) for visual verification and lockdown. The -2SI security indicator provides at-a-glance verification of door status from inside the room. Also available as a retrofit conversion kit for existing 98/99 Series exit devices. Range of touchless solutions, including automatic operators, actuators and wireless transmitters (LCN). New 6400 Compact Series (LCN) low-energy automatic operator retrofit solution with actuators reduces the cost and complexity of touchless access and adds ADA accessibility. Enhancements to the already durable 4040XP (LCN) door closer, making it even easier to install and maintain. NA new automatic door/window solution for increased efficiencies for drive through restaurants (Stanley Access Technologies DuraGlide DT). Telescopic manual and automatic version of ICU doors providing the biggest clear door opening in the industry, proprietary handle design and the slimmest header (ProCare 8500). Doors, Accessories and Other TGP, AXA 2021/2022/2023 North America's first fire-rated Full-Lite Door System (TGP), certified to meet forced entry standards (TGP ASTM E2395). Smoke-rated partition featuring doors, sidelites/transoms and standalone windows suitable for enclosed elevator lobbies in multifamily buildings. It is comprised of glass, frames and hardware and is the first system fully tested to UL 1784 (TGP SmokeSafe Window Door System). Die-rolled steel profile swinging door with sidelite(s); North America s first fire-rated full-lite door system certified to forced-entry standards (TGP TGProtect FR System). 9 Table of Contents Industry and Competition We serve customers within institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Oceania. We expect the security products industry will continue to benefit from favorable trends such as increased concerns about safety and security, new attention on touchless solutions that help promote a healthy environment and technology-driven innovation that enables seamless access and a better user experience as people and assets traverse multiple locations and facilities. Further, we expect continued growth in connected security products and solutions as end-users continue to adopt newer technologies, including IoT and AI, in their facilities and single and multi-family homes. The security products markets are highly competitive and fragmented throughout the world, with a number of large multi-national companies and thousands of smaller regional and local companies. This high degree of fragmentation primarily reflects local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs. We believe our principal global competitors are Assa Abloy AB and dormakaba Group. We also face competition in various markets and product categories throughout the world, including Fortune Brands Innovations, Inc. in the North American residential market. As we move into more technologically advanced product categories, we may also compete against new, more specialized competitors and technology companies. Our success depends on a variety of factors, including brand and reputation, product breadth, innovation, integration with popular technology platforms, quality and delivery capabilities, price and service capabilities. As many of our businesses sell through distribution, our success also depends on building and partnering with a strong channel network. Although price often serves as an important customer decision point, we also compete based on the breadth, innovation and quality of our products and solutions, our ability to custom-configure solutions to meet individual end-user requirements and our global supply chain. Products and Services We offer the following extensive and versatile portfolio of security and access control products and solutions across a range of market-leading brands: Locks, locksets, portable locks and key systems : A broad array of cylindrical, tubular and mortise door locksets, security levers and master key systems that are used to protect and control access and a range of portable security products, including bicycle, small vehicle and travel locks; Electronic security products and access control systems : A broad range of electrified locks, electrified door closers and exit devices, access control products and systems, credentials and credential readers and accessories, including IoT, Bluetooth Low Energy, Power over Ethernet and cloud-based solutions; Time, attendance and workforce productivity systems : These products are designed to help business customers manage and monitor workforce access, attendance and employee scheduling; Door controls and systems and exit devices : An extensive portfolio of life-safety products and solutions generally installed on fire doors and facility entrances and exits. Exit devices, also known as panic hardware, provide rapid egress to allow building occupants to exit safely in an emergency. Door controls and systems include mechanical door closers, automatic door operators, as well as high-performance interior and storefront door systems. In addition, we offer a full range of automatic entrance solutions, including sliding, swing, folding and ICU doors, as well as an array of sensors, controls and security options for commercial and institutional buildings; Doors, accessories and other : A portfolio of hollow metal, glass and specialty doors, as well as a variety of additional security products and components, including hinges, door pulls, door stops, bike lights, louvers, weather stripping, thresholds and other accessories, as well as certain bathroom fittings and accessibility aids; and Services and software : Our Access Technologies business offers extensive planned inspection, maintenance and repair services for its automatic entrance solutions throughout the U.S. and Canada. Additionally, we offer software as a service ("SaaS") offerings throughout the U.S. and internationally, including access control, IoT integration and workforce management solutions through our Interflex business. We also offer ongoing aftermarket services, design and installation offerings and locksmith services in select locations. Customers We sell most of our products and solutions through distribution and retail channels, including specialty distribution, e-commerce and wholesalers. We have built a network of channel partners that help our customers choose the right solution to meet their security needs and help commercial and institutional end-users fulfill and install orders. We also sell through a variety of retail channels, including large do-it-yourself home improvement centers, multiple online and e-commerce platforms, as well as small, specialty showroom outlets. We work with our retail partners on developing marketing and merchandising strategies to maximize their sales per square foot of shelf space. Through a few of our businesses, most notably our Access Technologies business, Interflex and our Global Portable Security brands, we also provide products and services directly to end-users. Our 10 largest customers represented approximately 25% of our total Net revenues in 2023. No single customer represented 10% or more of our total Net revenues in 2023. 10 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing In markets where we sell through commercial and institutional distribution channels, we employ sales professionals around the world who work with a combination of end-users, security professionals, architects, contractors, engineers and distribution partners to develop specific, custom-configured solutions to meet our end-users needs. Our field sales professionals are assisted by specification writers who work with architects, engineers and consultants to help design door openings and security systems to meet end-users functional, aesthetic and regulatory requirements. Both groups are supported by dedicated customer care and technical sales-support specialists worldwide. We also support our sales efforts with a variety of marketing efforts, including trade-specific advertising, cooperative distributor merchandising, digital marketing and marketing at a variety of industry trade shows. In markets where we sell through retail and homebuilder distribution channels, we have teams of sales, merchandising and marketing professionals who help drive brand and product awareness through our channel partners and to consumers. We utilize a variety of advertising and marketing strategies, including traditional consumer media, retail merchandising, digital marketing, retail promotions and builder and consumer trade shows, to support these teams. We also work actively with several industry bodies around the world to help promote effective and consistent safety and security open platform standards. For example, we are members of the American Association of Automatic Door Manufacturers (AAADM), Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association (BHMA), Connectivity Standards Alliance (CSA), Construction Specification Institute, Door and Hardware Institute (DHI), FiRa Consortium, National Association of State Fire Marshals (NASFM), Partner Alliance for Safer Schools (PASS), Physical Security Interoperability Alliance (PSIA), Security Industry Association (SIA), Security Technology Alliance, Z-Wave Alliance, The European Federation of Associations of Locks and Builders Hardware Manufacturers (ARGE), ASSOFERMA (Italy), BHE (Germany), Door Hardware Federation (UK), Open Security Standards Association (Germany) and UNIQ (France). Production and Distribution We manufacture products in several geographic markets around the world. We operate 31 principal production and assembly facilities 18 in our Allegion Americas segment and 13 in our Allegion International segment. We own 16 of these facilities and lease the others. Our strategy is to produce in the region of use, wherever appropriate, to allow us to be closer to the end-user and increase efficiency and timely product delivery. Much of our U.S. based residential portfolio is manufactured in the Baja region of Mexico under the Maquiladora, Manufacturing and Export Services Industry ("IMMEX") program. In managing our network of production and assembly facilities, we focus on continuous improvement in customer experience, employee health and safety, productivity, resource utilization and operational excellence. We distribute our products through a broad network of channel partners. In addition, third-party manufacturing and logistics providers perform certain manufacturing, storage and distribution services for us to support certain parts of our manufacturing and distribution network. Raw Materials We continue to support our region-of-use production strategy with corresponding region-of-use supplier partners for much of our supply base. Our global and regional commodity teams work with production leadership, product management and materials management teams to source materials for production. Where appropriate, we may enter fixed-cost contracts to lower overall costs. We purchase a wide range of raw materials, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, as well as other parts and components, such as electronic components, to support our production facilities. In late 2022, supply chain disruptions experienced in prior years moderated and the availability of many raw material categories improved. The prior actions taken to create supply flexibility and improved safety stocks permitted reliable supply during the year. See "Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a more detailed discussion of these trends and challenges. Intellectual Property Intellectual property, inclusive of certain patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, is important to our business. We create, protect and enforce our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to try to ensure the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe such distinctive marks are an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our products from others. We consider our CISA, Interflex, LCN, Schlage, SimonsVoss, Von Duprin and other associated trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in a numbe