Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 Part II Item 5. Market For Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s 44 Consolidated Statement of Income 48 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 49 Consolidated Balance Sheet 50 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 51 Consolidated Statement of Equity 52 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 53 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 113 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B. Other Information 114 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 115 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 115 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 115 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 116 Exhibit Index 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary (optional) 120 Signatures 121 3 Forward-Looking Statements Unless otherwise indicated, references to "Amcor," the "Company," "we," "our," and "us" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Amcor plc and its consolidated subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain statements that are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified with words like "believe," "expect," "target", "project", "may," "could," "would," "approximately," "possible," "will," "should," "expect," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "estimate," "potential," "outlook" or "continue," the negative of these words, other terms of similar meaning or the use of future dates. Such statements are based on the current expectations of the management of Amcor and are qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of risks and uncertainties. None of Amcor or any of its respective directors, executive officers or advisors, provide any representation, assurance or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements will actually occur. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to: The continued financial and operational impacts of the 2019 Novel Coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic on Amcor and its customers, suppliers, employees and the geographic markets in which it and its customers operate (see Part II, "Item 1A. - Risk Factors" for more information about the risks to the Company due to COVID-19); changes in consumer demand patterns and customer requirements in numerous industries; the loss of key customers, a reduction in their production requirements or consolidation among key customers; significant competition in the industries and regions in which we operate; the failure to successfully integrate acquisitions in the expected time frame; the inability to expand our current business effectively through either organic growth, including by product innovation, or acquisitions; challenges to or the loss of our intellectual property rights; challenging current and future global economic conditions; impact of operating internationally; price fluctuations or shortages in the availability of raw materials, energy and other inputs, which could adversely affect our business; production, supply and other commercial risks, including counterparty credit risks, which may be exacerbated in times of economic downturn; a failure in our information technology systems; an inability to attract and retain key personnel; costs and liabilities related to current and future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; labor disputes; the possibility that the phase out of the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") causes our interest expense to increase; foreign exchange rate risk; an increase in interest rates; a downgrade in our credit rating that could increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations; a failure to hedge effectively against adverse fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates; a significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets; our need to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future; an inability of our insurance policies, including our use of a captive insurance company, to provide adequate protection against all of the risks we face; litigation or regulatory developments; changing government regulations in environmental, health, and safety matters; and our ability to develop and successfully introduce new products and to develop, acquire and retain intellectual property rights. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expected are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in the sections entitled "