Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Removed and Reserved Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 1358 ) 47 Consolidated Statements of Income 49 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 50 Consolidated Balance Sheets 51 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 52 Consolidated Statements of Equity 53 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 107 Item 9B. Other Information 107 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 107 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 108 Item 11. Executive Compensation 109 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 109 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 109 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 109 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 110 Exhibit Index 110 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary (optional) 112 Signatures 113 3 Forward-Looking Statements Unless otherwise indicated, references to "Amcor," the "Company," "we," "our," and "us" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Amcor plc and its consolidated subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain statements that are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified with words like "believe," "expect," "target," "project," "may," "could," "would," "approximately," "possible," "will," "should," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "commit," "estimate," "potential," "ambitions," "outlook," or "continue," the negative of these words, other terms of similar meaning, or the use of future dates. Such statements are based on the current expectations of the management of Amcor and are qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of risks and uncertainties. None of Amcor or any of its respective directors, executive officers, or advisors, provide any representation, assurance, or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements will actually occur. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to: Changes in consumer demand patterns and customer requirements in numerous industries; the loss of key customers, a reduction in their production requirements, or consolidation among key customers; significant competition in the industries and regions in which we operate; the inability to expand our current business effectively through either organic growth, including by product innovation, or acquisitions; challenging current and future global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions; impact of operating internationally, including negative impacts from the Russia-Ukraine conflict; price fluctuations or shortages in the availability of raw materials, energy and other inputs, which could adversely affect our business; production, supply, and other commercial risks, including counterparty credit risks, which may be exacerbated in times of economic volatility; global health outbreaks, including the Coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19"); an inability to attract and retain key personnel; costs and liabilities related to current and future environment, health and safety laws and regulations; labor disputes; risks related to climate change; failures or disruptions in information technology systems; cybersecurity risks, which could disrupt our operations or risk of loss of our sensitive business information; a significant increase in our indebtedness or a downgrade in our credit rating could reduce our operating flexibility and increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations; foreign exchange rate risk; rising interest rates that increase our borrowing costs on our variable rate indebtedness and could have other negative impacts; a significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets; failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting; an inability of our insurance policies, including our use of a captive insurance company, to provide adequate protection against all of the risks we face; an inability to defend our intellectual property rights or intellectual property infringement claims against us; litigation, including product liability claims, or regulatory developments; increasing scrutiny and changing expectations with respect to our Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") practices resulting in additional costs or exposure to additional risks; changing government regulations in environmental, health, and safety matters; and changes in tax laws or changes in our geographic mix of earnings. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expected are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in the sections entitled "