Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [ Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 1358 ) 47 Consolidated Statements of Income 49 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 50 Consolidated Balance Sheets 51 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 52 Consolidated Statements of Equity 53 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 107 Item 9B. Other Information 107 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 107 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 108 Item 11. Executive Compensation 109 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 109 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 109 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 109 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 110 Exhibit Index 110 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 114 Signatures 115 3 Forward-Looking Statements Unless otherwise indicated, references to "Amcor," the "Company," "we," "our," and "us" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Amcor plc and its consolidated subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain statements that are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified with words like "believe," "expect," "target," "project," "may," "could," "would," "approximately," "possible," "will," "should," "intend," "plan," "anticipate," "commit," "estimate," "potential," "ambitions," "outlook," or "continue," the negative of these words, other terms of similar meaning, or the use of future dates. Such statements are based on the current expectations of the management of Amcor and are qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of risks and uncertainties. Neither of Amcor nor any of its respective directors, executive officers, or advisors, provide any representation, assurance, or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements will actually occur. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to: Changes in consumer demand patterns and customer requirements in numerous industries; the loss of key customers, a reduction in their production requirements, or consolidation among key customers; significant competition in the industries and regions in which we operate; an inability to expand our current business effectively through either organic growth, including product innovation, investments, or acquisitions; challenging global economic conditions; impacts of operating internationally; price fluctuations or shortages in the availability of raw materials, energy and other inputs, which could adversely affect our business; production, supply, and other commercial risks, including counterparty credit risks, which may be exacerbated in times of economic volatility; pandemics, epidemics, or other disease outbreaks; an inability to attract, motivate, and retain our skilled workforce and manage key transitions; labor disputes and an inability to renew collective bargaining agreements at acceptable terms; physical impacts of climate change; cybersecurity risks, which could disrupt our operations or risk of loss of our sensitive business information; failures or disruptions in our information technology systems which could disrupt our operations, compromise customer, employee, supplier, and other data; a significant increase in our indebtedness or a downgrade in our credit rating could reduce our operating flexibility and increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations; rising interest rates that increase our borrowing costs on our variable rate indebtedness and could have other negative impacts; foreign exchange rate risk; a significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets; a failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting; an inability of our insurance policies, including our use of a captive insurance company, to provide adequate protection against all of the risks we face; an inability to defend our intellectual property rights or intellectual property infringement claims against us; litigation, including product liability claims or litigation related to Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") matters, or regulatory developments; increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, customers, suppliers, and governments with respect to our ESG practices and commitments resulting in additional costs or exposure to additional risks; changing ESG government regulations including climate-related rules; changing environmental, health, and safety laws; and changes in tax laws or changes in our geographic mix of earnings. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expected are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in the sections entitled "Item 1A. - Risk Factors" and "Item 7. - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and in Amcor s subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. Amcor assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to update the information contained in this report. All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. 4 PART I Item 1. - Business The Company Amcor plc (ARBN 630 385 278) is a public limited company incorporated under the Laws of the Bailiwick of Jersey. Our history dates back more than 150 years, with origins in both Australia and the United States of America. Today, we are a global leader in developing and producing responsible packaging solutions across a variety of materials for food, beverage, pharmaceutical, medical, home and personal-care, and other products. Our global product innovation and sustainability expertise enable us to solve packaging challenges around the world every day, producing a range of flexible packaging, rigid packaging, cartons, and closures, that are more functional, appealing, and cost effective for our customers and their consumers and importantly, more sustainable for the environment. Expertise across Packaging Materials We believe that we are uniquely positioned to offer a variety of packaging solutions with a wide, differentiated portfolio of products enabled by our constant innovation and close partnerships with our customers. Our packaging expertise covers all main packaging materials including paper, aluminum, polymer resins, recycled, and bio-based materials and the sustainable use of recyclable materials. Differentiated, Responsible Packaging Solutions Behind every one of our products stands a unique combination of technical know-how, business experience, and expertise. We work closely with our customers to identify feasible, high-performance, responsible packaging solutions based on their unique needs. Where solutions do not currently exist, we work to innovate new ones. Sustainability is comprehensively embedded across our business and is one of our most important and exciting opportunities for growth. For years, Amcor has been an industry leader in driving progress toward a circular economy for packaging. We aspire to improve the quality of lives, protect ecosystems, and preserve natural resources for future generations by offering a unique range of responsible packaging solutions, leveraging our global scale, reach, and expertise to meet our customers growing sustainability expectations. In January 2018, we became the world s first packaging company to pledge that all our packaging would be designed to be recyclable, compostable, or reusable by 2025 and also committed to increasing the amount of recycled materials we use. In November 2022, we further increased our target for use of recycled materials to 30% by 2030. We continue making progress toward these commitments and leading in the development of a responsible packaging value chain through our innovations and partnerships. We have identified a clear path to meeting our sustainability ambitions and those of our customers by focusing on the three elements of responsible packaging product innovation, consumer participation, and waste management infrastructure. For more information, see "Sustainability and Innovation in this section. Business Strategy Strategy Our business strategy consists of three components: a focused portfolio, differentiated capabilities, and our aspiration to be THE leading global packaging company. To fulfill our aspiration, we are determined to win for our customers, employees, shareholders, and the environment. Focused portfolio Our portfolio of businesses share certain important characteristics: A focus on primary packaging for fast-moving consumer goods and industrial applications, good industry structure, attractive relative growth, and 5 multiple paths for us to win through our leadership position, scale, and ability to differentiate our product offering through innovation. These criteria have led us to the focused portfolio of strong businesses we have today across: flexible and rigid packaging, specialty cartons, and closures. Differentiated capabilities "The Amcor Way" describes the capabilities deployed consistently across Amcor that enable us to get leverage across our portfolio: Talent, Commercial Excellence, Operational Leadership, Innovation, and Cash and Capital Discipline. Our values of Safety, Integrity, Collaboration, Accountability, and Results and Outperformance guide our behavior, driving our winning aspiration to be THE leading global packaging company. Shareholder value creation Through our portfolio of focused businesses and differentiated capabilities, we generate strong cash flow and redeploy cash to consistently create superior value for shareholders. The nature of our consumer and healthcare end markets means that, over time, volatility should be relatively low, measured on a constant currency basis. Long-term value creation has been strong and consistent and has reflected a combination of dividends, organic growth in the base business, and using free cash flow to pursue targeted acquisitions and/or returning cash to shareholders via share buybacks. Segment Information Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 280, "Segment Reporting," establishes the standards for reporting information about segments in financial statements. In applying the criteria set forth in ASC 280, we have determined we have two reportable segments, Flexibles and Rigid Packaging. The reportable segments produce flexible packaging, rigid packaging, specialty cartons, and closure products, which are sold to customers participating in a range of attractive end use areas throughout Europe, North America, Latin America, Africa, and the Asia Pacific regions. Refer to Note 20, "Segments," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for financial information about reportable segments. Flexibles Segment Our Flexibles Segment develops and supplies flexible packaging globally. With approximately 35,000 employees at 160 significant manufacturing and support facilities in 36 countries as of June 30, 2024, the Flexibles Segment is one of the world's largest suppliers of polymer resin, aluminum, and fiber based flexible packaging. In fiscal year 2024, Flexibles accounted for approximately 76% of consolidated net sales. Rigid Packaging Segment Our Rigid Packaging Segment manufactures rigid packaging containers and related products in the Americas. As of June 30, 2024, the Rigid Packaging Segment employed approximately 5,000 employees at 52 significant manufacturing and support facilities in 11 countries. In fiscal year 2024, Rigid Packaging accounted for approximately 24% of consolidated net sales. Marketing, Distribution, and Competition Our sales are made through a variety of distribution channels, but predominantly through our direct sales force. Sales offices and plants are located primarily throughout Europe, North America, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific regions to provide prompt and economical service to thousands of customers. Our technically trained sales force is supported by product development engineers, design technicians, field service technicians, and customer service teams. We did not have sales to a single customer that exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales in the last three fiscal years. The major markets in which we sell our products historically have been, and continue to be, highly competitive. Areas of competition include service, sustainability, innovation, quality, and price. We consider ourselves to be a significant participant in the markets in which we operate. Competitors include AptarGroup, Inc., Ball Corporation, Berry Global Group, Inc, CCL Industries Inc., Crown Holdings, Inc., Graphic Packaging Holding Company, Huhtamaki Oyj, International Paper Company, Mayr-Melnhof Karton AG, O-I Glass, Inc., Sealed Air Corporation, Silgan Holdings Inc., and Sonoco Products Company, and a variety of privately held companies. 6 Backlog Working capital fluctuates throughout the year in relation to business volume and other marketplace conditions. We maintain inventory levels that provide a reasonable balance between obtaining raw materials at favorable prices and maintaining adequate inventory levels to enable us to fulfill our commitment to promptly fill customer orders. Manufacturing backlogs are not a significant factor in the markets in which we operate. Raw Materials Polymer resins and films, paper, inks, solvents, adhesives, aluminum, and chemicals constitute the major raw materials we use. These are purchased from a variety of global industry sources, and we are not significantly dependent on any one supplier for our raw materials. While we have experienced industry-wide shortages of certain raw materials in the past, we have been able to manage supply disruptions by working closely with our suppliers and customers. Supply shortages, along with other factors, can lead and have in the past led to increased raw material price volatility. Increases in the price of raw materials are generally able to be passed on to customers including through contractual price mechanisms over time. We manage the risks associated with our supply chain and have generally been able to maintain adequate raw materials through relationship management, inventory management, and evaluation of alternative sources when practical. For more information, see "Item 1A. - Raw Materials Price fluctuations or shortages in the availability of raw materials, energy, and other inputs could adversely affect our business. Intellectual Property We are the owner or licensee of more than a thousand United States and other country patents and patent applications that relate to our products, manufacturing processes, and equipment. We have a number of trademarks and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries. We also keep certain technology and processes as trade secrets. Our patents, licenses, and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. However, the loss of any single patent or license alone would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations as a whole or those of our reportable segments. Patents, patent applications, and license agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms, or otherwise. Sustainability and Innovation Sustainability is comprehensively embedded across our business, from the investments we are making in packaging innovation and design, to our global collaboration strategy, to the work we undertake within our own operations and with our upstream and downstream partners to develop a more responsible packaging value chain. We believe there will always be a role for the primary packaging we produce to preserve food, beverages, and healthcare products, protect consumers, and promote brands. Consumers also want cost effective, convenient, and easy to use packaging with a reduced environmental footprint and a responsible end of life solution. We have identified a clear path to provide food, beverages, and healthcare products to people around the world in a more sustainable way and meet our sustainability ambitions and those of our customers, by focusing on three key elements of responsible packaging: product innovation, consumer participation, and waste management infrastructure. We believe our commitment to responsible packaging is integral to our success. Our responsible packaging solutions address both how the product is made, as well as what happens after the consumer uses it, offering a wide variety of options to advance sustainability while meeting our customers specific packaging needs. Innovation is central to Amcor s approach to sustainability and we spend approximately $100 million a year on research and development ("R D"), not including ongoing investment in incremental continuous improvements. We are highly regarded for our innovation capabilities and have more than a thousand active patents, as well as a global network of Innovation Centers focused on bringing advanced packaging technologies and more sustainable material science to our markets around the world. We solve packaging challenges by developing differentiated products, services, and processes to protect our customers' products and fulfill the needs of the consumers who rely on them. Drawing on our unrivaled heritage in design, science, and manufacturing, over a thousand Amcor R D professionals and engineers are constantly innovating across new materials, formats, functions, and technologies. We collaborate with like-minded partners, including customers and suppliers, in pursuit of innovative solutions to address some of the world s most urgent challenges, including increasing recycling and reuse and reducing our environmental impacts. We also partner with non-governmental organizations, promising startups, and cross-industry initiatives and bodies. These partnerships enable us to learn, experience other perspectives, share our expertise, and expand our innovation. With our 7 partners, we advocate for sound global design standards, better waste management infrastructure, and higher levels of consumer participation in recycling that will be required to develop a true circular economy for packaging. We know that our environmental footprint also extends beyond the products we create and we strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations. For more than a decade, our EnviroAction program has helped us significantly improve how we manage energy, greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions, water, and waste in our manufacturing locations. In January 2022, we further increased our ambition by committing to set science-based targets to reduce GHG emissions and achieve net zero emissions by 2050. We submitted our near-term science-based targets in fiscal year 2023, and they were validated by the Science Based Targets initiative in fiscal year 2024. The new targets build on years of progress under our EnviroAction program. We also submitted our long-term net-zero science-based targets in fiscal year 2024 and expect they will be validated by the Science Based Targets Initiative in calendar year 2024. To support our ongoing process toward achieving science-based targets, we have developed a decarbonization strategy which focuses on five key GHG emission levers: renewable electricity, supply chain footprint reduction, recycled materials, product redesign, and operational efficiency. With our global scale, deep industry experience, and strong capabilities, we believe that we are uniquely positioned to lead the way in the design and development of more sustainable packaging, and this is one of the most important and exciting growth opportunities for Amcor. Governmental Laws and Regulations Our operations and the real property we own, or lease, are subject to broad governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations by multiple jurisdictions. These laws and regulations pertain to employee health and safety, the discharge of certain materials into the environment, handling and disposition of waste, cleanup of contaminated soil and ground water, other rules to control pollution and manage natural resources, and other government regulations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable health and safety laws, environmental laws and regulations based on the execution of our Environmental, Health, and Safety Management System and regular audits of those processes and systems. However, we cannot predict with certainty that we will not, in the future, incur liability with respect to noncompliance with health and safety laws, environmental laws and regulations due to contamination of sites formerly or currently owned or operated by us (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites) or the off-site disposal of regulated materials, or other broad government regulations which could be significant. In addition, these laws and regulations are constantly changing, and we cannot always anticipate these changes. Refer to Note 19, "Contingencies and Legal Proceedings," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about legal proceedings. For a more detailed description of the various laws and regulations that affect our business, see "Item 1A. - Risk Factors." Seasonal Factors Our business and operations of each of the reportable segments is subject to moderate seasonality with demand usually increasing towards the end of our fiscal year due to increased demand for beverage and food products in certain markets. Historically, cash flow from operations has been lower in the first half of the fiscal year, and higher in the second half of the fiscal year, due to moderate seasonality, working capital requirements, and the timing of certain cash payments made in the first half of the year, including incentive compensation. Research and Development Refer to section "Sustainability and Innovation" within "Item 1. - Business" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies," of the notes to consolidated financial statements, for further information about our research and development activities, expenditures, and policies. 8 Human Capital Management Overview Amcor s aspiration is to be THE leading global packaging company'. Our people are core to the achievement of our aspiration. We believe we are winning for our people when they feel safe, engaged, and are developing as part of a high-performing, global team. We strive to build an outperformance culture in which we consistently deliver results and strive to surpass expectations. At Amcor, we are stronger because of the diverse strengths, styles, cultures, and experiences of our people. We aim to create inclusive working environments to ensure each colleague feels valued, treated with respect, encouraged to speak, and empowered to be their best. As of June 30, 2024, we had approximately 41,000 employees, including part-time and temporary workers, worldwide, with approximately 31% located in North America, 29% located in Europe, 21% located in Latin America, and 19% located in the Asia Pacific region. Collective bargaining agreements cover approximately 43% of our workforce. As of June 30, 2024, approximately 3% of our employees were working under expired contracts and approximately 20% were covered under collective bargaining agreements that expire within one year. Health and Safety Safety is a core value at Amcor, as well as an integral component in our global Health and Safety programs. We take care of ourselves and each other, so everyone returns home safely every day. We champion a safe and healthy workplace, establish key accountabilities at all levels of the organization, and aspire to achieve a true culture of care and an injury-free Amcor. All our facilities are subject to global Environment, Health, and Safety ("EHS") standards which serve as blueprints for a safe and healthy workplace. We also have established policies, procedures, and training intended to minimize risks to people, property, and reputation. Our Board of Directors receives monthly reports on health and safety performance and compliance with our global EHS standards. During fiscal year 2024, we reduced the number of injuries by 12% and 73% of our sites were injury-free. Our Total Recordable Incident Rate ("TRIR") which is an annual rate of workplace injuries that we use to track our safety efforts, was 0.27 in fiscal year 2024, an improvement over fiscal year 2023 and reflecting a better performance than the industry average. Talent Management and Development At Amcor, we are dedicated to attracting, developing, engaging, and retaining the best talent to deliver our 'Winning Aspiration' and ensure a strong succession pipeline for the future. Our fiscal years' 2023-2027 Human Capital Strategy is focused on ensuring that we have the right people in the right jobs at the right time to drive our growth agenda. We recognize that we grow our business by developing our people and placing people at the center of what we do. Our HR Strategy aims to create an exceptional employee experience through a range of ongoing initiatives focused on talent. We continue to focus on attracting, developing, engaging, and retaining the best talent and strengthening the Company s succession pipeline for the future. Supported by our employment value proposition, we also undertake a variety of recruitment strategies to attract top talent. We have a range of executive development, leadership training, education, and awareness programs to help employees progress across all functions and experience levels. Examples of these global leadership programs include our Executive Development program ( EDP ) which targets our most senior leaders and provides them an immersive experience in strategy development and strategic talent management. We also have our Senior Leader Development program ("SLDP") focusing on developing strategic management skills and inclusive leadership. Additionally, we also deploy systems and processes to ensure our people have clear goals and are empowered to achieve them. Through performance management, we align these goals to business targets, providing line of sight so each employee understands how they contribute to our success. Through formal reviews, performance coaching, and feedback, our leaders implement a rigorous cycle to foster talent. Diversity, Equity Inclusion ("DE I") At Amcor, we re committed to providing an inclusive environment that empowers us to achieve our full potential. Becoming THE leading global packaging company requires us to create a culture in which everyone feels encouraged to speak and compelled to listen. 9 Amcor values the diverse experience, strengths, styles, nationalities, and cultures of all our people. Our diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy is based on four key pillars: Talent - Supporting the growth and diversification of our talent through mentoring and our hiring practices. Under the Talent Pillar, the Amcor Leadership Mentoring Program is ongoing for the second year. The program aims to develop emerging female talent by connecting them with senior leaders as well as through workshops and networking opportunities. In addition, we are working towards diversifying our global talent pool by reducing unconscious bias from talent attraction and development through a number of initiatives. Community - Promoting our employee resource groups and local grassroots plant initiatives. Under the Community Pillar, we have established a global network of DE I representatives from all business groups and corporate functions to come together, share their experiences, and support the execution of our agenda across Amcor. The network also shares regular updates with the Global Management Team. Our Employee Resource Groups are an important part of the Community Pillar that support the DE I strategy through local initiatives relevant to the countries and regions they are located in. Awareness and Training - Providing more coordination and information around training opportunities. Under the Awareness and Training Pillar, our DE I training calendar provides an overview of opportunities for Amcor colleagues to build knowledge and capabilities, aligning the entire organization on DE I topics. Business groups organize these sessions in a variety of formats, including live small-group seminars, large-group webinars, and e-learnings. Participants also receive supporting materials to better enable post-training reinforcement of learnings, including tips and reflection checks. Data and Reporting - Communicating our work and progr