ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 13 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 ITEM 2. Properties 27 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 28 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II 31 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 33 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 41 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 81 ITEM 9B. Other Information 82 PART III 83 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 83 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 83 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 83 PART IV 84 ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 84 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 SIGNATURES . 90 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, anticipates, or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: possible impact of future accounting rules on AMD s consolidated financial statements; demand for AMD s products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMD s expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; sales patterns of AMD s PC products and semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products for game consoles; international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future; the balance of the uncertain tax benefits in the next 12 months; that AMD s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (Secured Revolving Facility) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Credit Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMD s operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMD s ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD s expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the potential liability related to AMD s current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; any amounts in addition to what has been already accrued by AMD for future remediation costs under clean-up orders will not be material; we expect to file future patent applications in both the United States and abroad on significant inventions as we deem appropriate; anticipated ongoing and increased in costs related to enhancing and implementing information security controls; revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied which will be recognized over the next 12 months; all unbilled accounts receivables are expected to be billed and collected within 12 months; and a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMD s revenue in the future. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors and the Financial Condition section set forth in Part II, Item 7-Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD A, and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. General We are a global semiconductor company primarily offering: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated into an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete and integrated graphics processing units (GPUs), data center and professional GPUs, and development services; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property (IP) portfolio. For financial information about geographic areas and for segment information with respect to revenues and operating results, refer to the information set forth in Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. References in this report to 2019 , 2018 and 2017 refer to the fiscal year unless explicitly stated otherwise. 1 Additional Information Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on May 1, 1969 and became a publicly held company in 1972. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol AMD . Our mailing address and executive offices are located at 2485 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 749-4000. The SEC s website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to AMD, we, us, management, our or the Company mean Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, Athlon, EPYC, FirePro, FreeSync, Geode, Opteron, Radeon, Ryzen, Threadripper, Infinity Fabric, and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft, Windows, DirectX, Xbox 360 and Xbox One are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. PCIe is a registered trademark of PCI-SIG Corporation. Chromebook and Stadia are trademarks of Google Inc. Cray is a trademark of Cray Inc. and is registered in the United States and other countries. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries. PlayStation is a registered trademark or trademark of Sony Interactive Entertainment, Inc.. Arm is a registered trademark of ARM Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the US and/or elsewhere. Vulkan and the Vulkan logo are registered trademarks of Khronos Group Inc. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. Website Access to Our SEC Filings and Corporate Governance Documents On the Investor Relations pages of our Website, http://ir.amd.com , we post links to our filings with the SEC, our Principles of Corporate Governance, our Code of Ethics for our executive officers, all other senior finance executives and certain representatives from legal and internal audit, our Worldwide Standards of Business Conduct, which applies to our Board of Directors and all of our employees, and the charters of the Audit and Finance, Compensation and Leadership Resources, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Innovation and Technology committees of our Board of Directors. Our filings with the SEC are posted as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You can also obtain copies of these documents by writing to us at: Corporate Secretary, AMD, 7171 Southwest Parkway, M/S B100.T, Austin, Texas 78735, or emailing us at: Corporate.Secretary@amd.com . All of these documents and filings are available free of charge. If we make substantive amendments to our Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar functions, we intend to disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our Website. The information contained on our Website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report. Our Industry We are a global semiconductor company. Semiconductors are components used in a variety of electronic products and systems. An integrated circuit (IC) is a semiconductor device that consists of many interconnected transistors on a single chip. Since the invention of the transistor in 1948, improvements in IC process and design technologies have led to the development of smaller, more complex and more reliable ICs at a lower cost-per-function. Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics Markets Central Processing Unit (CPU) . A microprocessor is an IC that serves as the CPU of a computer. It generally consists of hundreds of millions or billions of transistors that process data in a serial fashion and control other devices in the system, acting as the brain of the computer. The performance of a microprocessor is a critical factor impacting the performance of computing and entertainment platforms, such as desktop PCs, notebooks and workstations. The principal elements used to measure CPU performance are work-per-cycle (or how many instructions are executed per cycle), clock speed (representing the rate at which a CPU s internal logic operates, measured in units of gigahertz, or billions of cycles per second) and power consumption. Other factors impacting microprocessor performance include the process technology used in its manufacture, the number and type of cores, the ability of the cores to process multi-thread or process multiple 2 instructions simultaneously, the bit size of its instruction set, memory size and data access speed. Developments in IC design and manufacturing process technologies have resulted in significant advances in microprocessor performance. Since businesses and consumers require greater performance from their computer systems due to the growth of digital data and increasingly sophisticated software applications, multi-core microprocessors offer enhanced overall system performance and efficiency because computing tasks can be spread across two or more processing cores, each of which can execute a task at full speed. Multi-core microprocessors can simultaneously increase performance of a computer system without greatly increasing the total amount of power consumed and the total amount of heat emitted. Businesses and consumers also require computer systems with improved power management technology, which helps them to reduce the power consumption of their computer systems, enables smaller and more portable form factors, and can lower the total cost of ownership. Graphics Processing Unit (GPU). A GPU is a programmable logic chip that helps render images, animations and video and is increasingly being used to handle general computing tasks. GPUs are located in plug-in cards, as a discrete processor or in a chip on the motherboard, or in the same chip as the CPU as part of an accelerated processing unit (APU) or System-on-Chip (SoC). GPUs on stand-alone cards or discrete GPUs on the motherboard typically access their own memory, while GPUs in the chipset or CPU chip share main memory with the CPU. GPUs perform parallel operations on data to render images for a video display and are essential to presenting computer generated images on that display, decoding and rendering animations and displaying video. The more sophisticated the GPU, the higher the resolution and the faster and smoother moving objects can be displayed on video display or in a virtual environment (e.g. virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR)). In addition to graphics processing, GPUs are used to perform parallel operations on multiple sets of data and are increasingly used to perform vector processing for non-graphics applications that require repetitive computations such as supercomputing, deep learning, artificial and machine intelligence, blockchain and various other applications (e.g., cryptocurrency mining and autonomous driving). Accelerated Processing Unit (APU). Consumers increasingly demand computing devices with improved end-user experience, system performance and energy efficiency. Consumers also continue to demand thinner and lighter mobile devices, with better performance and longer battery life. We believe that a computing architecture that optimizes the use of its components can provide these improvements. An APU is a processing unit that integrates a CPU and a GPU onto one chip (or one piece of silicon), along with, in some cases, other special-purpose components. This integration enhances system performance by offloading selected tasks to the best-suited component (i.e., the CPU or the GPU) to optimize component use, increasing the speed of data flow between the CPU and GPU through shared memory and allowing the GPU to function as both a graphics engine and an application accelerator. Having the CPU and GPU on the same chip also typically improves energy efficiency by, for example, eliminating connections between discrete chips. System-on-Chip (SoC) . An SoC is a type of IC with a CPU, GPU and other components, such as a memory controller and peripheral management, comprising a complete computing system on a single chip. By combining all of these elements as an SoC, system performance and energy efficiency is improved, similar to an APU. Chipset. A chipset is a generic term referring to a device or a collection of devices that allow the microprocessor to connect to a wider range of peripheral devices in the system (such as storage, optical drives, and Universal Serial Bus (USB) peripherals). Chipsets can perform essential logic functions, and operate in concert with the microprocessor to manage system control and power management functions of all the devices in the system. Chipsets are most often found in larger form factor systems, typically desktop systems or larger notebook platforms, which require the expanded peripheral selection that is enabled by the chipset. Typical notebook platforms and small form factor desktop platforms typically do not utilize a chipset and instead rely on the capabilities of the APU to connect to all the required devices on the platform. Our Computing and Graphics Products Our microprocessors are incorporated into computing platforms, which are a collection of technologies that are designed to work together to provide a more complete computing solution and to enable and advance the computing components. We believe that integrated, balanced computing platforms consisting of microprocessors, chipsets (either as discrete devices or integrated into an SoC) and GPUs (either as discrete GPUs or integrated into an APU or SoC) that work together at the system level bring end users improved system stability, increased performance and enhanced power efficiency. In addition, we believe our customers also benefit from an all-AMD platform (consisting of an APU or CPU, a discrete GPU, and a chipset when needed), as we are able to optimize interoperability, provide our customers a single point of contact for the 3 key platform components and enable them to bring the platforms to market quickly in a variety of PC and server system form factors. We currently base our microprocessors and chipsets on the x86 instruction set architecture and the AMD Infinity Fabric, which connects an on-chip memory controller and input/output (I/O) channels directly to one or more microprocessor cores. We typically integrate two or more processor cores onto a single die, and each core has its own dedicated cache, which is memory that is located on the semiconductor die, permitting quick access to frequently used data and instructions. Some of our microprocessors have additional levels of cache such as L2, or second-level cache, and L3, or third-level cache, to enable fast data access and high performance. We focus on continually improving the energy efficiency of our products through our design principles and innovations in power management technology. To that end, we offer CPUs, GPUs, APUs, SoCs and chipsets with multiple low power states that are designed to utilize lower clock speeds and voltages to reduce processor power consumption during active and idle times. The use of intelligent, dynamic power management is designed to create lower energy use by allowing compute applications to be completed quickly and efficiently, enabling a return to the ultra-low power idle state. Desktop. In May 2019, we introduced the 3 rd Gen AMD Ryzen desktop processor family based on the new Zen 2 core architecture with AMD chiplet design approach. Following that introduction, we announced in November 2019 the global availability of the flagship product in our AM4 mainstream platform infrastructure, the AMD Ryzen 9 3950X. This product enables a high core count with 16 cores and 32 threads designed for PC buyers. At the value end of the mainstream AM4 platform portfolio, we also announced the new AMD Athlon 3000G processor offering better performance and value for end users building budget oriented desktop platforms. In addition to the mainstream product family, we introduced the next generation of the Ryzen Threadripper product line built on the new TRX40 platform to serve the needs of the high-end desktop segment for creators and enthusiasts. Our November 2019 introduction included the 24-core AMD Ryzen Threadripper 3960X and the 32-core AMD Ryzen Threadripper 3970X processors. In January 2020, we announced a processor for creative professionals, the 64-core, 128-thread AMD Ryzen Threadripper 3990X built to enable extreme performance for 3D, visual effects, and video professionals. Notebooks and 2-in-1s. We continue to invest in designing and developing high performing and low power APUs for notebook PC platforms for the consumer and commercial markets. In January 2019, we announced our mobility line-up encompassing all notebook segments: second generation AMD Ryzen 3000 Series Mobile Processors, powering ultrathin, commercial and gaming notebooks; AMD Athlon 300 Series Mobile Processors, powering mainstream notebooks with the Zen core; and optimized seventh generation A-Series processors, elevating performance for mainstream Chromebooks notebook computers. In January 2020, we announced our x86 8-core ultrathin laptop processors, the AMD Ryzen 4000 U-Series, as part of the AMD Ryzen 4000 Series Mobile Processor family, built on Zen 2 core architecture with 7nm process technology and high performance Radeon graphics in an SOC design. In addition, as part of the AMD Ryzen 4000 Series Mobile Processor family, we announced the Ryzen 4000 H-Series Mobile Processors for gaming and content creation. These processors support AMD SmartShift technology, which allows for automatic power shifting with AMD Radeon discrete mobile GPUs to enable new levels of performance in thin notebooks. We also announced the AMD Athlon 3000 Series Mobile Processor family powered by Zen architecture for mainstream notebook users. Commercial. We offer enterprise-class desktop and notebook PC solutions sold as AMD PRO Mobile and AMD PRO desktop processors with Radeon Vega Graphics for the commercial client market. These solutions are designed to provide enterprise customers with the performance, security and business features such as commercial-grade quality, platform longevity and extended image stability they require. In April 2019, we announced the 2 nd Gen AMD Ryzen PRO mobile processors with Radeon Vega Graphics and the AMD Athlon PRO mobile processors with Radeon Vega Graphics. These processors provide power-efficient performance, security features and commercial-grade reliability and manageability. In September 2019, we expanded our commercial desktop lineup with the global availability of our new AMD Ryzen PRO 3000 Series desktop processors: AMD Ryzen 9 PRO 3900, AMD Ryzen 7 PRO 3700, and AMD Ryzen 5 PRO 3600. The processors offer up to 12 cores and 24 threads and bring the computing performance of Zen 2 and high core count to the commercial segment. Chipsets. We offer a full suite of chipset products, including the new X570 chipset introduced in July 2019 which supports PCIe 4.0 (fourth generation Peripheral Component Interconnect Express motherboard interface) designed for enthusiast desktop platforms. In addition, we also offer the B450 and the A320 chipset that are combined with AMD Ryzen processors for the AM4 desktop platform for the performance and affordable mainstream platforms segments. We also have the A300 chipsets designed for small form factors. In the High-End Desktop (HEDT) segment, we introduced the new TRX40 chipset to support the 3rd generation Ryzen Threadripper platform which offers high speed I/O and platform bandwidth. For the 1st and 2nd generation Threadripper families, we continue to offer the X399 chipset. We also continue to offer AMD 9-Series chipsets for the Socket AM3/3+ platforms serving desktop PCs, and AMD A-Series Controller Hubs 4 for the Socket FM2/2+ platforms. We also offer AMD 785E, 780E, 780M, 690E, SR5690, SP5100, SB600, SB710, SB850 and M690E chipsets and AMD A-Series Controller Hubs for our embedded products. Graphics Market The semiconductor graphics market addresses the need for improved visual and data processing in various computing devices. Many consumers value a rich visual experience to enable a more compelling and immersive experience, and, for these consumers, the PC has evolved from a traditional data processing and communications device to an entertainment platform. As a result, visual realism and graphical display capabilities are key product differentiation elements among computing devices. This has led to increasing creation and use of processing-intensive multimedia content for computing devices, including playing games, capturing media content, viewing online videos, editing photos and managing digital content. In turn, these trends have contributed to higher consumer demand for performance graphics solutions and to manufacturers designing computing devices with these capabilities. Industries that utilize computer assisted design (CAD), that develop content for media and entertainment markets and that generate professional visualizations and renderings can benefit greatly from graphics solutions optimized for the professional graphics market. In addition to traditional graphics markets, there is a large and growing market for accelerated computing, powered by graphics processors, which is primarily made up of high-performance computing and machine learning/deep learning. Traditional high performance computing focuses on scientific research, model simulation, and exploration which is mainly driven by a need for computing throughput in universities and government research centers. The second market is the rapidly growing area of machine learning and deep learning workloads. Graphics processors are used both in the training of machine learning models as well as the application of models via inference. The expansion of compute workloads on graphics processors is driving market expansion for traditional graphics silicon. Another area of the market for graphics compute is blockchain technology, which is a decentralized digital ledger used to securely store, transmit and process sensitive and valuable data. Blockchain applications are typically performed using specifically designed application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or a general purpose CPU or GPU. Our Graphics Products Graphics processing is a fundamental component of almost everything we create and can be found in an APU, GPU, SoC or a combination of a discrete GPU with one of the other foregoing products working in tandem. Our customers generally use our graphics solutions to enable or increase the speed of rendering images, to help improve image resolution and color definition, and increasingly to process massive data sets for cloud and data center applications. We develop our graphics products for use in various computing devices and entertainment platforms, including desktop PCs, notebook PCs, 2-in-1s, All-in-Ones (AIOs), professional workstations, and the data center. With each of our graphics products, we have available drivers and supporting software packages that enable the effective use of these products under a variety of operating systems and applications. Our APUs deliver visual processing functionality for value and mainstream PCs by integrating a CPU and a GPU on a single chip, while discrete GPUs (which are also known as dGPUs) offer high performance graphics processing across all platforms. AMD Accelerated Parallel Processing or General Purpose GPU (GPGPU) refers to a set of advanced hardware and software technologies that enable discrete AMD GPUs, working in concert with the CPU, to accelerate computational tasks beyond traditional CPU processing by utilizing the vast number of discrete GPU cores while working with the CPU to process information cooperatively. In addition, computing devices with heterogeneous computing features can run computationally-intensive tasks more efficiently, which we believe provides a superior application experience to the end user. Moreover, heterogeneous computing allows for the elevation of the GPU to the same level as the CPU for memory access, queuing and execution. Discrete Desktop and Notebook Graphics . Our discrete GPUs for desktop and notebook PCs support current generation application program interface (APIs) like DirectX 12 and Vulkan , support new displays using Radeon FreeSync and Radeon FreeSync 2 HDR technologies, and are designed to support VR in PC platforms. In January 2019, we introduced the AMD Radeon VII, a premium graphics card for gamers, creators and enthusiasts built on 7nm process technology and with 16GB of HBM2 memory (High Bandwidth Memory) and 1 TB/s memory bandwidth. In May 2019, we announced the RDNA gaming architecture which is designed to deliver better performance, power and memory efficiency. In July 2019, we announced the availability of the 7nm AMD Radeon RX 5700-series gaming graphics card family (AMD Radeon RX 5700 XT and RX 5700) featuring AMD RDNA architecture, high-speed GDDR6 (Graphics Double Data Rate type 6) memory and support for the PCIe 4.0 interface. In October 2019, we announced the AMD Radeon RX 5500 series that includes the Radeon RX 5500 graphics card that will be available in desktop PCs from manufacturers and graphics cards from board partners as well as the Radeon 5500M GPU for notebook PCs. In December 2019, we announced AMD 5 Radeon RX 5500 XT graphics card that is optimized to deliver high performance. In January 2020, we introduced AMD Radeon RX 5600 series graphics products, which includes the AMD Radeon RX 5600 XT graphics card and the AMD Radeon RX 5600 graphics card, with AMD RDNA architecture and software feature to provide high-performance and high-fidelity experiences for 1080p gamers. Professional Graphics. Our AMD Radeon Pro family of professional graphics products includes multi-view graphics cards and GPUs designed for integration in mobile and desktop workstations. AMD Radeon Pro graphics cards are designed for demanding use cases such as design and manufacturing for CAD, and media and entertainment for broadcast and animation pipelines. AMD Radeon Pro supports end users utilizing GPU accelerated visualization for construction, architecture and mechanical design through gaming and visualization engines on high resolution displays; Radeon VR Creator cards are also capable of supporting this functionality with VR and AR. Software drivers for AMD Radeon Pro cards are designed to deliver high stability and performance across a wide variety of software packages including those requiring professional software vendor certifications. In June 2019, we announced the AMD Radeon Pro Vega II GPUs which utilizes 7nm AMD Radeon Vega family GPUs, HBM2 and AMD Infinity Fabric Link GPU interconnect technology designed to power demanding professional applications. In November 2019, we announced the AMD Radeon Pro W5700, a 7nm professional PC workstation graphics card that enables 3D designers, architects and engineers to visualize, review and interact with their designs in real time to accelerate decision-making processes and product development cycles. Data Center Graphics . Our AMD Radeon Instinct family of GPU products are specifically designed to address growing demand for data center applications, including deep learning training and traditional high performance computing (HPC) workloads such as simulation where the compute capabilities of GPUs provide exceptional flexibility and performance. Combined with our open-source software, Radeon Open eCosystem (ROCm), our customers can deliver a differentiated acceleration platforms to address the next-generation of computing challenges while minimizing power and space needs in the data center. In March 2019, Google announced its new Stadia cloud 