ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 14 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40 I TEM 1C. C ybersecurity 40 ITEM 2. Properties 41 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 41 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 41 PART II 42 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 43 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 53 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 94 ITEM 9B. Other Information 95 ITEM 9C. Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 95 PART III 96 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 96 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 96 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 96 PART IV 97 ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 97 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 104 SIGNATURES . 105 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including believes, expects, may, will, should, seeks, intends, plans, pro forma, estimates, anticipates, or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: possible impact of future accounting rules on AMD s consolidated financial statements; demand for AMD s products; AMD s strategy and expected benefits; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future; that AMD s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Agreement) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries, our commercial paper program, and our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund AMD s operations including capital expenditures and purchase commitments over the next 12 months and beyond; AMD s ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD s expectation that based on management s current knowledge, the potential liability related to AMD s current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operation or cash flows; anticipated ongoing and increased costs related to enhancing and implementing information security controls; all unbilled accounts receivables are expected to be billed and collected within 12 months; revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied which will be recognized in the next 12 months; a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMD s revenue in the future; the expected implications from the development of the legal and regulatory environment relating to emerging technologies such as AI; AMD s expectation that it will not pay dividends in the near future; AMD s ability to achieve its corporate responsibility initiatives; expected future AI technology trends and developments. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors and the Financial Condition section set forth in Part II, Item 7-Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD A, and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Additionally, we make certain voluntary disclosures in this report and on our website, which are informed by various standards and frameworks (including standards for the measurement of underlying data), and the interests of various stakeholders. As such, these voluntary disclosures may not necessarily be material under the federal securities laws for SEC reporting purposes. Furthermore, much of this information is subject to methodological considerations or information, including from third-parties, that is still evolving and subject to change, and which AMD does not independently verify. For example, our disclosures based on any standards may change due to revisions in framework requirements, availability of information, changes in our business or applicable government policies, or other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to AMD, we, us, management, our or the Company mean Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a global semiconductor company primarily offering: server microprocessors (CPUs), graphics processing units (GPUs), accelerated processing units (APUs), data processing units (DPUs), Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), Smart Network Interface Cards (SmartNICs), Artificial Intelligence (AI) accelerators and Adaptive System-on-Chip (SoC) products for data centers; 1 Table of Contents CPUs, APUs and chipsets for desktop, notebook, and handheld personal computers; discrete GPUs, and semi-custom SoC products and development services; and embedded CPUs, GPUs, APUs, FPGAs, System on Modules (SOMs), and Adaptive SoC products. From time to time, we may also sell or license portions of our intellectual property (IP) portfolio. Additional Information AMD was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on May 1, 1969 and became a publicly held company in 1972. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol AMD . Our mailing address and executive offices are located at 2485 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 749-4000. For financial information about geographic areas and for segment information with respect to revenues and operating results, refer to the information set forth in Note 4 of our consolidated financial statements. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. References in this report to 2023, 2022 and 2021 refer to the fiscal year unless explicitly stated otherwise. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, AMD CDNA, AMD Instinct, RDNA, Alveo, Artix, Athlon, CoolRunner, EPYC, FidelityFX, FirePro, FreeSync, Geode, Infinity Fabric, Kinex, Kria, Pensando, Radeon, ROCm, Ryzen, Spartan, Threadripper, UltraScale, UltraScale+, V-Cache, Versal, Virtex, Vitis, Vivado, Xilinx, XDNA, Zynq and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft, Windows, DirectX and Xbox One are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. PCIe is a registered trademark of PCI-SIG Corporation. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and/or other countries. PlayStation is a registered trademark or trademark of Sony Interactive Entertainment, Inc. Arm is a registered trademark of ARM Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the United States and/or other countries. Vulkan and the Vulkan logo are registered trademarks of Khronos Group Inc. Steam Deck and the Steam Deck logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. Website Access to Our SEC Filings and Corporate Governance Documents On the Investor Relations pages of our website, http://ir.amd.com, we post links to our filings with the SEC, our Principles of Corporate Governance, our Code of Ethics for our executive officers, all other senior finance executives and certain representatives from legal and internal audit, our Worldwide Standards of Business Conduct, which applies to our Board of Directors and all of our employees, and the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors. Our filings with the SEC are posted as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. You can also obtain copies of these documents by writing to us at: Corporate Secretary, AMD, 2485 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, or emailing us at: Corporate.Secretary@amd.com. All of these documents and filings are available free of charge. If we make substantive amendments to our Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar functions, we intend to disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report. Our Industry We are a global semiconductor company. Semiconductors are components used in a variety of electronic products and systems. An integrated circuit (IC) is a semiconductor device that consists of many interconnected transistors on a single chip. Since the invention of the transistor in 1948, improvements in IC process and design technologies have led to the development of smaller, more complex and more reliable ICs at a lower cost-per-function. 2 Table of Contents Our Strategy AMD drives innovation through high-performance and adaptive computing technology, software and product leadership. Our strategy is to create and deliver the world s leading high-performance and adaptive computing products across a diverse set of customer markets including data center, client, gaming and embedded. Our strategy is focused on five strategic pillars: extend leadership in foundational technology and IP, provide competitive software, tools and open-source enablement, re-use core technology across platforms to achieve economies of scale, build effective ecosystems with disciplined partnerships, and drive customer-centric go-to-market that leverages all of AMD s capabilities. With our high-performance product portfolios, we deliver solutions that are differentiated at the chip level, such as our semi-custom SoCs, Adaptive SoCs, and APUs, and at the platform level, such as in our customers client computing devices, embedded platforms and servers. We offer a deep portfolio of data center computing solutions including CPUs, GPUs, DPUs, SmartNICs, FPGAs, AI accelerators and Adaptive SoCs to meet the vast computing performance requirements of today s data centers, supercomputers, AI and Machine Learning (ML) data center environments and cloud environments. AMD is a leader in adaptive and embedded computing, CPUs, APUs, FPGAs, SOMs and Adaptive SoCs for a variety of markets, including health care, automotive, industrial, storage and networking. We drive innovation with our line-up of CPUs, APUs and chipsets for desktop, notebook, commercial and handheld PCs to bring performance, efficiency and modern security features to gamers, creators, consumers and enterprises. Our GPUs, including discrete GPUs, semi-custom SoC products and development services, work together with software to power immersive gaming experiences for personal PCs, handheld PCs, the latest game consoles and cloud gaming services. We believe that AI capabilities are central to products and solutions across our markets and we have a broad technology roadmap and products targeting AI training and inference spanning cloud, edge and intelligent endpoints. We offer products that include capabilities to support AI deployment and we expect this part of our business to grow. Our AI product portfolio caters to customers across strategic markets, from data center to enterprise to client. We achieve this through our family of CPUs, GPUs, FPGAs, and Adaptive SoCs. With the acquisitions of Mipsology SAS and Nod, Inc. in 2023, we expanded our AI software capabilities to accelerate our AI growth strategy centered on an open software ecosystem to help lower the barriers of entry for customers through developer tools, libraries and models. We develop world-class software platforms that are used to enable our high-performance products. Our software platforms include development tools, compilers, and drivers for our CPUs, APUs, GPUs and FPGAs. We work closely with our customers to define and develop customized solutions to precisely match their requirements. We enable this by combining our broad portfolio of high-performance IP with our leadership design and packaging to deliver world-class customized solutions to our customers. We invest in innovative technology and solutions such as our custom-ready chiplet platform and AMD Infinity Architecture to maintain our leadership position as a custom-design silicon provider of choice. Our four reportable segments are: the Data Center segment, which primarily includes server CPUs, GPUs, APUs, DPUs, FPGAs, SmartNICs, AI accelerators and Adaptive SoC products for data centers; the Client segment, which primarily includes CPUs, APUs, and chipsets for desktop, notebook and handheld personal computers; the Gaming segment, which primarily includes discrete GPUs, semi-custom SoC products and development services; and the Embedded segment, which primarily includes embedded CPUs, GPUs, APUs, FPGAs, SOMs, and Adaptive SoC products. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. 3 Table of Contents Data Center Segment Data Center Market The Data Center segment primarily includes server-class CPUs, GPUs, AI accelerators, DPUs, FPGAs, SmartNICs, and Adaptive SoC products. We leverage our technology to address the computational, visual data processing and AI workload acceleration needs in the data center market. Modern data centers require high performance, energy efficient, scalable and adaptable compute engines to meet the demand driven by the growing amount of data that needs to be stored, accessed, analyzed and managed. Different combinations of CPUs, GPUs, DPUs, FPGAs, SmartNICs, and Adaptive SoCs enable the optimization of performance and power for a diverse set of workloads. Data Center Products Server CPUs. Our CPUs for server platforms currently include the AMD EPYC Series processors AMD EPYC 9004 Series, AMD EPYC 8004 Series, AMD EPYC 7003 Series and AMD EPYC 7002 Series. Our 4 th Gen AMD EPYC 9004 Series processors are built on the Zen 4 5 nanometer (nm) process node and re designed to deliver leadership performance and energy efficiency across a range of market segments and workloads. The AMD EPYC 97x4, cloud native-optimized data center CPUs, formerly codenamed Bergamo, are built with our Zen 4c architecture core and further extend the EPYC 9004 Series of processors to deliver the thread density and scale needed for cloud native computing. Our AMD EPYC 8004 Series processors, formerly codenamed Siena , are also built on the Zen 4c core into a workload-optimized CPU. Our 3 rd Gen AMD EPYC and 4th Gen AMD EPYC portfolios both include processors that feature AMD 3D V-Cache technology for leadership performance in technical computing workloads. Data Center GPUs. Our AMD Instinct family of GPU accelerator products, including AMD Instinct MI200 and MI300 Series which are based on AMD CDNA architecture. AMD Instinct accelerators are designed to address the growing demand for compute-accelerated data center workloads, including AI training and inferencing, and a range of supercomputing applications where the compute capabilities of GPUs can provide additional performance. Combined with our AMD ROCm open software platform, our customers can deliver differentiated accelerated platforms to address the next-generation of computing challenges while minimizing power and space needs in the data center. Our visual cloud GPU offerings include products in the Radeon PRO V families. Our visual cloud data center GPUs include a range of solutions tailored towards workloads requiring remote visualization, such as Desktop-as-a-Service, Workstation-as-a-Service and Cloud Gaming. FPGAs and Adaptive SoCs. We offer a wide range of FPGAs, Adaptive SoCs and acceleration cards for the data center. Devices include the Virtex and Kintex FPGA products, as well as Zynq , Zynq MPSoC, and Versal Adaptive SoC products. Our Alveo accelerator cards provide a platform for accelerating workloads including AI processing in the data center, at the edge or the cloud. Our AMD Alveo MA35D media accelerator is designed to deliver high channel density, power efficiency and ultra-low-latency performance. To make it accessible for developers, Alveo is available on most major OEM server platforms, as well as a growing presence across all major cloud providers who provide FPGA-as-a-Service (FaaS). DPUs. Our P4 programmable AMD Pensando DPUs are designed to help offload data center infrastructure services from the host CPU, and coupled with our comprehensive networking software stack, AMD DPUs help enable cloud and enterprise customers to optimize performance for network, storage, and security services at cloud scale. Designed for minimal latency, jitter and power impact, our DPUs can help large Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud providers improve workload performance for hosted virtualized and bare-metal offerings. 4 Table of Contents Client Segment Client Market Our CPUs are incorporated into computing platforms, which are a collection of technologies that are designed to work together to provide a more complete computing solution. We believe that integrated, balanced computing platforms consisting of CPUs, chipsets, GPUs (either as discrete GPUs or integrated into an APU or SoC) and AI accelerators that work together at the system level bring end users improved system stability, increased performance and enhanced power efficiency. In addition, we believe customers also benefit from an all-AMD platform (consisting of an APU or CPU, a discrete GPU, a chipset and AMD software), as we are able to optimize interoperability, provide our customers a single point of contact for the key platform components and enable them to bring the platforms to market quickly in a variety of PC form factors. We currently base our CPUs, APUs and chipsets on the x86 instruction set architecture and the AMD Infinity Fabric , which connects an on-chip memory controller and input/output (I/O) channels directly to our compute engines and domain specific accelerators. Client Products Desktop CPUs. Our CPUs and APUs for desktop platforms currently include the AMD Ryzen and AMD Athlon series processors. Our Ryzen 7000 Series desktop processors are based on Zen 4 architecture and deliver leadership performance for gamers and content creators. Our AMD Ryzen 5000 Series desktop processor family powered by our Zen 3 core architecture has up to 16 cores and provides price-performance for all levels of customers. For gaming enthusiasts, both the Ryzen 7000 Series and 5000 Series feature models with the AMD 3D V-Cache technology designed to improve gaming performance. AMD has returned to the high end desktop (HEDT) segment with Ryzen Threadripper 7000 Series processors featuring up to 64 cores. Notebook CPUs. Our mobile APUs, including AMD Ryzen and AMD Athlon mobile processors for the commercial and consumer markets, combine both high levels of performance and efficiency for notebook PCs. Our AMD Ryzen 7045 Series processors are designed to deliver high performance gaming solutions. Our AMD Ryzen 7040 Series processors for mobile applications have up to 8 Zen 4 architecture cores, are built on 4 nm process technology, and feature AMD RDNA 3 graphics. Our Ryzen 7040 Series mobile processors also feature dedicated AI hardware in an x86 processor, with our XDNA architecture. Built on advanced 6 nm technology, our AMD Ryzen and Athlon 7020 C-Series processors have up to four cores and eight threads built on Zen 2 architecture and AMD RDNA 2 integrated graphics to deliver fast and responsive performance for modern productivity, video conferencing, learning apps and streaming applications. We also offer AMD Ryzen 6000 Series mobile processors, built on Zen 3+ architecture and AMD Ryzen 5000 Series mobile processors, which are powered by both our Zen 2 and Zen 3 core architectures, which are designed for mainstream solutions in both consumer and commercial markets. Our AMD Ryzen Z1 Series processors bring high-performance to handheld Windows-based PC gaming platforms. These processors feature Zen 4 processor technology combined with RDNA 3 graphics to deliver fast PC gaming, incredible battery life, and immersive experiences in handheld systems. Commercial CPUs. We offer enterprise-class desktop and mobile PC solutions sold as AMD PRO Mobile and AMD PRO desktop processors with Radeon graphics for the commercial market. AMD Ryzen PRO, AMD Threadripper PRO and AMD Athlon PRO processors solutions are designed to provide enterprise customers with the performance, security capabilities and business features such as enhanced security and manageability, platform longevity and extended image stability. Our AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 7000 WX-Series processors with Zen 4 core architecture and 5000 WX-Series processors with Zen 3 core architecture provide full-spectrum performance across multiple workstation workloads due to the performance and efficiency of the Zen CPU core with core count scaling up to 96 cores in the 7000 WX-Series. Our Ryzen PRO 7040 Series Mobile processors are built on Zen 4 architecture, AMD RDNA 3 integrated graphics, AMD PRO technologies and Ryzen AI, on select models. Our AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 7000 WX-Series processors are built on 5 nm Zen 4 architecture. Chipsets. We offer a full suite of chipset products to support our AMD Ryzen and Threadripper platforms, including chipsets for the AM5 socket like the X670 chipsets which support PCIe 5.0 (fifth generation Peripheral Component Interconnect Express motherboard interface) designed for enthusiast desktop platforms. In the AM5 platform we also offer B650 chipsets to enable a broader range of solutions in the market. In the AM4 ecosystem for 5000-series processors and prior, we offer the X570, B550 and A520 chipsets. In addition, we continue to offer the B450 chipsets that are combined with AMD Ryzen processors for the AM4 desktop platform for the performance and affordable mainstream platforms segments. In HEDT and Workstation segments, we offer the WRX90 and TRX50 chipsets to support 7000-series Threadripper and Threadripper PRO platforms, as well as the WRX80 chipsets to support the 5000-series Threadripper PRO platforms. 5 Table of Contents Gaming Segment Gaming Market Graphics processing is a fundamental component across many of our products and can be found in APU, GPU, SoC or a combination of a discrete GPU with another product working in tandem. Our customers generally use our graphics solutions to enable or increase the speed of rendering images, to help improve image resolution and color definition and/or to process AI/ML based workloads. We develop our graphics products for use in various computing devices and entertainment platforms, including desktop PCs, notebook PCs, handheld PCs, All-in-Ones (AIOs), professional workstations, and the data center. With each of our graphics products, we have available drivers and supporting software packages that enable the effective use of these products under a variety of operating systems and applications. We have developed AMD RDNA 3, a high performing and power efficient graphics architecture, featuring a chiplet design, AI accelerators and the Radiance Display Engine. This generation continues to support advanced graphics features introduced with RDNA 2, such as ray tracing, AMD Infinity Cache and variable rate shading. The Sony PlayStation 5 and Microsoft Xbox Series S and X game consoles also feature our RDNA graphics architecture. Our APUs deliver visual processing functionality for value and mainstream PCs by integrating a CPU and a GPU on a single chip, while discrete GPUs (which are also known as dGPUs) offer high-performance graphics processing across all platforms. We leverage our core IP, including our graphics and processing technologies to develop semi-custom solutions. Here, semiconductor suppliers work alongside system designers and manufacturers to enhance the performance and overall user experience for semi-custom customers. We have used this collaborative co-development approach with many of today s leading game console and handheld PC gaming manufacturers and can also address customer needs in many other markets. We leverage our existing IP to create a variety of products tailored to a specific customer s needs, including complex fully-customized SoCs to more modest adaptations and integrations of existing CPU, APU or GPU products. Gaming Products Semi-Custom Products. Our semi-custom products are tailored, high-performance, customer-specific solutions based on our CPU, GPU and multi-media technologies. We work closely with our customers to define solutions to precisely match the requirements of the device or application. We developed the semi-custom SoC products that power both the Sony PlayStation 5 as well as the Microsoft Xbox Series S and X game consoles. We partnered with Valve to create a semi-custom APU optimized for handheld gaming to power the Steam Deck . Discrete Desktop and Notebook GPUs . Our AMD Radeon series discrete GPU processors for desktop and notebook PCs support current generation application program interfaces (APIs) like DirectX 12 Ultimate and Vulkan , support high-refresh rate displays using AMD FreeSync , AMD FreeSync Premium, and AMD FreeSync Premium Pro technologies, and are designed to support VR in PC platforms. Our AMD Radeon Software offers performance enhancing tools and enables new features and customization capabilities to customers and end-users. In addition, we also offer tools for game developers such as our AMD FidelityFX open-source image quality software toolkit that helps deliver improved visual quality with minimal performance overhead. FidelityFX Super Resolution (FSR) uses upscaling technologies to help boost frame rates in games. Our FSR 2.0 technology uses temporal data and optimized anti-aliasing to boost frame rates in supported games while delivering similar or better image quality than native resolution without the requirement of dedicated machine learning hardware. Our FSR 3.0 technology combines the upscaling features of prior versions while introducing our AMD Fluid Motion Frames Technology which generates interpolated frames between native frames to increase the frame rate of games for a smoother gaming experience. Varying versions of FSR are supported in over 250 games and multiple products including Radeon GPUs, Ryzen APUs, and many of our Semi-custom solutions. Being an open-source technology FSR works across competing hardware solutions as well. Our AMD Radeon RX 7000 series are built on the high-performance, energy-efficient AMD RDNA3 architecture which provides up to 96 compute units, second generation high-bandwidth, low-latency AMD Infinity Cache technology as well as dedicated AI and ray tracing hardware. The AMD RDNA 3 architecture provides process optimizations plus firmware and software enhancements and supports AI-accelerated video encoding and hardware-accelerated AV1 encoding. It uses high-speed GDDR6 video RAM (VRAM) and targets discrete desktop GPUs with up to 24GB of VRAM, notebook GPUs with up to 16GB of VRAM. We continue to offer AMD Radeon RX 6000 series discrete graphics, based on our RDNA2 architecture, for high-performance gaming desktops and notebooks. Our AMD Advantage Design Framework is a collaboration with our global PC partners, delivering high-performance gaming notebooks by combining our AMD Radeon RX series mobile graphics, AMD Software: Adrenalin Edition, AMD Ryzen series mobile processors and utilizing AMD smart technologies to provide best-in-class gaming experiences. 6 Table of Contents Professional GPUs. Our AMD Radeon W7000 PRO family of professional graphics products are based on the AMD RDNA3 architecture and are designed for integration in mobile and desktop workstations. AMD Radeon PRO graphics cards are designed to optimize design workloads across demanding use cases such as 3D rendering, design and manufacturing for CAD, and media and entertainment for broadcast and animation pipelines on high resolution displays. Our AMD Radeon PRO W7000 series supports workstation GPUs with up to 48GB of VRAM and features the AMD Radiance Display Engine featuring DisplayPort 2.1 that delivers very high resolution and refresh rates, 