Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. [Reserved] 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 81 Item 9B. Other Information 81 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 82 Item 11. Executive Compensation 82 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 83 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 83 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 83 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 84 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 87 SIGNATURES 88 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Development of Business AMETEK, Inc. ( AMETEK or the Company ) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. AMETEK maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia at 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME), the common stock of AMETEK is a component of the Standard and Poor s 500 and the Russell 1000 Indices. Products and Services AMETEK s products are marketed and sold worldwide through two operating groups: Electronic Instruments ( EIG ) and Electromechanical ( EMG ). Electronic Instruments is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Electromechanical is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. Its end markets include aerospace and defense, medical, automation and other industrial markets. Competitive Strengths Management believes AMETEK has significant competitive advantages that help strengthen and sustain its market positions. Those advantages include: Significant Market Share . AMETEK maintains significant market share in a number of targeted niche markets through its ability to produce and deliver high-quality, differentiated products at competitive prices. EIG has significant market positions in niche segments of the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. EMG holds significant positions in niche segments of the aerospace and defense, automation and medical markets. Technological and Development Capabilities . AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to maintain its leading market positions. Historically, it has demonstrated an ability to develop innovative new products and solutions that anticipate customer needs. It has consistently added to its investment in research, development and engineering, and improved its new product development efforts with the adoption of Design for Six Sigma and Value Analysis/Value Engineering methodologies. These have improved the pace and quality of product innovation and resulted in the introduction of a steady stream of new products across all of AMETEK s businesses. Efficient and Flexible Manufacturing Operations. Through its Operational Excellence initiatives, AMETEK has established a lean and flexible manufacturing platform for its businesses. In its effort to achieve best-cost manufacturing, AMETEK had operating facilities, as of December 31, 2021, in Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, and Serbia. These facilities offer proximity to customers and provide opportunities for increasing international sales. Acquisitions also have allowed AMETEK to achieve operating synergies by consolidating operations, product lines and distribution channels, benefiting both of AMETEK s operating groups. Experienced Management Team . Another component of AMETEK s success is the strength of its management team and that team s commitment to improving Company performance. AMETEK senior management has extensive industry experience and an average of approximately 29 years of AMETEK service. The management team is focused on delivering strong, consistent and profitable growth, growing 2 Table of Contents shareholder value, and creating a sustainable future for our stakeholders. Individual performance is tied to financial results through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs. Business Strategy AMETEK is committed to achieving earnings growth through the successful implementation of the AMETEK Growth Model. The goal of that model is double-digit annual percentage growth in sales and earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. Other financial initiatives have been or may be undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries and share repurchases. AMETEK s Growth Model integrates the four growth strategies of Operational Excellence, Strategic Acquisitions, Global and Market Expansion, and New Product Development with a focus on cash generation and capital deployment. Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK s cornerstone strategy for accelerating growth, improving profit margins and strengthening its competitive position across its businesses. Operational Excellence focuses on initiatives to drive increased organic sales growth, improvements in operating efficiencies and sustainable practices. It emphasizes team building and a participative management culture. AMETEK s Operational Excellence strategies include lean manufacturing, global sourcing, Design for Six Sigma, Value Engineering/Value Analysis and growth kaizens. Each plays an important role in improving efficiency, enhancing the pace and quality of innovation and driving profitable sales growth. Operational Excellence initiatives have yielded lower operating and administrative costs, shortened manufacturing cycle times, resulted in higher cash flow from operations and increased customer satisfaction. They also have played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies. Strategic Acquisitions . Acquisitions are a key to achieving the goals of the AMETEK Growth Model. Since the beginning of 2017 through December 31, 2021, AMETEK has completed 18 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling approximately $1.4 billion, including six acquisitions in 2021. AMETEK targets companies that offer compelling strategic, technical and cultural fit. It seeks to acquire businesses in adjacent markets with complementary products and technologies. It also looks for businesses that provide attractive growth opportunities, often in new and emerging markets. Through these and prior acquisitions, AMETEK s management team has developed considerable skill in identifying, acquiring and integrating new businesses. As it has executed its acquisition strategy, AMETEK s mix of businesses has shifted toward those that are more highly differentiated and, therefore, offer better opportunities for growth and profitability. Global Market Expansion . AMETEK has historically experienced growth outside the United States, reflecting an expanding international customer base, investments in its global infrastructure and the attractive growth potential of its businesses in overseas markets. While Europe remains its largest overseas market, AMETEK has pursued growth opportunities worldwide, especially in key emerging markets. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by strategically building, acquiring and expanding manufacturing facilities. AMETEK also has expanded its sales, service, and engineering capabilities globally. Recently acquired businesses have further added to AMETEK s international presence. New Products . New products are essential to AMETEK s long-term growth. As a result, AMETEK has maintained a consistent investment in new product development and engineering. AMETEK's businesses help solve our customers' most complex challenges with differentiated technology solutions. In 2021, AMETEK added to its highly differentiated product portfolio with a range of new products across many of its businesses. AMETEK focuses on cash generation and capital deployment. AMETEK generates strong cash flow given its asset-light business model and strong operational execution. This cash flow supports AMETEK s capital deployment strategy with its primary focus on strategic, value-enhancing acquisitions. We are committed to paying a modest quarterly dividend. 3 Table of Contents Attracting, retaining, and developing talent is critical to the success and sustainability of the AMETEK Growth Model as our employees are responsible for successfully driving these strategies. 2021 Overview Operating Performance In 2021, the Company posted record sales, operating income, operating margins, net income, diluted earnings per share, backlog, and orders. The Company achieved these results from organic sales growth in both EIG and EMG, contributions from the 2021 acquisitions of Abaco Systems, Inc., Magnetrol International, NSI-MI Technologies, Crank Software, EGS Automation, and Alphasense as well as the Company's Operational Excellence Initiatives. See "Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details. In 2021, the Company achieved record sales of $5,546.5 million, an increase of 22.2% from 2020 due to 15% organic sales increase, a 7% increase from acquisitions, and a favorable 1% effect of foreign currency translation, partially offset by an unfavorable divestiture impact. Diluted earnings per share for 2021 were a record $4.25, an increase of $0.48 or 12.7%, compared with $3.77 per diluted share in 2020. COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in significant global economic disruption and had an adverse impact on the Company's financial results throughout 2020. The Company has experienced sequential improvement in its financial results since the third quarter of 2020, and this trend has continued throughout 2021. The current economic environment in which the Company operates is characterized by increased material cost inflation, logistics challenges, labor availability issues, and component part shortages. The Company continues to monitor and closely manage through these conditions and has taken steps to mitigate the impacts of the challenging economic environment. The Company's top priority during this pandemic is the health and safety of its employees. All global manufacturing facilities remained fully operational during 2021 and continue to operate with safety protocols in place to ensure the health and safety of its employees and communities. The Company will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on its business. Please refer to "Risk Factors", Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K for more information. Recent Acquisitions The Company spent $1,959.2 million in cash, net of cash acquired, to purchase six businesses in 2021. In February 2021, AMETEK acquired EGS Automation ("EGS"), a designer and manufacturer of highly engineered, customized robotic solutions used in critical applications for the medical, food and beverage, and general industrial markets. In March 2021, AMETEK acquired Magnetrol International ("Magnetrol"), a leading provider of level and flow control solutions for challenging process applications across a diverse set of end markets including medical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, food and beverage, and general industrial. In March 2021, AMETEK acquired Crank Software, a leading provider of embedded graphical user interface software and services. In April 2021, AMETEK acquired NSI-MI Technologies ("NSI-MI"), a leading provider of radio frequency and microwave test and measurement systems for niche applications across the aerospace, defense, automotive, wireless communications, and research markets. 4 Table of Contents In April 2021, AMETEK acquired Abaco Systems, Inc. ("Abaco"), specializing in open-architecture computing and electronic systems for aerospace, defense, and specialized industrial markets and is a leading provider of mission critical embedded computing systems. In November 2021, AMETEK acquired Alphasense, a leading provider of gas and particulate sensors for use in environmental, health and safety, and air quality applications. Financing On April 26, 2021, the Company along with certain of its foreign subsidiaries amended its credit agreement dated as of September 22, 2011, as amended and restated as of March 10, 2016 and as further amended and restated as of October 30, 2018, with the lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Bank of America, N.A., PNC Bank, National Association, Trust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Syndication Agents. The credit agreement amends the Company s existing revolving credit facility to add a new five-year, delayed draw, term loan for up to $800 million. The credit agreement places certain restrictions on allowable additional indebtedness. In November 2021, the Company further amended the Credit Agreement to address the cessation of LIBOR on certain currencies. Description of Business Described below are the products and markets of each reportable segment: EIG EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced analytical, test and measurement instruments for the process, aerospace, medical, research, power and industrial markets. Its growth is based on the strategies outlined in the AMETEK Growth Model. In many instances, its products differ from or are technologically superior to its competitors products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering to develop market-leading products and solutions that serve niche markets. It also has expanded its sales and service capabilities globally to serve its customers. EIG is a leader in many of the specialized markets it serves. Products supplied to these markets include process control instruments for the life sciences, pharmaceutical, semiconductor, automation, food and beverage, oil and gas, and petrochemical industries. It provides a growing range of instruments to the research and laboratory equipment, ultra-precision manufacturing, medical, and test and measurement markets. It is a leader in power quality monitoring and metering, uninterruptible power systems, programmable power equipment, electromagnetic compatibility ( EMC ) test equipment, sensors for gas turbines, dashboard instruments for heavy trucks, and instrumentation and controls for the food and beverage industries. It supplies the aerospace industry with aircraft and engine sensors, monitoring systems, power supplies, fuel and fluid measurement systems, and data acquisition systems. In 2021, 49% of EIG s net sales were to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2021, EIG employed approximately 11,000 people, of whom approximately 600 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2021, EIG had operating facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Switzerland, Argentina, Austria and Mexico. EIG also shares operating facilities with EMG in Brazil, China and Mexico. Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products Process and analytical instrumentation sales represented 70% of EIG s 2021 net sales. These businesses include process analyzers, emission monitors and spectrometers; elemental and surface analysis instruments; level, pressure and temperature sensors and transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement devices; precision manufacturing systems; materials- and force-testing instruments; contact and non-contact metrology products; and clinical and educational communication solutions. Among the industries it serves are power 5 Table of Contents generation; pharmaceutical manufacturing; medical and healthcare; water and waste treatment; renewable energy production, semiconductor manufacturing; natural gas distribution; emissions monitoring, and oil, gas, and petrochemical refining. Its instruments are used for precision measurement in a number of applications, including radiation detection, trace element and materials analysis, nanotechnology research, ultraprecise manufacturing, and test and measurement. Acquired in November 2021, Alphasense is a leading provider of gas and particulate sensors for use in environmental, health and safety, and air quality applications. Alphasense complements the Company's existing sensor business expanding the Company's presence in the environmental health and safety market. Acquired in March 2021, Magnetrol is a leading provider of level and flow control solutions for challenging process applications across a diverse set of end markets including medical, pharmaceutical, oil and gas, food and beverage, and general industrial. Magnetrol's solutions combined with the Company's existing Sensors, Test and Calibration business, becomes an industry leading differentiated sensor platform with a broad range of level and flow measurement solutions. Aerospace and Power Instrumentation Markets and Products Aerospace and Power Instrumentation sales represented 30% of EIG s 2021 net sales. These businesses produce a wide array of instrumentation, systems and sensors for applications in the aerospace, power and industrial markets. These businesses produce power monitoring and metering instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide range of industrial settings. It is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement, quality monitoring and event recorders for use in power generation, transmission and distribution. It provides uninterruptible power supply systems, multifunction electric meters, annunciators, alarm monitoring systems and highly specialized communications equipment for smart grid applications. It also offers precision power supplies and power conditioning products, and electrical immunity and EMC test equipment, sensors for electric vehicle testing, gas turbines, dashboard instruments for heavy trucks and other vehicles, and instrumentation and controls for the food and beverage industries. AMETEK s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. These products include airborne data systems, turbine engine temperature measurement products, vibration-monitoring systems, cockpit instruments and displays, fuel and fluid measurement products, embedded computing systems, and sensors and switches. AMETEK serves all segments of the commercial and military aerospace market, including commercial airliners, business jets, regional aircraft and helicopters. AMETEK operates in highly specialized aerospace market segments in which it has proven technological or manufacturing advantages versus its competition. Among its more significant competitive advantages is its 70-year-plus reputation as an established aerospace supplier. It has long-standing relationships with the world s leading commercial and military aircraft, jet engine and original equipment manufacturers and aerospace system integrators. AMETEK also is a leading provider of spare part sales, repairs and overhaul services to commercial aerospace. Acquired in April 2021, Abaco Systems, Inc. specializes in open-architecture computing and electronic systems for aerospace, defense, and specialized industrial markets and is a leading provider of mission critical embedded computing systems. Abaco's solutions expand and complement the Company's existing aerospace and defense businesses. Acquired in April 2021, NSI-MI is a leading provider of radio frequency and microwave test and measurement systems for niche applications across the aerospace, defense, automotive, wireless communications, and research markets. NSI-MI strengthens the Company's test and measurement platforms. Acquired in March 2021, Crank Software is a leading provider of embedded graphical user interface software and services. Crank Software expands the Company's growing portfolio of software solutions. 6 Table of Contents Acquired in January 2020, IntelliPower is a leading provider of high-reliability, ruggedized uninterruptible power systems serving a wide range of defense and industrial applications. Customers EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG s operations. Approximately 5% of EIG s 2021 net sales were made to its five largest customers. No single customer comprises more than 5% of net sales. EMG EMG is a differentiated supplier of automation solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. EMG is a leader in many of the niche markets in which it competes. Products supplied to these markets include its advanced precision motion control solutions, which are used in a wide range of automation applications across the medical, semiconductor, aerospace, defense, and food and beverage industries, as well as its highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used in aerospace and defense, medical, and industrial applications. EMG supplies high-purity powdered metals, strip and foil, specialty clad metals and metal matrix composites. Its blowers and heat exchangers provide electronic cooling and environmental control for the aerospace and defense industries. Its motors are widely used in commercial appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps and industrial blowers. Additionally, it operates a global network of aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul ( MRO ) facilities. EMG designs and manufactures products that, in many instances, are significantly different from or technologically superior to competitors products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering, efficiency improvements from operational excellence, acquisition synergies and improved supply chain management. In 2021, 50% of EMG s net sales were to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2021, EMG employed approximately 7,000 people, of whom approximately 1,900 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2021, EMG had operating facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, China, Germany, France, Italy, Mexico, Serbia, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Malaysia and Taiwan. Automation and Engineered Solutions Markets and Products Automation and Engineered Solution sales represented 72% of EMG s 2021 net sales. These businesses produce precision motion control solutions, brushless motors, blowers and pumps, heat exchangers and other electromechanical systems. These products are used in a wide variety of automation applications, semiconductor equipment, medical equipment and power industries among others. Additionally, these businesses produce specialty motors which are used in a wide range of products, such as household, commercial and personal care appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps and industrial blowers. AMETEK is a leader in highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used to protect sensitive devices and mission-critical electronics. Its electrical connectors, terminals, headers and packaging are designed specifically for harsh environments and highly customized applications. In addition, AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products used in medical, aerospace and defense, telecommunications, automotive and general industrial applications. Acquired in February 2021, EGS Automation designs and manufactures highly engineered, customized robotic solutions used in critical applications for the medical, food and beverage, and general industrial markets. EGS complements the Company's existing Dunkermotoren business providing highly customizable engineering design and automation capabilities. 7 Table of Contents Aerospace Markets and Products Aerospace sales represented 28% of EMG s 2021 net sales. These businesses produce motor-blower systems and heat exchangers used in thermal management and other applications on a variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles. In addition, these businesses provide the commercial and military aerospace industry with third-party MRO services on a global basis with facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia. Customers EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG s operations. Approximately 8% of EMG s 2021 net sales were made to its five largest customers. No single customer comprises greater than 5% of net sales. Marketing AMETEK s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the business level. EIG makes use of distributors and sales representatives to market its products along with a direct sales force for its technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, the specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of its many products, as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors, both in the United States and in other countries. Competition In general, AMETEK s markets are highly competitive with competition based on technology, performance, quality, service and price. In EIG s markets, AMETEK believes it ranks as a leader in certain analytical measurement and control instruments, and power and industrial markets. It also is a major instrument and sensor supplier to commercial aviation. In process and analytical instruments, numerous companies compete in each market on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. In power and industrial and in aerospace, AMETEK competes with a number of companies depending on the specific market segment. EMG s businesses compete with a number of companies in each of its markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes. Availability of Raw Materials AMETEK s reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. For EMG, however, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel components, are available from only a limited number of suppliers. AMETEK believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs. Environmental and Other Governmental Regulation AMETEK's operations and properties are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management, and workplace safety. The Company uses, generates and disposes of hazardous substances and waste in its operations and could be subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties and related claims. The Company is required to conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all countries as these requirements change. The Company has a robust Environmental Health and Safety program responsible for supporting its environmental monitoring and compliance efforts. In connection with acquisitions, the Company will 8 Table of Contents assess potential material environmental liabilities, and determine regulatory and fiduciary obligations during the course of the due diligence process. In addition, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new requirements could increase our costs or subject us to new or increased liabilities. Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Patents, Licenses and Trademarks AMETEK owns numerous unexpired U.S. and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. It is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. AMETEK, however, does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group of them, essential either to its business as a whole or to either one of its reportable segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to AMETEK s overall operations. Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") and Human Capital Management Environmental, Social, and Governance AMETEK is committed to providing a consistent and excellent return to our stakeholders, all while maintaining a strong commitment to environmental stewardship, social responsibility, diversity and incl