Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 34 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 86 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11. Executive Compensation 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 87 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 87 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 87 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 88 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 SIGNATURES 91 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Development of Business AMETEK, Inc. ( AMETEK or the Company ) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. AMETEK maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia at 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME), the common stock of AMETEK is a component of the Standard and Poor s 500 and the Russell 1000 Indices. Available Information AMETEK s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Company s website at www.ametek.com in the Investors Financial Information section as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. All reports filed with the Securities Exchange Commission can also be viewed on their website at www.sec.gov . AMETEK has posted in the Investors Governance section of its website its corporate governance guidelines, Board committee charters and codes of ethics. Those documents also are available free of charge in published form to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. Products and Services AMETEK s products are marketed and sold worldwide through two operating groups: Electronic Instruments ( EIG ) and Electromechanical ( EMG ). Electronic Instruments is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Electromechanical is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. Its end markets include aerospace and defense, medical, automation and other industrial markets. Competitive Strengths Management believes AMETEK has significant competitive advantages that help strengthen and sustain its market positions. Those advantages include: Significant Market Share . AMETEK maintains significant market share in a number of targeted niche markets through its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. EIG has significant market positions in niche segments of the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. EMG holds significant positions in niche segments of the aerospace and defense, automation and medical markets. Technological and Development Capabilities . AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to maintain its leading market positions. Historically, it has demonstrated an ability to develop innovative new products and solutions that anticipate customer needs. It has consistently added to its investment in research, development and engineering, and improved its new product development efforts with the adoption of Design for Six Sigma and Value Analysis/Value Engineering methodologies. These have improved the pace and quality of product innovation and resulted in the introduction of a steady stream of new products across all of AMETEK s lines of business. 2 Table of Contents Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations. Through its Operational Excellence initiatives, AMETEK has established a lean manufacturing platform for its businesses. In its effort to achieve best-cost manufacturing, AMETEK had plants, as of December 31, 2019, in Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, and Serbia. These plants offer proximity to customers and provide opportunities for increasing international sales. Acquisitions also have allowed AMETEK to reduce costs and achieve operating synergies by consolidating operations, product lines and distribution channels, benefitting both of AMETEK s operating groups. Experienced Management Team . Another component of AMETEK s success is the strength of its management team and that team s commitment to improving Company performance. AMETEK senior management has extensive industry experience and an average of approximately 27 years of AMETEK service. The management team is focused on delivering strong, consistent and profitable growth, and growing shareholder value. Individual performance is tied to financial results through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs. Business Strategy AMETEK is committed to achieving earnings growth through the successful implementation of the AMETEK Growth Model. The goal of that model is double-digit annual percentage growth in sales and earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. In addition, other financial initiatives have been or may be undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries and share repurchases. AMETEK s Growth Model integrates the four growth strategies of Operational Excellence, Strategic Acquisitions, Global and Market Expansion, and New Product Development with a focus on cash generation and capital deployment. Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK s cornerstone strategy for accelerating growth, improving profit margins and strengthening its competitive position across its businesses. Operational Excellence focuses on initiatives to drive increased organic sales growth, improvements in operating efficiencies and sustainable practices. It emphasizes team building and a participative management culture. AMETEK s Operational Excellence strategies include lean manufacturing, global sourcing, Design for Six Sigma, Value Engineering/Value Analysis and growth kaizens. Each plays an important role in improving efficiency, enhancing the pace and quality of innovation and driving profitable sales growth. Operational Excellence initiatives have yielded lower operating and administrative costs, shortened manufacturing cycle times, resulted in higher cash flow from operations and increased customer satisfaction. They also have played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies. Strategic Acquisitions . Acquisitions are a key to achieving the goals of the AMETEK Growth Model. Since the beginning of 2015 through December 31, 2019, AMETEK has completed 18 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling more than $1.1 billion, including two acquisitions in 2019 (see Recent Acquisitions ). AMETEK targets companies that offer compelling strategic, technical and cultural fit. It seeks to acquire businesses in adjacent markets with complementary products and technologies. It also looks for businesses that provide attractive growth opportunities, often in new and emerging markets. Through these and prior acquisitions, AMETEK s management team has developed considerable skill in identifying, acquiring and integrating new businesses. As it has executed its acquisition strategy, AMETEK s mix of businesses has shifted toward those that are more highly differentiated and, therefore, offer better opportunities for growth and profitability. Global Market Expansion . AMETEK has experienced strong growth outside the United States, reflecting an expanding international customer base, investments in its global infrastructure and the attractive growth potential of its businesses in overseas markets. While Europe remains its largest overseas 3 Table of Contents market, AMETEK has pursued growth opportunities worldwide, especially in key emerging markets. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by strategically building, acquiring and expanding manufacturing facilities. AMETEK also has expanded its sales and service capabilities in China and enhanced its sales presence and engineering capabilities in India. Elsewhere in Asia and the Middle East, it has expanded sales, service and technical support. Recently acquired businesses have further added to AMETEK s international presence. New Products . New products are essential to AMETEK s long-term growth. As a result, AMETEK has maintained a consistent investment in new product development and engineering. In 2019, AMETEK added to its highly differentiated product portfolio with a range of new products across many of its businesses. They included: AMETEK Programmable Power launched the RX0424, a rugged accelerometer instrument for measuring acceleration forces in extreme environmental conditions AMETEK SMP added two new titanium strip grades to expand their product portfolio for medical application that will ultimately help in the treatment of Parkinson s disease, sleep apnea and chronic pain without the use of opioids Barben Analytical introduced the second generation OXYvisor , a trace to percent level, optical process oxygen analyzer to help prevent the corrosion of capital equipment and ensure product quality The SPECTROGREEN is the latest inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer from SPECTRO Analytical Instruments that features revolutionary Dual Side-On Interface plasma viewing technology Vision Research launched several new cameras, including the Phantom S640 and VEO 440 high-speed cameras as well as the Phantom Miro C320J and C320 for automotive crash testing AMETEK Land launched two new continuous emission monitoring systems, the 4650-PM and 4750-PM, to accurately and reliably measure particulate matter from the industrial combustion processes Creaform launched two new handheld scanners, the HandySCAN BLACK and the Go!SCAN SPARK, both of which are third-generation versions of the company s patented 3D scanning technology To better detect leaks in Modified Atmosphere Packaging, AMETEK MOCON developed the Dansensor LeakPointer 3 and LeakPointer 3+ for the food industry, where micro leaks in packaging can drastically affect product integrity Adding to their legacy of innovation, Haydon Kerk Pittman launched the EC042B IDEA Motor Series, a brushless motor with integrated drive optimized for specialized motion applications AMETEK Grabner Instruments launched the MINIFLASH FP Vision, which determines the flashpoint of flammable liquid mixtures with faster cooling cycles and sample turnaround times thanks to advanced Peltier technology The EIKOS-UV, a new atom probe microscope from AMETEK CAMECA, delivers nanoscale structural information to help develop products across industrial applications 4 Table of Contents AMETEK EDAX, a leader in X-ray microanalysis and electron diffraction instrumentation, launched the OIM Matrix software package, Elite T Ultra EDS System and the Velocity Super EBSD Camera, which was developed in partnership with the Vision Research team. Cash Flow Generation and Disciplined Capital Deployment . AMETEK generates strong cash flow given its asset-light business model and strong operational execution. This cash flow supports AMETEK s capital deployment strategy with its primary focus on strategic, value-enhancing acquisitions. We are committed to paying a modest quarterly dividend. 2019 OVERVIEW Operating Performance In 2019, the Company posted record sales, operating income, net income, diluted earnings per share, orders, backlog and operating cash flow. The Company achieved these results from organic sales growth in both EIG and EMG, contributions from recent acquisitions, as well as from the Company s Operational Excellence initiatives. See Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details. In 2019, AMETEK achieved sales of $5,158.6 million, an increase of 6.5% from 2018 due to 2% organic sales growth, a 5% increase from the 2019 and 2018 acquisitions, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation. Diluted earnings per share for 2019 were $3.75, an increase of $0.41 or 12.3%, compared with $3.34 per diluted share in 2018. Recent Acquisitions AMETEK spent $1,061.9 million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire two businesses in 2019. In September 2019, AMETEK acquired Pacific Design Technologies, Inc. ( PDT ), a provider of advanced, mission-critical thermal management solutions. PDT is part of EMG. In October 2019, AMETEK acquired Gatan, a provider of instrumentation and software used to enhance and extend the operation and performance of electron microscopes. Gatan is part of EIG. Financing In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company paid in full, at maturity, $100 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.30% private placement senior notes. In December 2018, the Company completed a private placement agreement to sell $575 million and 75 million Euros in senior notes to a group of institutional investors (the 2018 Private Placement ) utilizing two funding dates. The first funding occurred in December 2018 for $475 million and 75 million Euros ($85.1 million). The second funding was in January 2019 for $100 million. The proceeds from the fundings of the 2018 Private Placement were used to pay down domestic borrowings under the Company s revolving credit facility. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details Recent Accounting Pronouncements Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted the requirements of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2016-02 (ASC 842), Leases , using the effective date transition method. Also, effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU No. 2018-02, Income Statement Reporting 5 Table of Contents Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . Upon adoption, the Company did not elect to reclassify the stranded income tax effects of the Tax Act from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations and Export Sales Information with respect to reportable segments and geographic areas is set forth in Note 3 and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AMETEK s international sales increased 1.1% to $2,474.9 million in 2019. International sales represented 48.0% of consolidated net sales in 2019 compared with 50.5% in 2018. Description of Business Described below are the products and markets of each reportable segment: EIG EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced analytical, test and measurement instruments for the process, aerospace, medical, research, power and industrial markets. Its growth is based on the strategies outlined in the AMETEK Growth Model. In many instances, its products differ from or are technologically superior to its competitors products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering to develop market-leading products and solutions that serve niche markets. It also has expanded its sales and service capabilities globally to serve its customers. EIG is a leader in many of the specialized markets it serves. Products supplied to these markets include process control instruments for the oil and gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, semiconductor, automation, and food and beverage industries. It provides a growing range of instruments to the research and laboratory equipment, ultraprecision manufacturing, medical, and test and measurement markets. It is a leader in power quality monitoring and metering, uninterruptible power systems, programmable power equipment, electromagnetic compatibility ( EMC ) test equipment, sensors for gas turbines, dashboard instruments for heavy trucks, and instrumentation and controls for the food and beverage industries. It supplies the aerospace industry with aircraft and engine sensors, monitoring systems, power supplies, fuel and fluid measurement systems, and data acquisition systems. In 2019, 49% of EIG s net sales were to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2019, EIG employed approximately 10,300 people, of whom approximately 900 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2019, EIG had operating facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Switzerland, Argentina, Austria and Mexico. EIG also shares operating facilities with EMG in Brazil, China and Mexico. Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products Process and analytical instrumentation sales represented 72% of EIG s 2019 net sales. These businesses include process analyzers, emission monitors and spectrometers; elemental and surface analysis instruments; level, pressure and temperature sensors and transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement devices; precision manufacturing systems; materials- and force-testing instruments; contact and non-contact metrology products; and clinical and educational communication solutions. Among the industries it serves are oil, gas and petrochemical refining; power generation; pharmaceutical manufacturing; medical and healthcare; water and waste treatment; natural gas distribution; and semiconductor manufacturing. Its instruments are used for precision measurement in a number of applications, including radiation detection, trace element and materials analysis, nanotechnology research, ultraprecise manufacturing, and test and measurement. 6 Table of Contents Acquired in October 2019, Gatan is a leading manufacturer of instrumentation and software used to enhance and extend the operation and performance of electron microscopes. Gatan s differentiated technology solutions, premier brand and leadership positions in growth markets complements the Company s existing portfolio of specialized offerings in high-end analytical instrumentation. Acquired in November 2018, Spectro Scientific is a provider of machine condition monitoring solutions for critical assets in high-value industrial applications. Spectro Scientific s differentiated solutions serve an increasing need for predictive maintenance in a broad and growing set of end markets, including military and defense, process, power generation and transportation. Spectro Scientific expands the Company s strategy to integrate instrumentation data with cloud-based software and analytics. Acquired in October 2018, Telular is a provider of communication solutions for logistics management, tank monitoring and security applications. Telular s end-to-end solutions include purpose-built hardware, proprietary software and wireless connectivity services to enhance the efficiency and safety of critical assets. The combination of Telular s IoT capabilities and the Company s highly differentiated measurement technology provides additional growth opportunities for its businesses. Acquired in October 2018, Forza Silicon Corporation ( Forza ) is a leader in the design and production of high-performance imaging sensors used in medical, defense and industrial applications. Forza provides the Vision Research business with custom sensor design and production capability, allowing for accelerated development of next-generation sensor technology for use across the Company s market-leading, high-speed cameras. Acquired in April 2018, SoundCom Systems ( SoundCom ) is a provider of design, integration, installation and support of clinical workflow and communication systems for healthcare facilities, educational institutions and corporations. SoundCom expands Rauland s presence in the healthcare and education markets in the Midwest while providing customers with expanded value-added solutions and services. Aerospace and Power Instrumentation Markets and Products Aerospace and Power Instrumentation sales represented 28% of EIG s 2019 net sales. These businesses produce a wide array of instrumentation, systems and sensors for applications in the aerospace, power and industrial markets. These businesses produce power monitoring and metering instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide range of industrial settings. It is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement, quality monitoring and event recorders for use in power generation, transmission and distribution. It provides uninterruptible power supply systems, multifunction electric meters, annunciators, alarm monitoring systems and highly specialized communications equipment for smart grid applications. It also offers precision power supplies and power conditioning products, and electrical immunity and EMC test equipment, sensors for gas turbines, dashboard instruments for heavy trucks and other vehicles, and instrumentation and controls for the food and beverage industries. AMETEK s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. These products include airborne data systems, turbine engine temperature measurement products, vibration-monitoring systems, cockpit instruments and displays, fuel and fluid measurement products, and sensors and switches. AMETEK serves all segments of the commercial and military aerospace market, including commercial airliners, business jets, regional aircraft and helicopters. AMETEK operates in highly specialized aerospace market segments in which it has proven technological or manufacturing advantages versus its competition. Among its more significant competitive advantages is its 70-year-plus reputation as an established aerospace supplier. It has long-standing relationships with the world s 7 Table of Contents leading commercial and military aircraft, jet engine and original equipment manufacturers and aerospace system integrators. AMETEK also is a leading provider of spare part sales, repairs and overhaul services to commercial aerospace. Acquired in June 2018, Motec is a provider of integrated vision systems serving the high-growth mobile machine vision market. Motec s ruggedized vision products and integrated software solutions provide customers with improved operational efficiency and enhanced safety across a variety of critical mobile machine applications in transportation, agriculture, logistics and construction which complement the Company s existing instrumentation businesses by expanding its portfolio of solutions to its customers. Customers EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG s operations. Approximately 8% of EIG s 2019 net sales were made to its five largest customers. No single customer comprises more than 5% of net sales. EMG EMG is a differentiated supplier of automation solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. EMG is a leader in many of the niche markets in which it competes. Products supplied to these markets include its advanced precision motion control solutions, which are used in a wide range of automation applications across the medical, semiconductor, aerospace, defense, and food and beverage industries, as well as its highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used in aerospace and defense, medical, and industrial applications. EMG supplies high-purity powdered metals, strip and foil, specialty clad metals and metal matrix composites. Its blowers and heat exchangers provide electronic cooling and environmental control for the aerospace and defense industries. Its motors are widely used in commercial appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps and industrial blowers. Additionally, it operates a global network of aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul ( MRO ) facilities. EMG designs and manufactures products that, in many instances, are significantly different from or technologically superior to competitors products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering, efficiency improvements from operational excellence, acquisition synergies and improved supply chain management. In 2019, 46% of EMG s net sales were to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2019, EMG employed approximately 7,500 people, of whom approximately 1,600 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2019, EMG had operating facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, China, Germany, France, Italy, Mexico, Serbia, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Malaysia and Taiwan. Automation and Engineered Solutions Markets and Products Automation and Engineered Solution sales represented 73% of EMG s 2019 net sales. These businesses produce precision motion control solutions, brushless motors, blowers and pumps, heat exchangers and other electromechanical systems. These products are used in a wide variety of automation applications, semiconductor equipment, medical equipment and power industries among others. Additionally, these businesses produce specialty motors which are used in a wide range of products, such as household, commercial and personal care appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps and industrial blowers. AMETEK is a leader in highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used to protect sensitive devices and mission-critical electronics. Its electrical connectors, terminals, headers and packaging are 8 Table of Contents designed specifically for harsh environments and highly customized applications. In addition, AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products used in medical, aerospace and defense, telecommunications, automotive and general industrial applications. Aerospace Markets and Products Aerospace sales represented 27% of EMG s 2019 net sales. These businesses produce motor-blower systems and heat exchangers used in thermal management and other applications on a variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles. In addition, these businesses provide the commercial and military aerospace industry with third-party MRO services on a global basis with facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia. Acquired in September 2019, PDT designs and manufactures a complete range of custom-engineered, liquid cooling systems and components used in a broad set of current and next-generation commercial aerospace, defense and space platforms. PDT enhances the Company s position in the aerospace and defense sectors with its innovative technology and differentiated solutions in thermal management systems. Acquired in January 2018, FMH Aerospace ( FMH ) is a provider of complex, highly engineered solutions for the aerospace, defense and space industries. FMH s products and solutions further broaden the Company s differentiated product offerings in the aerospace and defense markets. Customers EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG s operations. Approximately 13% of EMG s 2019 net sales were made to its five largest customers. No single customer comprises greater than 5% of net sales. Marketing AMETEK s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the business level. EIG makes use of distributors and sales representatives to market its products along with a direct sales force for its technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, the specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of its many products, as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors, both in the United States and in other countries. Competition In general, AMETEK s markets are highly competitive with competition based on technology, performance, quality, service and price. In EIG s markets, AMETEK believes it ranks as a leader in certain analytical measurement and control instruments, and power and industrial markets. It also is a major instrument and sensor supplier to commercial aviation. In process and analytical instruments, numerous companies compete in each marke