Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 29 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II 31 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 65 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 71 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 170 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 170 Item 9B. Other Information 170 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 170 PART III 171 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 171 Item 11. Executive Compensation 173 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 173 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 173 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 173 PART IV 174 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 174 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 176 Signatures 177 Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 179 Index Ameriprise Financial, Inc. PART I. Item 1. Business Overview Ameriprise Financial is a diversified financial services company with a nearly 130-year history of providing solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives. Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Delaware that primarily engages in business through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, references to Ameriprise, Ameriprise Financial, the Company, we, us, and our may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. We are a long-standing leader in financial planning and advice offering a broad range of products and services designed to assist individual and institutional clients achieve their financial objectives. Our strategy is centered on helping clients confidently achieve their goals by providing holistic advice and by managing and protecting their assets and income. We utilize two go-to-market approaches in carrying out this strategy: Wealth Management and Asset Management. Wealth Management Our Advice Wealth Management business is the primary growth engine of Ameriprise with a significant market opportunity. We are in a compelling position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends driving increased demand for financial advice and solutions. In the U.S., the ongoing transition of baby boomers into retirement, as well as younger generations currently building their wealth and planning for retirement, continues to drive demand for financial advice and solutions. Our primary target market is households with $500,000 to $5,000,000 in investable assets, and we are also well-suited to serve those outside this asset range. The amount of investable assets held by investors grew at an 8% compound annual growth rate between 2016 and 2022. We also offer products and services targeted to higher-net worth households. We are an industry-leading wealth manager with a differentiated advice value proposition. Our network of more than 10,000 financial advisors (our advisors ) is the primary channel through which we carry out our wealth management activities. Our capabilities are centered on establishing long-term personal relationships between clients and advisors. Through our affiliated advisors, we offer financial planning and advice, cash management and banking products, and full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients. We design products and services as solutions for clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, retirement, protection, income generation and disbursement and estate and wealth transfer needs. The financial solutions we offer through our advisors include our own products and services as well as other providers products. We distribute our life and disability income insurance, as well as annuity products, through our advisor channel. Our advisor force is among the largest in the industry and is central to how we serve our clients. We support our advisors with an integrated technology platform, training, leadership and marketing programs to assist them in serving their clients and growing their practices. Our nationally recognized brand combined with these programs and other support creates a compelling value proposition for financial advisors relative to the broader financial services industry. This is evidenced by our strong advisor retention and satisfaction and our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors. We continuously invest in, develop, and refine capabilities and tools designed to maximize advisor productivity and client satisfaction. Asset Management Our global asset management business, represented by the Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand, offers a broad spectrum of capabilities to individual, institutional and high net worth investors. In November 2021, we purchased the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business and subsequently re-branded the business. Columbia Threadneedle investment products are primarily offered through third parties, though we also provide our asset management products through our advisor network, direct retail and through our institutional sales force. Our underlying asset management philosophy is rooted in delivering consistently strong, competitive investment performance. The quality and breadth of our asset management capabilities are demonstrated by our strong investment performance. We are positioned to grow our assets under management and strengthen our asset management offerings to existing and new clients. We benefit from key strategic relationships we have established and have a strong institutional presence. Our asset management capabilities are designed to address mature markets in the U.S. and Europe as well as expanding into new global and emerging markets. We have expanded beyond our traditional strengths in the U.S. and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) to serve more clients and gather assets worldwide. We continue to pursue opportunities to leverage the collective capabilities of our global asset management business in order to enhance our investment solutions and to develop new solutions that are responsive to client demand in an increasingly complex and competitive marketplace. History and Development Our company has provided solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives for nearly 130 years. Our earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express acquisition of IDS Financial Services from 1 Index Ameriprise Financial, Inc. Alleghany Corporation. We changed our name to American Express Financial Corporation ( AEFC ) and began marketing our products and services under the American Express brand in 1994. In 2005, AEFC spun off from American Express to form Ameriprise Financial, Inc. We have grown both organically in the products and services we provide, as well as inorganically through strategic acquisitions. This has allowed us to significantly enhance the scale, performance, and product offerings of our brokerage, financial planning, retail mutual fund and institutional asset management businesses to best serve clients. Our acquisitions have included Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings, H R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., J. W. Seligman Co. Incorporated, Columbia Management, Emerging Global Advisors, LLC, Investment Professionals, Inc., Lionstone Partners, Inc., and, most recently, BMO Financial Group s European-based asset management business, which was completed in 2021. Beyond traditional acquisitions, we pursue other strategies to grow our Wealth Management business such as experienced advisor recruiting and partnerships with banks and credit unions, like the transaction to become Comerica Bank s new investment program provider. Over the years, we have also sought to optimize the organizational structure in which we offer certain banking products. In May 2019, we received regulatory approvals and converted Ameriprise National Trust Bank to Ameriprise Bank, FSB ( Ameriprise Bank ) to expand the products and services we can provide directly to our customers. At that time, Ameriprise Financial became a savings and loan holding company subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System ( FRB ), and Ameriprise Financial elected to be classified as a financial holding company subject to applicable regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. On July 13, 2023, we announced that we withdrew our application to convert Ameriprise Bank, FSB to a state-chartered industrial bank and our application to establish a new limited purpose national trust bank. We plan to continue to operate Ameriprise Bank as we have, under the supervision of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) and continue to offer a strong lineup of banking solutions without interruption. Our Shifting Business Mix and Integrated Model The financial results from the businesses underlying our go-to-market approaches are reflected in our operating segments: Advice Wealth Management; Asset Management; Retirement Protection Solutions; and Corporate Other. 2 Index Ameriprise Financial, Inc. As a diversified financial services firm, we believe our ability to gather and retain assets is best measured by our aggregate assets under management and administration metric. As of December 31, 2023, we had $1.4 trillion in assets under management and administration, compared to $1.2 trillion as of December 31, 2022. For a more detailed discussion of assets under management and administration, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We continue to execute on our strategy to grow our Wealth Management business with complementary Asset Management and Retirement Protection Solutions businesses. The following chart shows our current business mix represented by the contributions of each segment to our pretax adjusted operating earnings (excluding Corporate Other segment) as well as a historical comparison. Our Principal Brands Our diversified products and services are offered through our brands: We use the Ameriprise Financial brand as our enterprise brand, as well as the name of our advisor network and certain of our retail products and services. Our global Columbia Threadneedle and Columbia Threadneedle Investments brands represent the combined capabilities, resources and reach of Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC (including its subsidiaries, Columbia Management ), other U.S.-based entities and Threadneedle. The foreign operations of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. are conducted primarily through Columbia Threadneedle Investments UK International Limited, TAM UK International Holdings Limited and Ameriprise Asset Management Holdings Singapore (Pte.) and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, Threadneedle ). We use our RiverSource brand for our annuity and protection products issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company ( RiverSource Life ) and RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York ( RiverSource Life of NY and, together with RiverSource Life, the RiverSource Life companies or RiverSource ). Our Segments - Advice Wealth Management We provide financial planning and advice, as well as full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients through our financial advisors. These services are centered on long-term, personal relationships between our advisors and our clients and focus on helping clients confidently achieve their financial goals. Our financial advisors provide a distinctive, holistic approach to financial planning and have access to a broad selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs and goals. Banking, lending and cash management solutions help clients establish financial flexibility while planning for both short and long- 3 Index Ameriprise Financial, Inc. term needs. As part of our goal-based approach to financial advice, our advisors help clients actively manage investing, saving and spending so they have a more complete picture of their financial life. A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based and driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net flows. We also earn revenue and income through other sources, including the following: We earn net investment income on owned assets from Ameriprise Certificate Company and Ameriprise Bank, both wholly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise. We earn financial planning fees as well as transaction and other fees. We earn distribution fees for providing non-affiliated products and intersegment revenues for providing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. Our Financial Advisor Platform With more than 10,000 advisors, we are one of the top branded advisor platforms in the U.S. market. Advisors can choose to affiliate with us in multiple ways as noted below, and each option offers different levels of support and compensation. We offer the following products and services through our Advice Wealth Management segment: Financial planning and advice services to provide personalized financial planning and financial solutions for which we charge fees and may receive sales commissions for selling products that aid in our clients plans. Discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory accounts for which we receive fees based on the assets held in that account, as well as related fees or costs associated with the underlying securities held in that account. Brokerage products and services for retail and institutional clients. Cash management and banking products, including brokerage sweep programs, cash management accounts, savings accounts, credit cards, margin loans and pledged asset lines of credit. Face-amount certificates through the Ameriprise Certificate Company, a wholly owned subsidiary. Mutual fund offerings from our own Columbia funds as well as approximately 135 unaffiliated mutual fund families, representing approximately 2,150 mutual funds on our brokerage platform for which mutual fund families and other companies generally pay us a portion of the revenue generated from sales of those funds, administrative fees, and fees from the ongoing management attributable to our clients ownership in the fund. Insurance and annuities products from both RiverSource Life companies as well as certain third parties, and we receive a portion of the revenue generated from the sale of unaffiliated products and certain administrative fees. Our Segments - Asset Management Through Columbia Threadneedle, we provide investment management, advice and products to retail, high net worth and institutional clients on a global scale. 4 Index Ameriprise Financial, Inc. Columbia Management primarily provides products and services in the United States. Threadneedle, including BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business which we acquired in 2021, primarily provides products and services internationally. Additional subsidiaries beyond Columbia Management and Threadneedle are also included in our Asset Management segment. Revenues in the Asset Management segment are primarily earned based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by market movements, net asset flows, asset allocation and product mix. We may also earn performance fees from certain accounts where investment performance meets or exceeds certain pre-identified targets. As of December 31, 2023, our Asset Management segment had $637 billion in worldwide managed assets. Our Asset Management segment also provides asset management services for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries. The fees for such services are reflected within the Asset Management segment results through intersegment transfer pricing. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice Wealth Management, Retirement Protection Solutions, and Corporate Other segments. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. Managed assets include external client assets and owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the Columbia Threadneedle Investments fund families and the assets of institutional clients. Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisers we select but do not include client assets that we advise on a non-discretionary basis such as those assets where we provide voting recommendations and engagement services but do not manage the underlying assets. Our external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, although certain investment funds marketed to investors may be consolidated at certain times. See Note 2 and Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on consolidation principles and details regarding the consolidated collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ). Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (such as the assets of the general account, cash balances invested by Ameriprise Bank and from certificate products, and the variable product funds held in the separate accounts of RiverSource Life companies) for which the Asset Management segment provides management services and receives management fees. For additional details regarding our assets under management and administration, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investment Management Capabilities and Products Our investment management business has a presence in 17 key markets globally with investment offices in seven countries, including France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Singapore, the U.K. and the U.S. Our investment management capabilities and products span a broad range of asset classes and investment styles to meet a variety of client needs with our $637 billion in assets under management diversified across geographies, strategies and clients. We offer or make available the following products and services through our Asset Management segment with a range of investment strategies across these different vehicles and accounts: U.S. registered funds through the Columbia Management family of funds, including retail mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and U.S. closed-end funds and variable insurance trust funds ( VIT Funds ) on which we earn management fees based on the underlying value of the assets and service fees. Non-U.S. retail focused funds through Columbia Threadneedle include different risk-return options across regions, markets, asset classes and product structures, which include retail funds that are similar to U.S. mutual funds (such as Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities ( UCITS ) funds organized as Luxembourg-based investment companies with variable capital ( SICAVs ) and Irish and U.K. open-end investment companies ( OEICs )). In addition, this also includes a range of listed Investment Trusts, including F C Investment Trust PLC established in 1868. European-based pooled investment funds designed for pensions, insurance companies and other institutional investors seeking solutions for liability or balance sheet asset management ( Liability Driven Investment or LDI ). 5 Index Ameriprise Financial, Inc. Institutional and retail separately managed accounts for a range of clients, including pension, profit-sharing, employee savings, sovereign wealth funds and endowment funds, accounts of large- and medium-sized businesses and governmental clients, as well as the accounts of high net worth individuals and smaller institutional clients, including tax-exempt and not-for-profit organizations for which we receive management and performance-related fees. Other separately managed accounts, including those offered through models that represent assets under advisement. Management of owned assets such as assets held in the general account of our RiverSource Life companies, Ameriprise Certificate Company and Ameriprise Bank. Management of CLOs, which includes providing collateral management services to special purpose vehicles that primarily invest in syndicated bank loans and issue multiple tranches of securities collateralized by the assets for which we earn fees based on the value of assets and performance-based fees. Private funds of various types where we provide investment management and related services to private, pooled investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships, limited liability companies, or other entities for which we may receive fees based on the value of the assets or performance-based fees. Collective funds and separately managed accounts sponsored by Ameriprise Trust Company ( ATC ) and offered to certain qualified institutional clients such as retirement, pension, and profit-sharing plans for which we receive management fees. Sub-advised accounts for certain U.S. and non-U.S. funds, private banking individually managed accounts, common trust funds, and other portfolios sponsored or advised by other firms for which we earn management fees and possibly performance-based fees. Distribution We maintain distribution teams and capabilities that aid the sales, marketing, and support of the products and services of our global asset management business. These distribution activities are generally organized into two major categories: retail distribution and institutional/high net worth distribution. However, alternatives and certain other areas have a level of specialized distribution. Our Segments - Retirement Protection Solutions RiverSource solutions are one way we deliver on the Ameriprise client experience and Confident Retirement approach. We offer clients annuities, life insurance and disability income insurance products to meet their needs or current stage in life whether that is covering essentials, ensuring lifestyle, preparing for the unexpected or leaving a legacy. RiverSource seeks to partner with our advisors to address clients goals and long-term needs at a differentiated level and provide a strong risk profile. Retirement Solutions Through our advisors, we provide RiverSource annuity products to clients to help individuals address their asset accumulation and income goals. Our advisor network is the only distributor of new RiverSource annuity products, although advisors offer fixed, variable, and structured annuities from selected unaffiliated insurers. As part of the continued evolution of the business model for our Retirement Protection Solutions segment, we focus on the accumulation solutions clients want (such as the structured variable annuity, a registered index-linked annuity). Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on a contractholder s benefit base, contract value or separate account values, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on general account assets supporting reserves for non-life contingent payout annuities, structured variable annuities, certain guaranteed benefits and fixed investment options offered with variable annuities, and on capital supporting the business. In addition, we receive fees charged on assets allocated to our separate accounts to cover administrative costs and a portion of the management fees from the underlying investment accounts in which assets are invested. Revenues for our payout annuities with a life contingent feature are earned as premium revenue. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. Protection We provide life and disability income insurance products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients. New RiverSource insurance products are exclusively offered through our advisor network. Our advisors also offer insurance products of unaffiliated carriers. The primary sources of revenues for our protection business are premiums, fees and charges we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and on capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of the RiverSource Life companies separate account assets supporting variable universal life investment options. The protection products earn intersegment revenues from fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for the protection products include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. 6 Index Ameriprise Financial, Inc. Products Through the RiverSource Life companies, we currently offer the following products: Variable annuities provide returns linked to underlying investments of the contractholder s choice of certain funds, as well as additional benefits, such as guaranteed minimum death benefits (but without living benefits for new sales after mid-2022). Structured variable annuities use the performance of an underlying equity market index to determine earnings, subject to either a cap or floor. Variable universal life insurance provides life insurance coverage along with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the policyholder s choice. Universal life insurance credits interest at fixed interest rates. Universal life insurance may also contain product features that credit interest at a rate linked to an underlying equity market index. Term life insurance provides a death benefit, but it does not accumulate cash value. Disability income insurance provides monthly benefits to individuals who are unable to earn income either at their occupation at time of disability or at any suitable occupation for premium payments that are guaranteed not to change. Our sales of RiverSource individual life insurance in 2023, as measured by scheduled annual premiums, lump sum and excess premiums and single premiums, consisted of approximately 95% variable universal life, 2% universal life and 3% term life. Reinsurance We reinsure a portion of the insurance risks associated with our currently offered life and disability income products (as well as previously sold fixed annuity, fixed indexed annuity, life contingent payout annuity and long term care products) through reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. We use reinsurance to limit losses, reduce exposure to large risks and provide additional capacity for continued product offerings. To manage exposure to losses from reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties and on a periodic basis during the terms of the treaties. Our RiverSource Life companies remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. See Note 7 and Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on reinsurance. At a general level, we reinsure some or all of the following (with the closed blocks in our Corporate Other segment): Product Reinsurance Type Term Life and Disability Income Coinsurance Universal Life Variable Universal Life Renewable Term Life Contingent Payout Annuity Coinsurance Fixed Annuity (closed block in Corporate Other) Coinsurance Long Term Care (closed block in Corporate Other) Coinsurance Our Segments - Corporate Other Our Corporate Other segment consists of closed blocks of business and net investment income or loss on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues as well as unallocated corporate expenses. Closed Block Long Term Care Insurance Prior to December 31, 2002, the RiverSource Life companies underwrote stand-alone long term care ( LTC ) insurance. We discontinued offering LTC insurance as of December 31, 2002. A large majority of our closed block LTC is comprised of nursing home indemnity LTC or comprehensive reimbursement LTC. Generally, our policyholders are eligible for LTC benefits if they become cognitively impaired or unable to perform certain activities of daily living. Nursing home indemnity LTC policies provide a predefined daily benefit if the insured is confined to a nursing home, subject to various maximum benef