Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. [Reserved] 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 150 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 150 Item 9B. Other Information 151 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 151 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 152 Item 11. Executive Compensation 154 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 154 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 154 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 154 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 156 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 158 Signatures 159 Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 161 2 PART I. Item 1. Business Overview Ameriprise Financial is a diversified financial services company with a more than 125-year history of providing solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives. Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Delaware that primarily engages in business through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, references to Ameriprise, Ameriprise Financial, the Company, we, us, and our may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. We are a long-standing leader in financial planning and advice offering a broad range of products and services designed to achieve individual and institutional clients financial objectives. Our strategy is centered on helping our clients confidently achieve their goals by providing holistic advice and by managing and protecting their assets and income. We utilize two go-to-market approaches in carrying out this strategy: Wealth Management and Asset Management. Wealth Management Our Advice Wealth Management business is the primary growth engine of Ameriprise with a significant market opportunity. We are in a compelling position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends driving increased demand for financial advice and solutions. In the U.S., the ongoing transition of baby boomers into retirement, as well as Generation X and Millennials planning for retirement, continues to drive demand for financial advice and solutions. The amount of investable assets held by mass affluent and affluent households (our primary target market) is growing and now accounts for over half of U.S. investable assets. We define mass affluent and affluent as households with investable assets of more than $100,000, and we are increasingly focused on those with $500,000 to $5,000,000 in investable assets. We are an industry-leading wealth manager with a differentiated advice value proposition. Our network of over 10,000 financial advisors (our advisors ) is the primary channel through which we carry out our wealth management activities. Our capabilities are centered on establishing long-term personal relationships between our clients and our advisors. Through our affiliated advisors, we offer financial planning and advice, as well as banking and full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients. We design products and services as solutions for our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, retirement, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. The financial solutions we offer through our advisors also include other providers products as well as our own products and services. We distribute our own life and disability income insurance, as well as variable and structured annuity products through our advisor channel. Our advisor force is among the largest in the industry and is central to how we serve our clients. We support our advisors with an integrated technology platform, training, leadership and marketing programs to assist them in serving their clients and growing their practices. Our nationally recognized brand combined with these programs and other support creates a compelling value proposition for financial advisors across the financial services industry. This is evidenced by our strong advisor retention and satisfaction and our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors. We continuously invest in, develop, and refine capabilities and tools designed to maximize advisor productivity and client satisfaction. Asset Management Our global asset management capabilities, represented by the Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand (which now also includes the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business we purchased in November 2021), offer a broad spectrum of investment advice and products to individual, institutional and high net worth investors. We refer to the entities purchased in this transaction (BMO Global Asset Management (Europe) Limited and its subsidiaries, BMO Global Asset Management (Asia) Limited, Pyrford International Limited and LGM Investments Limited) broadly as the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business. Columbia Threadneedle s investment products are primarily offered through third parties, though we also provide our asset management products through our advisor network and through our institutional sales force. Our underlying asset management philosophy is rooted in delivering consistently strong, competitive investment performance. The quality and breadth of our asset management capabilities are demonstrated by 133 of our mutual funds globally being rated as four- and five-star funds by Morningstar. We are positioned to continue to grow our assets under management and strengthen our asset management offerings to existing and new clients. We benefit from key strategic relationships we have established and have a strong institutional presence. Our asset management capabilities are designed to address mature markets in the U.S. and Europe as well as expanding into new global and emerging markets. In the past few years and continuing with our recent acquisition of the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business, we have expanded beyond our traditional strengths in the U.S. and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) to serve more clients and gather assets in Continental Europe, Asia, Australia and New Zealand, the Middle East, South America and Africa. We continue to pursue opportunities to leverage the collective capabilities of our global asset management business in order to enhance our investment solutions and to develop new solutions that are responsive to client demand in an increasingly complex and competitive marketplace. 3 History and Development Our company has provided solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives for more than 125 years. Our earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express acquisition of IDS Financial Services from Alleghany Corporation. We changed our name to American Express Financial Corporation ( AEFC ) and began marketing our products and services under the American Express brand in 1994. In 2005, AEFC spun off from American Express to form Ameriprise Financial, Inc. We have grown both organically in the products and services we provide, as well as inorganically through strategic acquisitions. This has allowed us to significantly enhance the scale, performance, and product offerings of our brokerage, financial planning, retail mutual funds and institutional asset management business in order to best serve our clients. Some of our acquisitions include Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings, H R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., J. W. Seligman Co. Incorporated, Columbia Management, Emerging Global Advisors, LLC, Investment Professionals, Inc., and Lionstone Partners, Inc. Most recently, we acquired BMO Financial Group s European-based asset management business on November 8, 2021, to extend our reach in EMEA and add important capabilities to Columbia Threadneedle. In order to focus our resources and advance our corporate strategy, we have divested or reinsured some of our businesses, including the 2019 sale of our Ameriprise Auto and Home Insurance business to American Family Insurance Mutual Holding Company and our 2019 and 2021 fixed annuity reinsurance transactions of approximately $1.7 billion and $7.0 billion of fixed annuity policies, respectively. Over the years, we have also sought to optimize the structure in which we offer certain banking products. In May 2019, we received regulatory approvals and converted Ameriprise National Trust Bank to Ameriprise Bank, FSB to expand the products and services we can provide directly to our customers. At that time, Ameriprise Financial became a savings and loan holding company that is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System ( FRB ), and Ameriprise Financial elected to be classified as a financial holding company subject to applicable regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. In June 2021, we filed an application to convert Ameriprise Bank, FSB to a state-chartered industrial bank regulated by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as well as a separate application to transition the FSB s personal trust services business to a new limited purpose national trust bank regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Our applications are currently pending. Our Shifting Business Mix and Integrated Model The financial results from the businesses underlying our go-to-market approaches are reflected in our operating segments: Advice Wealth Management; Asset Management; Retirement Protection Solutions; and Corporate Other. 4 As a diversified financial services firm, we believe our ability to gather assets is best measured by our aggregate assets under management and administration metric. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.4 trillion in assets under management and administration compared to $1.1 trillion as of December 31, 2020. For a more detailed discussion of assets under management and administration, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We continue to execute on our strategy to shift our business mix toward lower capital, fee-based business. The following chart shows our current business mix represented by the contributions of each segment to our pretax adjusted operating earnings (excluding Corporate Other segment) as well as a historical comparison. Our Principal Brands Our diversified products and services are offered through our brands: We use the Ameriprise Financial brand as our enterprise brand, as well as the name of our advisor network and certain of our retail products and services. Our global Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand represents the combined capabilities, resources and reach of Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC (including its subsidiaries, Columbia Management ) and Threadneedle. The foreign operations of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. are conducted primarily through Columbia Threadneedle Investments UK International Limited, TAM UK International Holdings Limited and Ameriprise Asset Management Holdings Singapore (Pte.) and their respective subsidiaries (collectively, Threadneedle ). We plan to rebrand the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business over the course of 2022 under the Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand, and we are currently using the BMO mark under a license during a transition period. We use our RiverSource brand for our annuity and protection products issued by RiverSource Life Insurance Company ( RiverSource Life ) and RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York ( RiverSource Life of NY and, together with RiverSource Life, the RiverSource Life companies ). Our Segments - Advice Wealth Management We provide financial planning and advice, as well as full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients through our financial advisors. These services are centered on long-term, personal relationships between our advisors and our clients and focus on helping clients confidently achieve their financial goals. Our financial advisors provide a distinctive, holistic approach to financial planning and have access to a broad selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs and goals. 5 A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based and driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from Ameriprise Certificate Company and Ameriprise Bank, both wholly owned subsidiaries of Ameriprise, and we earn financial planning fees as well as transaction and other fees. In addition, this segment earns revenue from distribution fees for providing non-affiliated products and intersegment revenues from distribution fees for providing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. Our Financial Advisor Platform With over 10,000 advisors, we are one of the top branded advisor platforms in the U.S. market where we provide our services. Advisors can choose to affiliate with us in multiple ways as noted below, and each option offers different levels of support and compensation. We offer the following products and services through our Advice Wealth Management segment: Financial planning and advice services to provide personalized financial planning and financial solutions for which we charge fees and may receive sales commissions for selling products that aid in the client s plan. Discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory accounts for which we receive fees based on the assets held in that account, as well as related fees or costs associated with the underlying securities held in that account. Brokerage products and services for retail and institutional clients. Mutual fund offerings from our own Columbia Management family as well as approximately 150 unaffiliated mutual fund families, representing more than 2,200 mutual funds on our brokerage platform for which mutual fund families and other companies generally pay us a portion of the revenue generated from sales of those funds, administrative fees, and fees from the ongoing management attributable to our clients ownership in the fund. Insurance and annuities products from both RiverSource Life companies as well as certain third parties, and we receive a portion of the revenue generated from the sale of unaffiliated products and certain administrative fees. Cash management and banking products including broker sweep programs, cash management accounts, credit cards, margin loans and pledged asset lines of credit. Face-Amount Certificates through the Ameriprise Certificate Company, a wholly owned subsidiary, and our earnings are based on the difference between the interest rates credited to certificate holders and the interest earned on the cash invested. Our Segments - Asset Management Through Columbia Threadneedle Investments (including our newly acquired BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business), we provide investment management, advice and products to retail, high net worth and institutional clients on a global scale. Columbia Management primarily provides products and services in the United States. Threadneedle, which is integrating our newly acquired BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business, primarily provides products and services internationally. Additional subsidiaries beyond Columbia Management and Threadneedle are also included in our Asset Management segment. 6 Revenues in the Asset Management segment are primarily earned based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by market movements, net asset flows, asset allocation and product mix. We may also earn performance fees from certain accounts where investment performance meets or exceeds certain pre-identified targets. As of December 31, 2021, our Asset Management segment had $754 billion in worldwide managed assets. Our Asset Management segment also provides intercompany asset management services for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries. The fees for such services are reflected within the Asset Management segment results through intersegment transfer pricing. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice Wealth Management and Retirement Protection Solutions segments. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. Managed assets include external client assets and owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the Columbia Threadneedle Investments fund families and the assets of institutional clients. Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisers we select but do not include client assets that we advise on a non-discretionary basis such as those assets where we provide voting recommendations and engagement services but do not manage the underlying assets. Our external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, although certain investment funds marketed to investors may be consolidated at certain times. See Note 2 and Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on consolidation principles and details regarding the consolidated collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ). Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (such as the assets of the general account and the variable product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries) for which the Asset Management segment provides management services and receives management fees. For additional details regarding our assets under management and administration, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investment Management Capabilities and Products The investment management activities of Columbia Threadneedle Investments are conducted through specialized investment management teams located around the globe, including Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Hong Kong, Houston, London, Los Angeles, Menlo Park, Minneapolis, New York, Portland and Singapore. Our investment management capabilities and products span a broad range of asset classes and investment styles to meet a variety of client needs. Looking at the type of the $754 billion in assets we manage, we have approximately 54% in equity, 37% in fixed income, 5% in alternatives (which includes real estate, CLOs, private equity, hedge funds, infrastructure and commodities), 3% in hybrids and other and 1% in money market. We offer or make available the following products and services through our Asset Management segment with a range of investment strategies across these different vehicles and accounts: U.S. Registered Funds to the Columbia Management family of funds including retail mutual funds, exchange-listed exchange-traded funds and U.S. closed-end funds and variable insurance trust funds ( VIT Funds ) on which we earn management fees for managing the assets of the Columbia Management family of mutual funds based on the underlying value of the assets and service fees. Non-U.S. retail focused funds through Threadneedle, and now expanded with the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business, include different risk-return options across regions, markets, asset classes and product structures, which include retail funds that are similar to U.S. mutual funds (such as Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities ( UCITS ) funds organized as Luxembourg-based investment companies with variable capital ( SICAVs ) and Irish and UK open-end investment companies ( OEICs ). In addition, as a result of acquisition of the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business, this now also includes a range of listed Investment Trusts, including F C Investment Trust PLC established in 1868. European-based pooled investment funds designed for pensions, insurance companies and other institutional investors seeking solutions for liability or balance sheet asset management ( Liability Driven Investment or LDI ). Institutional and retail separately managed accounts for a range of clients, including pension, profit-sharing, employee savings, sovereign wealth funds and endowment funds, accounts of large- and medium-sized businesses and governmental clients, as well as the accounts of high net worth individuals and smaller institutional clients, including tax-exempt and not-for-profit organizations for which we receive management and performance-related fees. Other separately managed accounts, including those offered through models that represent assets under advisement. Management of owned assets such as assets held in the general account of our RiverSource Life companies, Ameriprise Certificate Company, and Ameriprise Bank. Management of CLOs, which includes providing collateral management services to special purpose vehicles which primarily invest in syndicated bank loans and issue multiple tranches of securities collateralized by the assets to provide investors with various maturity and credit risk characteristics for which we earn fees based on the value of assets and performance-based fees. Private funds of various types where we provide investment management and related services to private, pooled investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships, limited liability companies, or non-U.S. entities for which we may receive fees based on the value of the assets or performance-based fees. 7 Collective funds and separately managed accounts sponsored by Ameriprise Trust Company ( ATC ) and offered to certain qualified institutional clients such as retirement, pension, and profit-sharing plans for which it receives management fees. Sub-advised accounts for certain U.S. and non-U.S. funds, private banking individually managed accounts, common trust funds, and other portfolios sponsored or advised by other firms for which we earn management fees and possibly performance-based fees. Distribution We maintain distribution teams and capabilities that aid the sales, marketing, and support of the products and services of our global asset management business. These distribution activities are generally organized into two major categories: retail distribution and institutional/high net worth distribution. However, alternatives and certain other areas have a level of specialized distribution. Retail Distribution Columbia Management funds are sold through both unaffiliated third-party financial intermediaries and our Advice Wealth Management segment. Fees and reimbursements paid to such intermediaries may vary based on sales, redemptions, asset values, asset allocation, product mix, and marketing and support activities provided by the intermediary. Intersegment distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice Wealth Management segment are eliminated in our consolidated results. Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of our Columbia Management family of funds. Pursuant to distribution agreements with the funds, we offer and sell fund shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with the marketing and selling of shares. We earn commissions for distributing the Columbia Management funds through sales charges on certain classes of shares and distribution (12b-1) and servicing-related fees based on a percentage of fund assets and receive intersegment allocation payments. This revenue is impacted by overall asset levels and mix of the funds. Threadneedle and BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) funds are sold primarily through financial intermediaries and institutions, including banks, life insurance companies, independent financial advisers, wealth managers and platforms offering a variety of investment products. Threadneedle and BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) also distribute directly to certain clients. In particular, the BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) business operates direct to consumer savings plans that allow retail investors to purchase at their discretion shares in the investment trusts managed by this business. Various affiliates serve as the distributors of these fund offerings and are authorized to engage in such activities in numerous countries across Europe, the Middle East, the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America and Africa. Certain Threadneedle and BMO Global Asset Management (EMEA) fund offerings, such as its EU UCITS products, may be distributed on a cross-border basis while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. Institutional and High Net Worth Distribution We offer separately managed account services and certain funds to high net worth clients and to a wide variety of institutional clients, including pension plans, employee savings plans, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, endowments, corporations, banks, trusts, governmental entities, high net worth individuals and not-for-profit organizations. We provide investment management services for insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries. We also provide a variety of services for our institutional clients that sponsor retirement plans. We have dedicated institutional sales teams that market directly to such institutional clients. We concentrate on establishing strong relationships with both institutional clients as well as leading global and national consultancy firms across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, New Zealand and Australia. Our Segments - Retirement Protection Solutions RiverSource solutions help deliver on the Ameriprise client experience and Confident Retirement approach. We offer clients annuities, life insurance, and disability insurance options to meet their needs or current stage in life whether that is covering essentials, ensuring lifestyle, preparing for the unexpected or leaving a legacy. RiverSource seeks to partner with our advisors to address clients goals and long-term needs at a differentiated level and provide a strong risk profile given the clients our advisors serve. Retirement Solutions We provide RiverSource variable annuity products to clients to help individuals address their asset accumulation and income goals through our advisors. Our advisor network is the only distributor of RiverSource annuity products, although advisors can offer fixed and variable annuities from selected unaffiliated insurers as well. As part of the continued evolution of our business model, we are continuing to shift our focus away from annuities with living benefit guarantees and toward the accumulation solutions clients want (such as the structured solutions annuity we introduced in 2020). We discontinued new sales of substantially all of our living benefit annuity solutions at the end of 2021. Further, in 2020, we discontinued new sales of fixed annuities and moved the Fixed Annuities and Fixed Indexed Annuities blocks to the Corporate Other segment as a closed block in addition to reinsuring over 90% of the fixed annuities in this closed block (as discussed below in more detail). Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on a contractholder s benefit base, contract value or separate account values, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on general account assets supporting reserves for immediate annuities with a non-life contingent feature, structured variable annuities, for certain guaranteed benefits and fixed investment options offered with variable annuities, and on capital supporting the business. In addition, we receive fees charged on assets allocated to our separate accounts to cover administrative costs and a portion of the management fees from the underlying investment accounts in which assets are invested. Revenues for our immediate annuities with a 8 life contingent feature are earned as premium revenue. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds previously discussed. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. Protection We provide life and disability income insurance products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients. Though our advisors may also offer insurance products of unaffiliated carriers, we offer RiverSource insurance products exclusively through our advisors. The primary sources of revenues for our protection business are premiums, fees and charges we receive to as