Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2. Properties 42 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 44 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 45 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 83 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 89 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 168 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 168 Item 9B. Other Information 169 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 169 Item 11. Executive Compensation 171 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 172 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 172 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 172 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 173 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 175 Signatures 176 Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant 178 2 PART I. Item 1. Business Overview Ameriprise is a diversified financial services company with a 125-year history of providing solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives. Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in Delaware that primarily engages in business through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, references to Ameriprise, Ameriprise Financial, the Company, we, us, and our may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. Our headquarters is located at 55 Ameriprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474. We also maintain executive offices in New York City. We are a long-standing leader in financial planning and advice with $973 billion in assets under management and administration as of December 31, 2019. We offer a broad range of products and services designed to achieve individual and institutional clients financial objectives. Our strategy is centered on helping our clients confidently achieve their goals by providing holistic advice and by managing and protecting their assets and income. We utilize two go-to-market approaches in carrying out this strategy: Wealth Management and Asset Management. Wealth Management We are an industry-leading wealth manager with a differentiated advice value proposition. Our network of approximately 10,000 advisors is the primary means through which we engage in our wealth management activities. Accordingly, our wealth management capabilities are centered on the long-term, personal relationships between our clients and our financial advisors (our advisors ). Through our affiliated advisors, we offer financial planning and advice, as well as banking and full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients. These products and services are designed to be used as solutions for our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. The financial product solutions we offer through our advisors include the products of other companies as well as our own products and services. Our advisor network is the primary channel through which we offer our own life and disability income insurance as well as annuity products and services. Our focus on personal relationships, as demonstrated by our exclusive Confident Retirement approach to financial planning, allows us to address our clients evolving financial and retirement-related needs to help them live brilliantly, now and in the future. Over the years of responding to the needs of our clients and executing on our business strategy, we moved our target upmarket. Currently, our primary target market segment is the mass affluent and affluent (which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000), and increasingly those with $500,000 to $5,000,000 in investable assets. Our advisors are a valued and crucial part of our business. As such, we offer our advisors training, tools, leadership, marketing programs and other field and centralized support to assist them in serving their clients. Our nationally recognized brand combined with our practice support, local marketing and field support, integrated operating platform, practice expansion and succession opportunities and comprehensive set of products and solutions creates a compelling value proposition for financial advisors. This is evidenced by our strong advisor retention rate and our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors. We continuously invest in, develop, and refine capabilities and tools designed to maximize advisor productivity and client satisfaction. We are in a compelling position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends driving increased demand for financial advice and solutions. In the U.S., the ongoing transition of baby boomers into retirement continues to drive demand for financial advice and solutions. In addition, the amount of investable assets held by mass affluent and affluent households (our target market) has grown and now accounts for over half of U.S. investable assets. We believe our differentiated financial planning model, broad range of products and solutions, and demonstrated financial strength throughout times of economic and market uncertainty position us to capitalize on these trends and best serve our clients in achieving their goals. Asset Management Our asset management capabilities, represented by the Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand, are global in scale. We offer a broad spectrum of investment advice and products to individual, institutional and high-net worth investors. These investment products are primarily provided through third parties, though we also provide our asset management products through our advisor network. Our underlying asset management philosophy is rooted in delivering consistently strong, competitive investment performance. The quality and breadth of our asset management capabilities are demonstrated by 116 of our mutual funds being rated as four- and five-star funds by Morningstar. This strong short and long-term investment performance is further supported by our client-focused approach. We are positioned to continue to grow our assets under management in the long-term and strengthen our asset management offerings to existing and new clients. We enjoy a significant benefit from key strategic relationships and have a strong institutional presence. Our asset management capabilities are well positioned to address mature markets in the U.S. and Europe. We also continue to leverage our existing strengths in order to effectively expand into new global and emerging markets. In the past few years, we have expanded beyond our traditional strengths in the U.S. and UK to gather assets in Continental Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, South America and Africa. In addition, we continue to identify and pursue opportunities to leverage the collective capabilities of our global asset management business in order to enhance our current range of investment solutions, to develop new solutions and investment management strategies that are responsive to client demand in an increasingly complex marketplace, and to maximize the distribution capabilities of our global business. 3 Our Integrated Model and Shift in Business Mix Financial markets and macroeconomic conditions have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our operating and performance results. In addition, the business, political and regulatory environments in which we operate are subject to elevated uncertainty and substantial, frequent change. Accordingly, we expect to continue focusing on our key strategic objectives and obtaining operational and strategic leverage from our core capabilities. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the factors discussed below in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K - Risk Factors - and other factors as discussed herein. The financial results from the businesses underlying our go-to-market approaches are reflected in our five operating segments: Advice Wealth Management; Asset Management; Annuities; Protection; and Corporate Other. We believe we offer a compelling and highly differentiated value proposition through our diversified and fully integrated model - as shown by nearly doubling earnings per share in the past five years and returning nearly $11 billion to shareholders in that timeframe, while retaining significant excess capital at December 31, 2019. As a diversified financial services firm, we believe our ability to gather assets is best measured by our aggregate assets under management and administration metric. At December 31, 2019, we had $973 billion in assets under management and administration compared to $823 billion as of December 31, 2018. For a more detailed discussion of assets under management and administration, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 The following chart shows our current business mix represented by the contributions of each segment to our pretax adjusted operating earnings (excluding Corporate Other segment) as well as a historical comparison. As you can see, we continue to execute on our strategy to shift our business mix toward lower capital, fee-based business including Advice Wealth Management, which is the growth engine of Ameriprise and now represents a majority of pretax adjusted operated earnings. Our Principal Brands We utilize multiple and distinct brands for the products and services because we believe doing so allows us to differentiate them in the marketplace. We use the Ameriprise Financial brand as our enterprise brand, as well as the name of our advisor network and certain of our retail products and services. The retail products and services that use the Ameriprise Financial brand include those that we provide through our advisors (e.g., financial planning services, investment advisory accounts, retail brokerage services and banking products) and products and services that we market directly to consumers or through affinity groups. Our global Columbia Threadneedle Investments brand represents the combined capabilities, resources and reach of Columbia Management and Threadneedle. This brand reinforces the strength of both firms in their established markets of the UK, Europe and the U.S. and helps us grow our presence in key markets including Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. We use our RiverSource brand for our annuity and protection products issued by the RiverSource Life companies, including our life and disability income insurance products. History and Development Our company has a 125 year history of providing solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives. Our earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers with a need for conservative investments. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express acquisition of IDS Financial Services from Alleghany Corporation in 1984. We changed our name to American Express Financial Corporation ( AEFC ) and began marketing our products and services under the American Express brand in 1994. To provide retail clients with a more comprehensive set of products and services, we significantly expanded our offering of non-proprietary mutual funds in the late 1990s. In addition, we acquired the business of Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings in 2003 to enhance our global asset management capabilities. On September 30, 2005, American Express consummated a distribution of the shares of AEFC to American Express shareholders, at which time we became an independent, publicly traded company and changed our name to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. In 2008, we completed the acquisitions of H R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. and J. W. Seligman Co. Incorporated. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long-term asset management business of Columbia Management from Bank of America. In 2016, we completed the acquisition of Emerging Global Advisors, LLC, a registered investment advisor and provider of strategic beta portfolios based on emerging markets. In 2017, we acquired Investment Professionals, Inc. ( IPI ), an independent broker-dealer specializing in the on-site delivery of investment programs for financial institutions, including banks and credit unions. In 2017, we also acquired Lionstone 5 Partners, LLC, a leading national real estate investment firm, specializing in investment strategies based upon proprietary analytics. This inorganic growth has allowed us to significantly enhance the scale, performance, and product offerings of our brokerage, financial planning, retail mutual funds and institutional asset management business in order to best serve our clients. In 2006, we sold our large-scale retirement plan recordkeeping business to Wachovia Bank, N.A. (now Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.). We initiated the disposition of our institutional trust and custody business to J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. in 2008, and completed that restructuring in early 2009. In 2011, we completed the sale of Securities America Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries to Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services, Inc. On October 1, 2019, we completed the sale of our Ameriprise Auto and Home Insurance business to American Family Insurance Mutual Holding Company (American Family Insurance). In 2018, we made the strategic decision to seek to expand the banking products and services we can provide directly to our clients, and commenced the process to convert our subsidiary Ameriprise National Trust Bank into a federal savings bank with the capabilities to offer FDIC insured deposits and a range of lending products. We completed that process, received regulatory approvals and converted Ameriprise National Trust Bank to Ameriprise Bank, FSB in May 2019, at which time Ameriprise Financial became a savings and loan holding company that is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System ( FRB ). In connection with the conversion, Ameriprise Financial elected to be classified as a financial holding company subject to applicable regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (as amended). Our Organization The following is a depiction of the organizational structure for our company and the primary subsidiaries (identified by their current legal entity names) through which we operate our businesses. The following is a brief description of the business and activities conducted by each subsidiary noted above. Subsidiary Name Description of Business Ameriprise International Holdings GmbH A holding company based in Switzerland for various companies engaged in our non-U.S. business, including our Threadneedle group of companies (defined below) Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings S rl A holding company based in Luxembourg for the EMEA region group of companies that provide investment management products and services Ameriprise Asset Management Holdings GmbH A holding company based in Switzerland for our non-EMEA region group of companies that provide investment management products and services. We refer to the group of companies in this entity and Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl as Threadneedle and Threadneedle is our primary provider of non-U.S. investment management products and services. Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC ( Columbia Management ) The investment adviser for the majority of the Columbia Management family of funds ( Columbia Management funds ) and to U.S. and non-U.S. institutional accounts and private funds 6 J. W. Seligman Co. Incorporated ( Seligman ) A holding company for Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. and certain other subsidiaries within our Asset Management segment Lionstone Partners, LLC ( Lionstone Investments ) The U.S. investment adviser for certain private funds and investment products focused on real estate Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. Broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and distributor for Columbia Management funds Columbia Management Investment Services Corp. A transfer agent that processes client transactions for Columbia Management funds and Ameriprise face-amount certificates AMPF Holding Corporation A holding company for certain of our retail brokerage and advisory subsidiaries, including AFS (defined below) and AEIS (defined below) American Enterprise Investment Services Inc. ( AEIS ) As our registered clearing broker-dealer subsidiary, brokerage transactions for accounts introduced by AFS are executed, cleared and settled through AEIS Ameriprise Financial Services, LLC ( AFS ) A registered broker-dealer and registered investment adviser, and our primary financial planning and retail distribution subsidiary (previously Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. until January 2020) RiverSource Distributors, Inc. ( RiverSource Distributors ) A broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and/or distributor for our RiverSource annuities and insurance products sold through AFS and third-party channels RiverSource Life Insurance Company ( RiverSource Life ) Conducts its insurance and annuity business in states other than New York RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York ( RiverSource Life of NY ) Conducts its insurance and annuity businesses in the State of New York. RiverSource Life of NY is a wholly owned subsidiary of RiverSource Life. We refer to RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY as the RiverSource Life companies Ameriprise Certificate Company Issues a variety of face-amount certificates Ameriprise Trust Company ( ATC ) Provides trust services to individuals and businesses Ameriprise Bank, FSB ( Ameriprise Bank ) Offers a variety of consumer banking deposit, credit, and personal trust and related services Our Segments - Advice Wealth Management Our Advice Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients through our financial advisors. These services are centered on long-term, personal relationships between our advisors and our clients and focus on helping clients confidently achieve their financial goals. Our financial advisors provide a distinctive, holistic approach to financial planning and have access to a broad selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs and goals. A significant portion of revenues in this segment are fee-based and driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for providing non-affiliated products and intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for providing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. Our Financial Advisor Platform With approximately 10,000 advisors, we are a top 5 branded platform in the U.S. market where we provide our services. Advisors can choose to affiliate with us in multiple ways, and each option offers different levels of support and compensation. The affiliation options are: Employee Advisors (Ameriprise Advisor Group). Under this option, an advisor is an employee of our company and receives a higher level of support, including leadership, training, office space and staff support. We pay compensation that is competitive with other employee advisor models, which is generally lower than that of our franchisee advisors in exchange for the higher level of support we provide our employee advisors. Some employee advisors work in the Ameriprise Advisor Center ( AAC ), our dedicated platform for remote-based sales and service to Ameriprise retail customers using a team model. Franchisee Advisors (Ameriprise Franchise Group). Under this option, an advisor is an independent contractor franchisee who affiliates with our company and has the right to use the Ameriprise brand. We pay our franchisee advisors a higher payout rate than our employee advisors as they are responsible for paying their own overhead, staff compensation and other 7 business expenses. In addition, our franchisee advisors pay a franchise association fee and other fees in exchange for the support we offer and the right to use our brand name. The support we offer to our franchisee advisors includes generalist and specialist leadership support, technology platforms and tools, training and marketing programs. Bank Channel Advisors (Ameriprise Financial Institutions Group). Our acquisition of IPI in 2017 added a new capability where we specialize in the on-site delivery of investment programs for financial institutions including banks and credit unions. Within this channel, we have different types of relationships with our financial institution partners and a variety of ways for advisors to affiliate with us. We are committed to providing our advisors with the resources and support necessary to manage and grow their practices. Our platform offers advisors (and therefore clients) the flexibility of operating on a commission-based brokerage basis as well as on a fee-based advisory basis. Advisors have access to training and materials reflecting our differentiated financial planning model and Confident Retirement planning approach, our nationally recognized brand and Be Brilliant advertising campaign, local marketing support capabilities and our full range of proprietary and non-proprietary advice and product solutions. Our advisor practices also benefit from Ameriprise s demonstrated financial strength and our dedication to our clients. We expect to continue to invest in our advisor platform, with the goal of continuing to best serve our clients, increasing advisor productivity, and improving our ability to attract and retain advisors. Our nationwide advisor network consisted of approximately 10,000 advisors as of December 31, 2019, which includes over 2,100 employee advisors and advisors in our bank channel as well as approximately 7,800 independent franchisees or employees or contractors of franchisees. Of these advisors, roughly 56% have been with us for more than 10 years, with an average tenure of over 20 years. Among advisors who have been with us for more than 10 years, we have a retention rate of approximately 95%. We believe our strong advisor retention rate, as well as our ability to recruit experienced advisors, speaks to the value proposition we offer our advisors and clients. Through our advisors, we offer clients a diversified set of cash and liquidity management, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer products and services, as well as a broad selection of financial products from other unaffiliated companies (as described below). Brokerage and Investment Advisory Services Financial Planning and Advice Services Our personalized financial planning approach is designed to focus on all aspects of our clients finances. After understanding our clients needs, our advisors seek to identify solutions to address those needs across four cornerstones: cash and liabilities, investments, protection, and taxes. We believe this approach helps our clients build a solid financial foundation, persevere through difficult economies and challenging markets, and ultimately achieve their financial goals. We offer a broad array of products and services in each of these categories, including those carrying the Ameriprise Financial, Columbia Management, Columbia Threadneedle Investments or RiverSource name, as well as solutions offered by unaffiliated firms. Our advisors deliver financial solutions to our advisory clients principally by building long-term personal relationships through financial planning that is responsive to clients evolving needs, priorities and goals, in part through our exclusive Confident Retirement approach. This approach involves a comprehensive assessment of retirement income sources and assets, a client s plans and goals for retirement, and an analysis of what is needed to fund the four principal types of expenses and liabilities encountered during retirement: covering essentials, ensuring lifestyle, preparing for the unexpected, and leaving a legacy. Once a financial planning client and their advisor align on a client s objectives, the advisor recommends a solution set consisting of actions and offers products to address those objectives. In continued partnership with their advisor, a client then identifies what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of market risk. Our financial planning relationships with our clients are characterized by an ability to understand their specific needs, which enables us to help them meet those needs, achieve high overall client satisfaction and retention, hold more products in their accounts and increase our assets under management. Our financial planning clients pay a fee for the receipt of financial planning services. This fee is based on the complexity of a client s financial and life situation and their advisor s experience. Some of our clients may elect to pay a consolidated, asset-based advisory fee for financial planning and managed account services and administration. If clients elect to implement their financial plan with our company, we and our advisors generally receive a sales commission and/or sales load in addition to other revenues for the products that they purchase from us. These commissions, sales loads and other revenues are separate from, and in addition to, the financial planning and advisory fees we and our advisors may receive. Brokerage and Other Products and Services We offer our retail and institutional clients a variety of brokerage and other investment products and services. Our Ameriprise ONE Financial Account is a single integrated financial management brokerage account that enables clients to access a single cash account to fund a variety of financial transactions, including investments in mutual funds, individual securities, alternative investments, cash products, and margin and securities-based lending. We provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Clients can use our online brokerage service to purchase and sell securities, obtain proprietary and independent research (including information about a wide variety of securities) and use self-directed asset allocation and other financial planning tools. We 8 offer exchange traded mutual funds, 529 plans, public non-exchange traded real estate investment trusts, structured notes, private equity and other alternative investments issued by unaffiliated companies. We also offer trading and portfolio strategy services across a number of fixed income categories, including treasuries, municipals, corporate, and mortgage- and asset-backed securities on both a proprietary and agency basis. From time to time, Ameriprise may participate in syndicate offerings of closed-end funds and preferred securities. Syndicates are groups of investment banks and broker-dealers that jointly underwrite and distribute new security offerings to the investing public. Our clients may purchase, for their own account, the closed-end fund shares and preferred stock of such primary offerings in which we participate. In addition, qualified clients may purchase certain privately placed securities as distributed through Ameriprise. Fee-based Investment Advisory Accounts We offer all new fee-based investment advisory accounts to clients through a single Custom Advisory Relationship ( Relationship ). We offer several types of investment advisory accounts through the Relationship. The following programs, Ameriprise Strategic Portfolio Service (SPS) Advantage, Ameriprise SPS Advisor, Ameriprise Active Portfolios , Ameriprise Select Separate Account, Ameriprise Investor Unified Account, Ameriprise Vista Separate Account and Ameriprise Access Account are offered through the Relationship. Clients may purchase mutual funds and other securities in connection with the Relationship in one or more fee-based investment advisory accounts. We currently offer discretionary and nondiscretionary investment advisory accounts. In a discretionary advisory account, we (or an unaffiliated investment advisor) choose the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client. In a non-discretionary advisory account, clients choose the underlying investments in the portfolio based on their financial advisor s recommendation. Investors in discretionary and non-discretionary advisory accounts generally pay a fee (for investment advice and other services) based on the assets held in that account as well as any related fees or costs associated with the underlying securities held in that account. A significant portion of our affiliated mutual fund sales are made through advisory accounts. Client assets held in affiliated mutual funds within an advisory account generally produce higher revenues for us than client assets held in affiliated mutual funds on a stand-alone basis. This is because, as noted above, we receive an investment advisory fee ba