ITEM 1. Business 1 Overview 1 Products and Services 2 Strategy 4 Regulatory Matters 6 Competition 8 Human Capital Resources 8 Executive Officers 9 Available Information 9 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 10 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 ITEM 2. Properties 20 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 21 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Dividends 22 Performance Graph 22 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 23 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Executive Overview 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 28 Results of Operations: Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources 37 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 49 Accounting Standards Updates 51 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 53 i Table of Conten ts AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued) FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 Page ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 53 Disclosure Controls and Procedures 53 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 54 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 54 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 55 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 55 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 57 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 57 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 57 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 58 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 59 Index to Exhibits 59 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 68 Signatures 69 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F- 1 ii Table of Conten ts SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) contains statements about future events and expectations, or forward-looking statements, all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future results. When we use words such as anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, expects or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, future prospects of growth in the communications infrastructure leasing industry, the effects of consolidation among companies in our industry and among our customers and other competitive and financial pressures, our ability to maintain or increase our market share, our plans to fund our future liquidity needs, our substantial leverage and debt service obligations, our future financing transactions, our future operating results, the level of future expenditures by companies in this industry and other trends in this industry, changes in zoning, tax and other laws and regulations and administrative and judicial decisions, economic, political and other events, particularly those relating to our international operations, our future capital expenditure levels, our expectations regarding the impacts of the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic and actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and our operating results, the expected impact of the CoreSite Acquisition (as defined in this Annual Report) on our business, including our ability to successfully integrate the CoreSite assets or utilize such assets to their full capacity, the impact of technology changes on our industry and our business, our ability to remain qualified for taxation as a real estate investment trust (REIT), the amount and timing of any future distributions including those we are required to make as a REIT, natural disasters and similar events, technology failures, including cybersecurity and data privacy incidents, and our ability to protect our rights to the land under our towers and buildings in which our data centers are located. These statements are based on our management s beliefs and assumptions, which in turn are based on currently available information. These assumptions could prove inaccurate. These forward-looking statements may be found under the captions Business and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as in this Annual Report generally. You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement we make in this Annual Report or elsewhere speaks only as of the date on which we make it. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect us. In any event, these and other important factors, including those set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption Risk Factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by our forward-looking statements. We have no duty, and do not intend, to update or revise the forward-looking statements we make in this Annual Report, except as may be required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, you should keep in mind that the future events or circumstances described in any forward-looking statement we make in this Annual Report or elsewhere might not occur. References in this Annual Report to we, our and the Company refer to American Tower Corporation and its predecessor, as applicable, individually and collectively with its subsidiaries as the context requires. iii Table of Conten ts PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are one of the largest global real estate investment trusts and a leading independent owner, operator and developer of multitenant communications real estate. Our primary business is the leasing of space on communications sites to wireless service providers, radio and television broadcast companies, wireless data providers, government agencies and municipalities and tenants in a number of other industries. We refer to this business as our property operations, which accounted for 97% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. We also offer tower-related services in the United States, which we refer to as our services operations. These services include site application, zoning and permitting and structural analysis, which primarily support our site leasing business, including the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. Our customers include our tenants, licensees and other payers. Since inception, we have grown our communications real estate portfolio through acquisitions, long-term lease arrangements and site development. Our portfolio primarily consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, as well as distributed antenna system ( DAS ) networks, which provide seamless coverage solutions in certain in-building and outdoor wireless environments. In addition to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements. We also hold other telecommunications infrastructure, fiber and property interests that we lease primarily to communications service providers and third-party tower operators, and, as discussed further below, we hold a portfolio of highly interconnected data center facilities and related assets in the United States that we lease primarily to enterprises, network operators, cloud providers and supporting service providers. In 2021, we added approximately 31,000 communications sites to our portfolios in Latin America and Europe and launched operations in Spain as part of our transaction with Telxius Telecom, S.A. ( Telxius, and the acquisition, the Telxius Acquisition, as further discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview ). In addition, we launched operations in the Philippines through the construction of new sites therein and in Bangladesh through the acquisition of a controlling interest in Kirtonkhola Tower Bangladesh Limited (the Bangladesh Acquisition ). As of December 31, 2021, our communications real estate portfolio of 220,131 communications sites included 43,308 communications sites in the U.S. Canada, 75,725 communications sites in Asia-Pacific, 22,165 communications sites in Africa, 30,041 communications sites in Europe and 48,892 communications sites in Latin America, as well as urban telecommunications assets, including fiber, in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, India, Mexico and South Africa and other property interests in Australia, Canada and the United States. In December 2021, we completed the acquisition of CoreSite Realty Corporation ( CoreSite ), consisting of over 20 data center facilities and related assets in eight United States markets, for total consideration of $10.4 billion, including the assumption and repayment of CoreSite s existing debt (the CoreSite Acquisition ). As of December 31, 2021, our data center portfolio consisted of 27 data center facilities across ten United States markets, including the assets acquired as part of the CoreSite Acquisition, as well as our previously acquired data center facilities. In May 2021 and June 2021, in connection with the funding of the Telxius Acquisition, we entered into agreements with Caisse de d p t et placement du Qu bec ( CDPQ ) and Allianz insurance companies and funds managed by Allianz Capital Partners GmbH, including the Allianz European Infrastructure Fund (collectively, Allianz ), for CDPQ and Allianz to acquire 30% and 18% noncontrolling interests, respectively, in subsidiaries whose holdings consist of our operations in France, Germany, Poland and Spain (such subsidiaries collectively, ATC Europe, and the transactions, the ATC Europe Transactions ). We completed the ATC Europe Transactions in September 2021 for total aggregate consideration of 2.6 billion Euros ( EUR ) (approximately $3.1 billion at the date of closing). After the completion of the ATC Europe Transactions, we hold a 52% controlling ownership interest in ATC Europe. We operate as a real estate investment trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes ( REIT ). Accordingly, we generally are not required to pay U.S. federal income taxes on income generated by our REIT operations, including the income derived from leasing space on our towers and in our data centers, as we receive a dividends paid deduction for distributions to stockholders that generally offsets our REIT income and gains. However, we remain obligated to pay U.S. federal income taxes on earnings from our domestic taxable REIT subsidiaries ( TRSs ). In addition, our international assets and operations, regardless of their classification for U.S. tax purposes, continue to be subject to taxation in the jurisdictions where those assets are held or those operations are conducted. The use of TRSs enables us to continue to engage in certain businesses and jurisdictions while complying with REIT qualification requirements. We may, from time to time, change the election of previously designated TRSs to be included as part of the REIT. As of December 31, 2021, our REIT-qualified businesses included our U.S. tower leasing business, a majority of our U.S. indoor DAS networks business, our Services and Data Centers segments, as well as most of our operations in 1 Table of Conten ts Canada, Costa Rica, France, Germany, Mexico and Nigeria. In January 2022, a majority of our operations in Ghana, Kenya, South Africa and Uganda became part of the REIT. During the fourth quarter of 2021, as a result of the CoreSite Acquisition, we updated our reportable segments to add a Data Centers segment. The Data Centers segment is included within our property operations. We will now report our results in seven segments U.S. Canada property (which includes all assets in the United States and Canada, other than our data center facilities and related assets), Asia-Pacific property, Africa property, Europe property, Latin America property, Data Centers and Services. We believe this change provides greater visibility into our operating segments and aligns our reporting with management s current approach of allocating costs and resources, managing growth and profitability and assessing the operating performance of our business segments. This change applies to our business operations results beginning with the fourth quarter of 2021 and had no impact on our consolidated financial statements for any prior periods. Historical financial information included in this Annual Report has not been adjusted as the amounts attributable to data center assets were insignificant as prior to the fourth quarter of 2021, we owned one data center. Products and Services Property Operations Our property operations accounted for 97%, 99% and 98% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our revenue is primarily generated from tenant leases. Our tenants lease space on our communications real estate, where they install and maintain their equipment. Rental payments vary considerably depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, amount, type and position of tenant equipment on the tower, remaining tower capacity and tower location. Our costs typically include ground rent (which is primarily fixed under long-term lease agreements with annual cost escalations) and power and fuel costs, some or all of which may be passed through to our tenants, as well as property taxes and repair and maintenance expenses. Our property operations have generated consistent growth in revenue and typically have low cash flow volatility due to the following characteristics: Long-term tenant leases with contractual rent escalations. In general, our tenant leases for our communications sites with wireless carriers have initial non-cancellable terms of five to ten years with multiple renewal terms, with provisions that periodically increase the rent due under the lease, typically annually, based on a fixed escalation percentage (averaging approximately 3% in the United States) or an inflationary index in most of our international markets, or a combination of both. Based upon foreign currency exchange rates and the tenant leases in place as of December 31, 2021, we expect to generate over $61 billion of non-cancellable tenant lease revenue over future periods, before the impact of straight-line lease accounting. Consistent demand for our sites. As a result of rapidly growing usage of mobile data and other wireless services and the corresponding wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites. We believe that our global asset base positions us well to benefit from the increasing proliferation of advanced wireless devices and the increasing usage of high bandwidth applications on those devices. We have the ability to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites, which typically results in incremental revenue and modest incremental costs. Our site portfolio and our established tenant base provide us with a solid platform for new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth. High lease renewal rates. Our tenants tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a site in their network may be expensive and may adversely affect network quality. Historically, churn has averaged approximately 1% to 2% of tenant billings per year. We define churn as tenant billings lost when a tenant cancels or does not renew its lease or, in limited circumstances, when the lease rates on existing leases are reduced. We derive our churn rate for a given year by dividing our tenant billings lost on this basis by our prior-year tenant billings. As discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview, we experienced elevated levels of churn in recent years due to carrier consolidation-driven churn in India. We anticipate that our churn rate in our Asia-Pacific property segment will moderate over time, however, in the immediate term, we believe that our churn rate may remain elevated as, among other things, our tenants in India evaluate how best to comply with the recent court rulings by the Supreme Court of India and determine their obligations under payment plans for the adjusted gross revenue ( AGR ) fees and charges prescribed by such court, as further discussed in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption Risk Factors Our business, and that of our customers, is subject to laws, regulations and administrative and judicial decisions, and changes thereto, that could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do or impact our competitive landscape. Additionally, we expect that our churn rate in our U.S. Canada property segment will be elevated for a period of several years due to contractual lease cancellations 2 Table of Conten ts and non-renewals pursuant to the terms of our master lease agreement with T-Mobile US, Inc. ( T-Mobile, and the agreement, the T-Mobile MLA ) entered into in September 2020. High operating margins. Incremental operating costs associated with adding new tenants or equipment to an existing communications site are relatively minimal. Therefore, as tenants or equipment are added, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to gross margin and operating profit. In addition, in many of our international markets, certain expenses, such as ground rent or power and fuel costs, are reimbursed or shared by our tenant base. Low maintenance capital expenditures. On average, we require relatively low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our communications sites. Our property business includes the operation of communications sites and managed networks, the leasing of property interests and, in select markets, the operation of fiber, the operation of data centers and the provision of backup power through shared generators. Our presence in a number of markets at different relative stages of wireless development provides us with significant diversification and long-term growth potential. Our property segments accounted for the following percentage of consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31,: 2021 2020 2019 U.S. Canada 52 % 56 % 55 % Asia-Pacific 13 % 14 % 16 % Africa 11 % 11 % 8 % Europe 5 % 2 % 2 % Latin America 16 % 16 % 18 % Data Centers 0 % % % Communications Sites. Approximately 95% of revenue in our property segments was attributable to our communications sites, excluding DAS networks, for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. We lease space on our communications sites to tenants providing a diverse range of communications services, including cellular voice and data, broadcasting, mobile video and a number of other applications. In addition, in many of our international markets, we receive pass-through revenue from our tenants to cover certain costs, including power and fuel costs and ground rent. Our top tenants by revenue for each property segment are as follows for the year ended December 31, 2021: U.S. Canada: AT T Inc. ( AT T ); T-Mobile; and Verizon Wireless accounted for an aggregate of 88% of U.S. Canada property segment revenue. Asia-Pacific: Vodafone Idea Limited; Bharti Airtel Limited ( Airtel ); and Reliance Jio accounted for an aggregate of 89% of Asia-Pacific property segment revenue. Africa: Airtel; and MTN Group Limited ( MTN ) accounted for an aggregate of 73% of Africa property segment revenue. Europe: Telef nica S.A. ( Telef nica ); and Bouygues accounted for an aggregate of 74% of Europe property segment revenue. Latin America: AT T; Telef nica; and Am rica M vil accounted for an aggregate of 60% of Latin America property segment revenue. Accordingly, we are subject to certain risks, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption Risk Factors A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers, and we are sensitive to adverse changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our customers. In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption Risk Factors Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Managed Networks, Fiber and Related Assets, Data Centers and Related Assets, Property Interests and Shared Generators. In addition to our communications sites, we also own and operate several types of managed network solutions, provide communications site management services to third parties, manage and lease property interests under carrier or other third-party communications sites, provide the right to use fiber, operate data center facilities and provide back-up power sources to tenants at our sites. The balance of our property segment revenue not attributable to our communications sites was attributable to these items. Managed Networks. We own and operate DAS networks in the United States and certain international markets. We obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer a small portfolio of outdoor DAS networks as a complementary shared infrastructure solution for our tenants in the United States and in certain 3 Table of Conten ts international markets. Typically, we have designed, built and operated our outdoor DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or delay deployment of more traditional wireless communications sites, such as macro tower sites. We also hold lease rights and easement interests on rooftops capable of hosting communications equipment in locations where towers are generally not a viable solution based on area characteristics. In addition, we provide management services to property owners in the United States who elect to retain full rights to their property while simultaneously marketing the rooftop for wireless communications equipment installation. As the demand for advanced wireless services in urban markets evolves, we continue to evaluate a variety of infrastructure solutions, including small cells and other network architectures that may support our tenants networks in these areas. Fiber and Related Assets. We own and operate fiber and related assets in certain international markets. We currently provide the right to use such fiber and related assets to communications and internet service providers and third-party operators to support their telecommunications infrastructure. We expect to continue to evaluate opportunities to invest selectively in and expand these and other similar assets in the future as part of advanced network deployments. Data Centers and Related Assets. As a result of our recent data center acquisitions, we own and operate data center facilities and related assets in the United States, which consist of specialized and secure buildings that house networking, storage and communications technology infrastructure, including servers, storage devices, switches, routers and fiber optic transmission equipment. These buildings are designed to provide the power, cooling and network connectivity necessary to efficiently operate this equipment. Data centers located at points where many communications networks converge can also function as interconnection hubs where customers are able to connect to multiple networks, cloud companies and other service providers to exchange traffic and interoperate with each other. Property Interests . We own portfolios of property interests in Australia, Canada and the United States, including land under carrier or other third-party communications sites, which provide recurring cash flow under complementary leasing arrangements. Shared Generators . We have contracts with certain of our tenants in the United States pursuant to which we provide access to shared backup power generators. Services Operations We offer tower-related services in the United States, including site application, zoning and permitting and structural analysis services. Our services operations primarily support our site leasing business, including through the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for 3%, 1% and 2% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Site Application, Zoning and Permitting . We engage in site application services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our tenants engineers to determine the geographic areas where new communications sites will best address the tenants needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site. Structural Analysis. We offer structural analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of their communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower structure can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to better assess potential sites before making an installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things, reducing the time required to achieve on-air readiness, while also providing opportunities to offer structural analysis services to third parties. Strategy Operational Strategy As the use of wireless services on handsets, tablets and other advanced mobile devices grows and evolves, there is a corresponding increase in demand for the communications infrastructure required to deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To capture this demand, our primary operational focus is to (i) increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio to support global connectivity, (ii) invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio, (iii) further improve our operational performance and efficiency, including through platform expansion initiatives, and (iv) maintain a strong balance sheet. We believe these efforts to meet our customers needs will support and enhance our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand for wireless infrastructure. In addition, we expect to explore new opportunities to enhance or extend our shared communications infrastructure businesses, including those that may make our assets incrementally more attractive to new customers, or to existing customers for new uses, and those that increase our operational efficiency. 4 Table of Conten ts Increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio to support global connectivity. We believe that our highest incremental returns will be achieved by leasing additional space on our existing communications sites. Increasing demand for wireless services in our served markets has resulted in significant capital spending by major wireless carriers and other connectivity providers. As a result, we anticipate growing demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located and typically have capacity available for additional tenants and equipment. In the United States, incremental carrier network activity is being driven by 4G network densification initiatives as well as the early stages of multiple concurrent 5G network deployments. In our international markets, carriers are increasingly deploying more advanced network technologies such as 4G and, in the case of our international markets with more mature network technology, 5G, while continuing to selectively augment legacy networks. We believe that the majority of our towers have capacity for additional tenants and that substantially all of our towers that are currently at or near full structural capacity can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the utilization and return on investment of our existing communications sites. Invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio to meet our customers needs. We seek opportunities to invest in and grow our operations through our capital expenditure program and acquisitions. A significant portion of our inorganic growth has been focused on properties with lower initial tenancy because we believe that over time we can significantly increase tenancy levels, and therefore, drive strong returns on those assets. More recently, we have invested in strategic data center assets, including through the CoreSite Acquisition, which we believe can drive strong, recurring growth and also meaningfully enhance the value of our existing communications tower real estate through emerging edge compute opportunities in the future. Further improve our operational performance and efficiency. We continue to seek opportunities to imp