ITEM 1. Business 1 Overview 1 Products and Services 2 Strategy 4 Regulatory Matters 6 Competition 7 Employees 7 Executive Officers 8 Available Information 8 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 8 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 ITEM 2. Properties 16 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 17 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Dividends 18 Performance Graph 18 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 20 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Executive Overview 22 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 26 Results of Operations: Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 28 Liquidity and Capital Resources 38 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 48 Accounting Standards Updates 51 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 53 i Table of Contents AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued) FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 Page ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 53 Disclosure Controls and Procedures 53 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 53 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 54 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 55 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 56 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 57 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 58 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 58 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 59 Index to Exhibits 59 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 66 Signatures 67 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) contains statements about future events and expectations, or forward-looking statements, all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future results. When we use words such as anticipates, intends, plans, believes, estimates, expects or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding future prospects of growth in the communications site leasing industry, the effects of consolidation among companies in our industry and among our tenants and other competitive and financial pressures, the level of future expenditures by companies in this industry and other trends in this industry, changes in zoning, tax and other laws and regulations and administrative and judicial decisions, economic, political and other events, particularly those relating to our international operations, our future capital expenditure levels, the impact of technology changes on our industry and our business, our ability to maintain or increase our market share, our plans to fund our future liquidity needs, our substantial leverage and debt service obligations, our future financing transactions, our future operating results, our ability to remain qualified for taxation as a real estate investment trust (REIT), the amount and timing of any future distributions including those we are required to make as a REIT, natural disasters and similar events and our ability to protect our rights to the land under our towers. These statements are based on our management s beliefs and assumptions, which in turn are based on currently available information. These assumptions could prove inaccurate. These forward-looking statements may be found under the captions Business and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as in this Annual Report generally. ii Table of Contents You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement we make in this Annual Report or elsewhere speaks only as of the date on which we make it. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect us. In any event, these and other important factors, including those set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption Risk Factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by our forward-looking statements. We have no duty, and do not intend, to update or revise the forward-looking statements we make in this Annual Report, except as may be required by law. In light of these risks and uncertainties, you should keep in mind that the future events or circumstances described in any forward-looking statement we make in this Annual Report or elsewhere might not occur. References in this Annual Report to we, our and the Company refer to American Tower Corporation and its predecessor, as applicable, individually and collectively with its subsidiaries as the context requires. iii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are one of the largest global real estate investment trusts and a leading independent owner, operator and developer of multitenant communications real estate. Our primary business is the leasing of space on communications sites to wireless service providers, radio and television broadcast companies, wireless data providers, government agencies and municipalities and tenants in a number of other industries. We refer to this business as our property operations, which accounted for 98% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 . We also offer tower-related services in the United States, which we refer to as our services operations. These services include site acquisition, zoning and permitting and structural analysis, which primarily support our site leasing business, including the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. American Tower Corporation was originally created as a subsidiary of American Radio Systems Corporation in 1995 and was spun off into a free-standing public company in 1998. We are a holding company and conduct our operations through our directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. Our principal domestic operating subsidiaries are American Towers LLC and SpectraSite Communications, LLC. We conduct our international operations primarily through our subsidiary, American Tower International, Inc., which in turn conducts operations through its various international holding and operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. Since inception, we have grown our communications real estate portfolio through acquisitions, long-term lease arrangements and site development. Our portfolio primarily consists of towers that we own and towers that we operate pursuant to long-term lease arrangements, as well as distributed antenna system ( DAS ) networks, which provide seamless coverage solutions in certain in-building and outdoor wireless environments. In addition to the communications sites in our portfolio, we manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements. We also hold other telecommunications infrastructure, fiber and property interests that we lease primarily to communications service providers and third-party tower operators. In 2019, we added approximately 5,800 communications sites to our portfolio in Africa and launched operations in Burkina Faso and Niger as part of our acquisition of Eaton Towers Holdings Limited ( Eaton Towers, and the acquisition, the Eaton Towers Acquisition ). We also signed a definitive agreement to acquire approximately 3,200 communications sites in Chile and Peru from Entel PCS Telecomunicaciones S.A. and Entel Peru S.A. and closed on the first tranche of sites, adding approximately 2,400 communications sites to our portfolio in Latin America (the Entel Acquisition ). The remaining communications sites are expected to close in tranches beginning in the first quarter of 2020, subject to certain closing conditions. As of December 31, 2019 , our communications real estate portfolio of 179,520 communications sites included 40,974 communications sites in the U.S., 74,712 communications sites in Asia, 18,370 communications sites in Africa, 4,736 communications sites in Europe and 40,728 communications sites in Latin America, as well as urban telecommunications assets in Argentina, Brazil, India, Mexico and South Africa. We operate as a real estate investment trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes ( REIT ). Accordingly, we generally are not required to pay U.S. federal income taxes on income generated by our REIT operations, including the income derived from leasing space on our towers, as we receive a dividends paid deduction for distributions to stockholders that generally offsets our REIT income and gains. However, we remain obligated to pay U.S. federal income taxes on earnings from our domestic taxable REIT subsidiaries ( TRSs ). In addition, our international assets and operations, regardless of their classification for U.S. tax purposes, continue to be subject to taxation in the jurisdictions where those assets are held or those operations are conducted. The use of TRSs enables us to continue to engage in certain businesses while complying with REIT qualification requirements. We may, from time to time, change the election of previously designated TRSs to be included as part of the REIT. As of December 31, 2019 , our REIT-qualified businesses included our U.S. tower leasing business and a majority of our U.S. indoor DAS networks business and services segment, as well as most of our operations in Mexico, Germany, Costa Rica, Nigeria and France. During the fourth quarter of 2019, as a result of recent acquisitions, including the Eaton Towers Acquisition, and changes to our organizational structure, we reviewed and changed our reportable segments to divide our Europe, Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) property segment into two separate segments, Africa property and Europe property. We now report our results in six segments U.S. property, Asia property, Africa property, Europe property, Latin America property and services. We believe this change provides more visibility into these operating segments and better aligns our reporting with management s current approach of allocating costs and resources, managing growth and profitability and assessing the operating performance of our business segments. 1 Table of Contents Products and Services Property Operations Our property operations accounted for 98% , 98% and 99% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Our revenue is primarily generated from tenant leases. Our tenants lease space on our communications real estate, where they install and maintain their equipment. Rental payments vary considerably depending upon numerous factors, including, but not limited to, amount, type and position of tenant equipment on the tower, remaining tower capacity and tower location. Our costs typically include ground rent (which is primarily fixed under long-term lease agreements with annual cost escalations) and power and fuel costs, some or all of which may be passed through to our tenants, as well as property taxes and repair and maintenance expenses. Our property operations have generated consistent growth in revenue and typically have low cash flow volatility due to the following characteristics: Long-term tenant leases with contractual rent escalations. In general, our tenant leases with wireless carriers have initial non-cancellable terms of five to ten years with multiple renewal terms, with provisions that periodically increase the rent due under the lease, typically annually, based on a fixed escalation percentage (averaging approximately 3% in the United States) or an inflationary index in our international markets, or a combination of both. Based upon foreign currency exchange rates and the tenant leases in place as of December 31, 2019 , we expect to generate nearly $46.9 billion of non-cancellable tenant lease revenue over future periods, before the impact of straight-line lease accounting. Consistent demand for our sites. As a result of rapidly growing usage of mobile data and other wireless services and the corresponding wireless industry capital spending trends in the markets we serve, we anticipate consistent demand for our communications sites. We believe that our global asset base positions us well to benefit from the increasing proliferation of advanced wireless devices and the increasing usage of high bandwidth applications on those devices. We have the ability to add new tenants and new equipment for existing tenants on our sites, which typically results in incremental revenue and modest incremental costs. Our site portfolio and our established tenant base provide us with a solid platform for new business opportunities, which has historically resulted in consistent and predictable organic revenue growth. High lease renewal rates. Our tenants tend to renew leases because suitable alternative sites may not exist or be available and repositioning a site in their network may be expensive and may adversely affect network quality. Historically, churn has averaged approximately 1% to 2% of tenant billings per year. We define churn as tenant billings lost when a tenant cancels or does not renew its lease or, in limited circumstances, when the lease rates on existing leases are reduced. We derive our churn rate for a given year by dividing our tenant billings lost on this basis by our prior-year tenant billings. As discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report under the caption Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview, we experienced elevated levels of churn in recent years due to carrier consolidation-driven churn in India. We anticipate that our churn rate will move closer to historical levels over time, however, in the immediate term, we expect that our churn rate will remain elevated, primarily due to the uncertainty created by the recent court ruling by the Indian Supreme Court, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the captions Risk Factors A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of tenants, and we are sensitive to adverse changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants and Risk Factors Our business, and that of our tenants, is subject to laws, regulations and administrative and judicial decisions, and changes thereto, that could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do or impact our competitive landscape. High operating margins. Incremental operating costs associated with adding new tenants or equipment to an existing communications site are relatively minimal. Therefore, as tenants or equipment are added, the substantial majority of incremental revenue flows through to gross margin and operating profit. In addition, in many of our international markets certain expenses, such as ground rent or power and fuel costs, are reimbursed or shared by our tenant base. Low maintenance capital expenditures. On average, we require relatively low amounts of annual capital expenditures to maintain our communications sites. Our property business includes the operation of communications sites and managed networks, the leasing of property interests, and, in select markets, the operation of fiber and the provision of backup power through shared generators. Our presence in a number of markets at different relative stages of wireless development provides us with significant diversification and long-term growth potential. Our property segments accounted for the following percentage of consolidated total revenue 2 Table of Contents for the years ended December 31,: 2019 2018 2017 U.S. 55 % 51 % 55 % Asia 16 % 21 % 17 % Africa 8 % 7 % 7 % Europe 2 % 2 % 2 % Latin America 18 % 17 % 18 % Communications Sites. Approximately 95%, 96% and 97% of revenue in our property segments was attributable to our communications sites, excluding DAS networks, for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. We lease space on our communications sites to tenants providing a diverse range of communications services, including cellular voice and data, broadcasting, mobile video and a number of other applications. In addition, in many of our international markets, we receive pass-through revenue from our tenants to cover certain costs, including power and fuel costs and ground rent. Our top tenants by revenue for each region are as follows for the year ended December 31, 2019 : U.S.: AT T Inc. ( AT T ); Verizon Wireless; T-Mobile US, Inc. ( T-Mobile ); and Sprint Corporation ( Sprint ) accounted for an aggregate of 89% of U.S. property segment revenue. T-Mobile and Sprint have announced plans to merge in 2020. Asia: Vodafone Idea Limited; Bharti Airtel Limited ( Airtel ); and Reliance Jio accounted for an aggregate of 83% of Asia property segment revenue. Africa: MTN Group Limited ( MTN ); and Airtel accounted for an aggregate of 74% of Africa property segment revenue. Europe: Telef nica S.A ( Telef nica ); Bouygues; and Free accounted for an aggregate of 70% of Europe property segment revenue. Latin America: Telef nica; AT T; and Am rica M vil accounted for an aggregate of 58% of Latin America property segment revenue. Accordingly, we are subject to certain risks, as set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption Risk Factors A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of tenants, and we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants. In addition, we are subject to risks related to our international operations, as set forth under the caption Risk Factors Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Managed Networks, Property Interests, Fiber and Shared Generators. In addition to our communications sites, we also own and operate several types of managed network solutions, provide communications site management services to third parties, manage and lease property interests under carrier or other third-party communications sites, provide the right to use fiber and provide back-up power sources to tenants at our sites. The balance of our property segment revenue not attributable to our communications sites was attributable to these items. Managed Networks. We own and operate DAS networks in the United States and certain international markets. We obtain rights from property owners to install and operate in-building DAS networks, and we grant rights to wireless service providers to attach their equipment to our installations. We also offer a small portfolio of outdoor DAS networks as a complementary shared infrastructure solution for our tenants in the United States and in certain international markets. Typically, we have designed, built and operated our outdoor DAS networks in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or delay deployment of more traditional wireless communications sites, such as macro tower sites. We also hold lease rights and easement interests on rooftops capable of hosting communications equipment in locations where towers are generally not a viable solution based on area characteristics. In addition, we provide management services to property owners in the United States who elect to retain full rights to their property while simultaneously marketing the rooftop for wireless communications equipment installation. As the demand for advanced wireless services in urban markets evolves, we continue to evaluate a variety of infrastructure solutions, including small cells and other network architectures that may support our tenants networks in these areas. Fiber and Related Assets. We own and operate fiber and related assets in Argentina, Brazil, India, Mexico, South Africa and the United States, which we currently provide the right to use to communications and internet service providers and third-party operators to support their telecommunications infrastructure. We expect to continue to 3 Table of Contents evaluate opportunities to invest in and provide the right to use these and other similar assets to providers and operators in the future for additional fourth generation (4G) and fifth generation (5G) deployments. Property Interests . We own a portfolio of property interests in the United States under carrier or other third-party communications sites, which provides recurring cash flow under complementary leasing arrangements. Shared Generators . We have contracts with certain of our tenants in the United States pursuant to which we provide access to shared backup power generators. Services Operations We offer tower-related services in the United States, including site acquisition, zoning and permitting and structural analysis services. Our services operations primarily support our site leasing business, including through the addition of new tenants and equipment on our sites. This segment accounted for 2% , 2% and 1% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Site Acquisition, Zoning and Permitting . We engage in site acquisition services on our own behalf in connection with our tower development projects, as well as on behalf of our tenants. We typically work with our tenants engineers to determine the geographic areas where new communications sites will best address the tenants needs and meet their coverage objectives. Once a new site is identified, we acquire the rights to the land or structure on which the site will be constructed, and we manage the permitting process to ensure all necessary approvals are obtained to construct and operate the communications site. Structural Analysis. We offer structural analysis services to wireless carriers in connection with the installation of their communications equipment on our towers. Our team of engineers can evaluate whether a tower structure can support the additional burden of the new equipment or if an upgrade is needed, which enables our tenants to better assess potential sites before making an installation decision. Our structural analysis capabilities enable us to provide higher quality service to our existing tenants by, among other things, reducing the time required to achieve on-air readiness, while also providing opportunities to offer structural analysis services to third parties. Strategy Operational Strategy As the use of wireless services on handsets, tablets and other advanced mobile devices grows and evolves, there is a corresponding increase in demand for the communications infrastructure required to deploy current and future generations of wireless communications technologies. To capture this demand, our primary operational focus is to (i) increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio to support global connectivity, (ii) invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio, (iii) further improve our operational performance and efficiency, including through innovation initiatives and (iv) maintain a strong balance sheet. We believe these efforts to meet our tenants needs will support and enhance our ability to capitalize on the growth in demand for wireless infrastructure. In addition, we expect to explore new opportunities to enhance or extend our shared communications infrastructure businesses, including those that may make our assets incrementally more attractive to new tenants, or to existing tenants for new uses, and those that increase our operational efficiency. Increase the occupancy of our existing communications real estate portfolio to support global connectivity. We believe that our highest incremental returns will be achieved by leasing additional space on our existing communications sites. Increasing demand for wireless services in our served markets has resulted in significant capital spending by major wireless carriers and other connectivity providers. As a result, we anticipate growing demand for our communications sites because they are attractively located and typically have capacity available for additional tenants and equipment. In the United States, incremental carrier network activity is being driven primarily by the construction and densification of 4G networks, as well as initial deployments of 5G. In our international markets, carriers are deploying a combination of second generation (2G), third generation (3G) and, more recently, 4G networks, depending on the specific market. We believe that the majority of our towers have capacity for additional tenants and that substantially all of our towers that are currently at or near full structural capacity can be upgraded or augmented to meet future tenant demand with relatively modest capital investment. Therefore, we will continue to target our sales and marketing activities to increase the utilization and return on investment of our existing communications sites. Invest in and selectively grow our communications real estate portfolio to meet our tenants needs. We seek opportunities to invest in and grow our operations through our capital expenditure program, new site construction and acquisitions. We believe we can achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns by pursuing such investments. In addition, we seek to secure property interests under our communications sites to improve operating margins as we reduce our cash operating expense related to ground leases. A significant portion of our inorganic growth has been focused on 4 Table of Contents properties with lower initial tenancy because we believe that over time we can significantly increase tenancy levels, and therefore, drive strong returns on those assets. Further improve our operational performance and efficiency, including through innovation initiatives. We continue to seek opportunities to improve our operational performance throughout the organization. This includes investing in our systems and people as we strive to improve efficiency and provide superior service to our tenants. To achieve this, we intend to continue to focus on customer service initiatives, such as reducing cycle times for key functions, including lease processing and tower structural analysis. Through our innovation program, we are also focused on developing and implementing renewable power solutions across our footprint to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and help improve the overall efficiency of the communications infrastructure and wireless industries. We also expect to use our innovation program to explore additional ways to enhance the efficiency of our operations over time. Maintain a strong balance sheet. We remain committed to disciplined financial policies, which we believe result in our ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and will support our overall strategy and focus on asset growth and operational excellence. As a result of these policies, we currently have investment grade credit ratings. We continue to focus on maintaining a robust liquidity position and, as of December 31, 2019 , had $4.4 billion of available liquidity. We believe that our investment grade credit ratings provide us consistent access to the capital markets and our liquidity provides us the ability to continue to invest in growing and augmenting our business. Capital Allocation Strategy The objective of our capital allocation strategy is to simultaneously increase adjusted funds from operations and our return on invested capital over the long term. To maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT, we are required annually to distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for distributed earnings and excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders. After complying with our REIT distribution requirements, we plan to continue to allocate our available capital among investment alternatives that meet or exceed our return on investment criteria, while taking into account the repayment of debt consistent with our financial policies. Capital expenditure program. We expect to continue to invest in and expand our existing communications real estate portfolio through our capital expenditure program. This includes capital expenditures associated with site maintenance, increasing the capacity of our existing sites and projects such as new site construction, land interest acquisitions and power solutions. Acquisitions. We intend to pursue acquisitions of communications sites and other telecommunications infrastructure in our existing or new markets where we can meet or exceed our risk-adjusted return on investment criteria. The risk-adjusted hurdle rates used to evaluate acquisition opportunities consider additional factors such as the country and counterparties involved, investment and economic climate, legal and regulatory conditions and industry risk, among others. Return excess capital to stockholders . If we have excess capital available after funding (i) our required distributions, (ii) capital expenditures, (iii) the repayment of debt consistent with our financial policies and (iv) anticipated future investments, including acquisition and select innovation opportunities, we will seek to return such excess capital to stockholders, including through our stock repurchase programs. International Growth Strategy We believe that, in certain international markets, we can create substantial va