Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 49 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 49 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 50 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 50 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 51 Item 6. [Reserved] 53 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 54 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 68 Item 9. Change in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B. Other Information 104 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 104 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 105 Item 11. Executive Compensation 105 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 105 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 109 Signatures 110 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The words believe, may, will, potentially, "likely" estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, "should", project, plan, predict, expect , the negative of any of these words and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth and our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin and operating expenses; our belief that the networking market is rapidly evolving and has a significant potential opportunity for growth; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; our ability to expand our leadership position in the networking industry and to develop new products and expand our business into new markets such as the AI Ethernet switching, campus workspace, enterprise data center and security markets; our ability to satisfy the requirements for networking solutions and to successfully anticipate technological shifts and market needs, including the impact of artificial intelligence, innovate new products, rapidly develop new features and applications, and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to fulfill our customers orders despite supply chain delays, access to key commodities or technologies or geopolitical events that impact our manufacturers or their suppliers such as the recent U.S. trade wars, the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts, the Houthi attacks on marine vessels in the Red Sea or the impact of global pandemics such as the global coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic; our ability to identify, complete and realize the benefits of recent and future acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary companies, products, services or technologies; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and the potential outcomes of such disputes, such as any claims discussed in Legal Proceedings ; our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers, including large customers; our ability to expand our business domestically and internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of customers, including large customers who may receive lower pricing terms due to volume discounts or who may elect to re-assign allocations to multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects; the growth and buying patterns of our large customers and resulting volatility in our customer concentration in which large bulk purchases may or may not occur in certain quarters or may be deferred into future quarters or cancelled due to adjustments in their capital expenditure forecasts; the deferral or cancellation of orders by customers, warranty returns or delays in acceptance of our products; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base and sell more complex and higher-performance configurations of our products; our belief that increasing channel leverage will extend and improve our engagement with a broad set of customers; our plans to continue to expand our sales force, marketing activities and relationships with channel, technology and system-level partners; our ability to scale our operational and manufacturing capacity; our plans to invest in our research and development; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; the benefits realized by our customers in their use of our products and services including lower total cost of ownership; our ability to detect breaches of our cybersecurity systems or other security breaches; the effects of seasonal and cyclical trends on our results of operations; our relationships with and expectations concerning third parties, including, but not limited to our large customers, suppliers, distributors, systems integrators, channel partners and value-added resellers; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; economic and industry trends; estimates and estimate methodologies used in preparing our financial statements; future trading prices of our common stock; our belief that we have adequately reserved for uncertain tax positions; the impact of global economic and political conditions that introduce instability i nto the U.S. and other economies; the impact of climate change and natural disasters; the impact of global and domestic tax reform; the impact of tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods; and our belief that our existing cash and cash equivalents together with cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements and our growth strategies for the foreseeable future. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Arista Networks is an industry leader in data-driven, client to cloud networking for large data center, campus and routing environments. Arista s platforms deliver availability, agility, automation, analytics and security through an advanced network operating stack. Since Arista s inception, our founders have reimagined cloud networks for performance, scale and programmability with a focus on differentiating in three ways: uncompromising quality, advanced open and standards-based technology and a robust quality assurance capability built on a suite of automated diagnostics. At the core of Arista s platform is Arista s Extensible Operating System (EOS ), a modernized publish-subscribe state-sharing networking operating system. Arista EOS, combined with a set of network applications and our Ethernet switching and routing platforms using best of breed merchant silicon, provides customers with a highly competitive and diversified portfolio of products with improved price/performance and time to market. Our current portfolio of offerings are categorized in the following three product categories: Core: high-speed Data Center and Cloud Networking systems including newer artificial intelligence ("AI") Ethernet switching platforms. Cognitive Adjacencies: campus wired and wireless products and advanced routing systems addressing Core Routing, Edge Routing, Data Center Interconnect (DCI), Multi-cloud and Wide Area Networking (WAN) use cases. Network Software and Services: a suite of value-add software solutions that leverage Arista s EOS to provide advanced end-to-end orchestration, automation, analytics, network monitoring and security. Since we began shipping our products in 2008, we have experienced rapid growth, and, according to market research in 2023, we have achieved the leadership position in high-speed Ethernet port shipments of 100G and above and the second largest market share in overall data center Ethernet switch ports and revenue. We have been profitable and cash flow positive since 2010. Our Market Opportunity We sell our products through both a direct sales force and channel partners, competing primarily in the high-speed data center Ethernet switching markets for 10 Gigabit Ethernet ("GbE") and above, including the AI Ethernet switching market, the cloud-grade and enterprise routing markets, and the campus wired and wireless markets. In recent years, we have also entered into the Network Monitoring and Network Detection and Response (NDR) security markets through both acquisition and organic development. Our Customers Our customers span a range of industries and geographies, including large cloud customers or hyperscalers, other internet providers, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies and a cross section of enterprise customers. Over the past five years, we have diversified the types of enterprise customers we sell to and have continued to expand our presence across a wide spectrum of industries including media and entertainment, healthcare, oil and gas, education, manufacturing, industrial, and more. Meta Platforms and Microsoft, two of our cloud end customers, each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022. Market Drivers Digital Transformation Digital transformation is fundamentally changing the way technology is integrated into business operations and as a result how IT infrastructure is built, and applications are delivered across cloud and end-customer environments. The expanded dependency of business operations on the network has increased the complexity of the network and heightened the importance of network availability, predictable performance, open programmability and operational simplicity. The public cloud leaders pioneered the development of large-scale cloud data centers to meet these growing demands from their users, including business customers. Enterprises now have the option to move applications to the cloud as cloud services are generally easier and more cost effective to deploy, scale and operate than traditional applications. These cloud metrics have become the baseline for performance, cost and efficiency of IT infrastructure investments. Enterprises and service 1 Table of Contents providers around the world are also now adopting cloud computing technologies and principles to their own non-cloud or hybrid operations in order to achieve similar performance, operational efficiencies and cost reductions. Arista addresses our customers' requirements through our approach to network architecture, our platforms and our software. Our comprehensive R-series and X-series switching and routing portfolios running the highly programmable EOS, transform networks with simplified and scalable architectures across multiple use-cases. Artificial Intelligence (AI) The expansion of generative AI computing and distributed applications is further pushing the boundary of predictable scale and performance in the network. A common characteristic of these AI workloads is that they are both data and compute intensive. A typical AI workload involves large sparse matrix computations, distributed across hundreds or thousands of processors (CPU, GPU, TPU, etc.) with intense computations for a period of time and requires a high-bandwidth, scalable, lossless network in order to service these workloads. Arista's AI strategy is based on achieving two key objectives. Arista first offers to customers the Arista Autonomous Virtual Assist ((AVA TM )) using natural processing language to provide AI assisted outcomes for security and observability. Arista also provides network switching products intended to provide a robust interconnect that seamlessly links GPUs, compute and storage to deliver fast job completion time for training and generative AI workloads. An overview of our AI enabled solutions is shown below: As a proud founding member, Arista is committed to leading the Ultra Ethernet Consortium (UEC) to achieve scalable and efficient remote memory access, implemented with enhanced packet spraying, flexible ordering, and modern congestion control algorithms. Hybrid Work In the post-pandemic world, the traditional campus has been redefined and the boundaries between the office, home, teleworker and user have converged. At the same time, the proliferation and sophistication of devices that connect the campus, such as smart devices, security cameras and Internet of Things ("IoT"), has grown dramatically. The challenge lies in successfully transitioning the existing siloed campus into a data-driven, distributed campus model with a common experience, while addressing the growing security and availability needs. Arista s campus portfolio was driven by customers desiring the same quality and operational efficiency available from EOS and CloudVision throughout their entire enterprise network. We entered the campus market with a diverse portfolio of modular and fixed form factor Campus spine switches, Power-over-Ethernet (PoE) switches, and WiFi access points based on 2 Table of Contents EOS and managed through CloudVision. We continue to expand our campus portfolio to offer the advantages of EOS across the entire enterprise network. Most recently, we have added incremental Enterprise WAN products as well as embedded NDR security sensors into our campus switches to address more of the security challenges that face campus administrators. Zero Trust Networking Security Today, a zero trust networking approach to security is paramount for organizations looking to build a robust cybersecurity program. Irrespective of which device, application, or user is accessing an enterprise resource, zero trust focuses on complete visibility and control over all activity on the network. Arista s zero trust networking principles, based on NIST 800-207, help customers address this challenge with three cornerstones: visibility, continuous diagnostics, and enforcement. The Arista NDR platform delivers continuous diagnostics for the entire enterprise threat landscape, processes countless points of data, senses abnormalities or threats, and reacts if/when warranted. Limitations of Traditional Enterprise Data Center and Campus Networks The introduction of large scale, highly complex, public cloud environments and the digital transformation of end customer business models meant that the traditional ways of building networks were no longer adequate to meet the needs of customers for the deployment and provision of cloud applications and more recently generative AI applications, and new innovations were needed to push network performance forward. Historically, most common network designs were rigidly hierarchical, based on a 3-tiered model developed in the early days of the internet for sparse north/south traffic patterns. This model was limited in the number of devices that could be connected to a network and introduced many points of congestion as customers tried to scale the solution. As more applications move to the cloud, network connections must scale, and the increased east/west traffic must be managed without congestion. In addition, the switches and routers used to build these tiered networks were based on proprietary, application-specific integrated circuits ("ASICs") that historically underperformed when measured against Moore s Law and operating systems that lacked the openness and programmability necessary to automate and effectively manage these networks. As demand for scale and performance increased, the end-user experience was degraded, operational costs increased, and the host cost-per-connection increased. Similarly, traditional enterprise networks have been mired in complexity, proprietary features and architectures, custom ASICs, siloed designs, and fragile software offerings built up over the previous three decades. Because of this, operating a legacy network is riddled with challenges; critical outages that cause risk-averse behaviors, labor-intensive rollouts that impede business initiatives, limited visibility that prevent problem detection and isolation, and overall lack of automation and uniformity that results in inefficiency. In addition, there had historically been little or no attempt to address the needs of building and operating a network infrastructure at massive, cloud scale. As a result, as enterprises moved applications to the cloud and implemented hybrid and multi-cloud strategies, there have been insufficient solutions that could configure, deploy, automate, and manage these scaled and dispersed resources. In the post-pandemic world, enterprise campus wired and wireless networks must cope with an ever increasing number of endpoint IoT devices and remote work locations that require users to be connected from virtually anywhere. Campus administrators have sought to address the resulting increased network complexities and bottlenecks through the adoption of a myriad of platforms, operating systems, proprietary features and network management tools. Coupled with the explosive growth of IoT and the requirement for remote workloads, the operational costs of managing these complexities have become prohibitive. Visibility is a critical component to a more efficient cloud-like network. Being able to capture what a network is thinking or doing is the basis for true network automation and analytics. Legacy networking has long suffered from limitations in network visibility largely due to inefficient polling mechanisms that only provide a limited subset of data. As a result, the operators of legacy networks have been essentially blinded when it comes to true network insight. Our Data-Driven Cloud Networking Solutions Our cloud networking innovations started with pioneering a modern software platform, Arista EOS, which provides switching, routing, state-streaming and telemetry functions across all Arista platforms. EOS established a new standard in networking for large-scale cloud operators, opened the door to the widespread adoption of merchant silicon hardware in 3 Table of Contents networks, and provided dramatic decreases in deployment and operating costs while delivering high reliability for cloud customers, service providers, enterprises, and more. The Arista EOS network stack architecture provides a foundation for consolidation of streamed device state, telemetry, packet, flow, alert, sensor and third-party data into an aggregated Network Data Lake (Arista EOS NetDL ). Arista EOS NetDL consolidates diverse datasets required for effectively applying AI/Machine Learning (ML) methods in Network Operations (NetOps) and Security Operations (SecOps) environments, and it presents a single application programming interface ("API") surface for access to network and network-related data for enhancing Arista and third-party applications. An overview of our cloud networking solutions is shown below: The key benefits of our cloud networking solutions are as follows: Capacity, Performance and Scale Our data-driven cloud networking platforms enable data center networks to scale to hundreds of thousands of physical servers and millions of virtual machines with the least number of switching tiers. We achieve this by leveraging standard protocols, non-blocking switch architectures and EOS to meet the scale requirements of cloud computing. We architect active-active Layer 2 and Layer 3 network topologies to enable customers to build extremely large and resilient networks. Emerging capabilities including recent developments related to AI will continue to place increased demands on networking infrastructure. Arista s strategic commitment to using merchant silicon is also a key competitive differentiator for Arista in addressing these capacity demands. Merchant silicon not only provides the best price/performance available but allows Arista to bring next generation platforms to market early allowing customers to benefit from Moore s Law. Availability Networks are only useful when they are available. Arista s modular EOS architecture and software testing innovations provide features and network designs that keep the network available even during maintenance and upgrades. EOS publish-subscribe architecture provides self-healing resiliency through live patching, upgrades, fault isolation and containment and graceful process restart to reduce maintenance windows and allow for intelligent insertion and removal of network elements. Openness and Programmability Customers demand open, standards-based networking that avoids vendor lock-in and enables third-party integration to support best in-class technology ecosystems. Arista EOS, built on Linux, features open standard protocols, such as Border Gateway Protocol ("BGP") and Ethernet VPN ("EVPN"), offering interoperable solutions. Our well-structured set of APIs and EOS Software Development Kit ("SDK") as well as multiple DevOps integrations, enable enterprises to automate networking provisioning without manual intervention. EOS also natively supports Ansible, CFEngine, Chef, Puppet, virtual network orchestration applications and third party management tools. Visibility 4 Table of Contents Monitoring network performance in real time is a core need for current and next-generation architectures to run dependably. Arista EOS and CloudVision bring a modern approach to network telemetry and a replacement for legacy polling mechanisms. CloudVision Analytics engines and CloudVision Telemetry Apps leverage the state streaming infrastructure of EOS and NetDL to give Arista customers an unprecedented level of visibility into their network operations. Arista EOS also supports multiple telemetry tracers that bring deeper workload-level visibility by integrating with distributed applications like big data, cloud, container and virtualized environments. Security Arista focuses on building security into the networking layers through features native to EOS, such as segmentation and encryption, as well as NDR powered by AI. Arista s zero trust networking principles, based on NIST 800-207, help customers address security challenges with three cornerstones: visibility, continuous diagnostics, and enforcement. The Arista NDR platform delivers continuous diagnostics for the entire enterprise threat landscape, processes countless points of data, senses abnormalities or threats, and reacts if necessary. Operational Efficiency Automation is critical to delivering operational efficiency and Arista has taken the lessons learned from building large public clouds and engineered network automation into our CloudVision management platform. CloudVision eliminates burdensome manual tasks so organizations can become more agile in making changes to network infrastructure. Fewer manual configurations enable faster time to service and improved availability for our customers. Our open APIs enable standards-based integration with third-party tools as well, supporting additional automation capabilities. Total Cost of Ownership We believe our programmable, scalable leaf-spine architectures, combined with our applications, significantly reduce networking costs when compared to legacy network designs, enabling faster time to service and improved availability. Our automation tools reduce the operational costs of provisioning, managing and monitoring a data center network and speed up service delivery. Our tools provide visibility into complex network environments without the need for additional data collection equipment. Cognitive Campus Workspace Arista s Cognitive campus is based on a data driven architecture and offers consistent, unified management across the campus edge for wired and wireless networks as well as integrated security proactive network assurance. Our Cognitive Campus Networking solutions are based on three capabilities: Universal Cloud Network (UCN) - Offered as an alternative to brittle, proprietary solutions from legacy vendors, Arista UCN is an open, standards-based design focusing on data-driven control principles. Arista s Spline TM architecture, 7300 Series spine switches, 720/750 Series POE leaf switches, and Wi-Fi platforms consolidate campus layers into simpler topologies that reduce costs and improve reliability. Cognitive Operations - The Cognitive management features built into the Arista CloudVision rely on NetDL to collect real time streaming telemetry from across the campus network and automates many critical IT functions. These features provide real time visibility into the state of the network including traffic flows. CloudVision s AI-enabled AVA leverages data from NetDL for AI/ML-driven outcomes, helping to detect anomalies in the network, identify root causes and offer recommendations for mitigation. The Wi-Fi access points in conjunction with CloudVision also provide proactive network assurance to monitor end user experience without the need for an overlay network. Zero-trust Network Securit y - Securing the Campus requires a built-in approach to network segmentation, encryption, device compliance and auditing, as well as service integration with Arista s security partners. Arista delivers these capabilities through EOS and CloudVision AVA. Arista campus leaf switches have an integrated AVA sensor that enables the access layer to provide Arista NDR capability without the complexity and cost of additional network monitoring devices. Arista s Macro Segmentation Service Group (MSS-G) provides a simpler, standards-based approach to segmenting traffic in the campus that is more flexible than other proprietary solutions. We believe Arista s Wireless Intrusion Prevention Service (WIPS) provides strong security while eliminating false positives. Our Competitive Strengths 5 Table of Contents We believe the following strengths will allow us to maintain and extend our technology leadership position in data-driven cloud networking and next-generation data center and campus workspace Ethernet products: Purpose-Built Cloud Networking Platform - We have developed a highly scalable cloud networking platform that uses software to address the needs of large-scale cloud companies, cloud service providers, and large enterprises, including AI, virtualization, big data and low-latency applications. As a result, our cloud networking platform does not have the inherent limitations of legacy network architectures. Broad and Differentiated Portfolio - Using multiple merchant silicon architectures, we deliver switches, capable of routing, with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency, and have innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, highly available modular hardware, and reversible cooling options. Our broad portfolio has allowed us to offer customers products that best match their specific requirements. Single Binary Image Software - The single binary image of EOS software allows us to maintain feature consistency across our entire product portfolio and enables us to introduce new software innovations into the market that become available to our entire installed base without a forklift upgrade (i.e., a broad upgrade of the data center infrastructure). Rapid Development of New Features and Applications - Our highly modular EOS software has allowed us to rapidly deliver new features and applications while preserving the