Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 50 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 50 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 51 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 52 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 54 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Item 9. Change in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 110 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 111 Item 11. Executive Compensation 111 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 111 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 111 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 111 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 112 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 115 Signatures 116 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, Use of Proceeds, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, predict, expect and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth and our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin and operating expenses; our belief that the cloud networking market is rapidly evolving and has a significant potential opportunity for growth; our ability to expand our leadership position in the network switch industry, including the areas of mobility, virtualization, network monitoring, cloud computing and cloud networks, and to develop new products and expand our business into new markets such as the campus and enterprise data center markets; our ability to satisfy the requirements for cloud networking solutions and to successfully anticipate technological shifts and market needs, innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner including any increased adoption of new technology solutions or consumption models such as commoditized hardware technology or open source networking solutions; our ability to integrate and realize the benefits of our recent and future acquisitions; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth, including the reporting requirements and compliance obligations of a public company; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and the potential outcomes of such disputes, such as those claims discussed in Legal Proceedings ; our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new end customers, including large end customers; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of end customers, including large end customers who may receive lower pricing terms due to volume discounts or who may elect to re-assign allocations to multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects; the growth and buying patterns of our large end customers in which large bulk purchases may or may not occur in certain quarters; our inability to fulfill our end customers orders due to supply chain delays, access to key commodities or technologies or events that impact our manufacturers or their suppliers such as the recent U.S. trade wars with China or the impact of public health epidemics like the coronavirus currently affecting China; the deferral or cancellation of orders by end customers, warranty returns or delays in acceptance of our products; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base and sell more complex and higher-performance configurations of our products; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our belief that increasing channel leverage will extend and improve our engagement with a broad set of customers; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; the benefits realized by our customers in their use of our products and services including lower total cost of ownership; our ability to expand our business domestically and internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal and cyclical trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; economic and industry trends; estimates and estimate methodologies used in preparing our financial statements; future trading prices of our common stock; our belief that we have adequately reserved for uncertain tax positions; global economic and political conditions that introduce instability into the U.S. economy; the impact of global and domestic tax reform, including the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; the impact of tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods, including the tariffs implemented by the U.S. government on various imports from China; our belief that our existing cash and cash equivalents together with cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements and our growth strategies for the foreseeable future; and our ability to identify, complete and realize the benefits of future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies; These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Arista Networks pioneered software-driven, cognitive cloud networking for large-scale datacenter and campus environments. Our cloud networking solutions consist of our Extensible Operating System ("EOS"), a set of network applications and our Ethernet switching and routing platforms. Our cloud networking solutions deliver industry-leading performance, scalability, availability, programmability, automation and visibility. At the core of our cloud networking platform is EOS, which was purpose-built to be fully programmable, highly modular and reliable. The programmability of EOS has allowed us to create a set of software applications that address the requirements of cloud networking, including workflow automation, network visibility and analytics, and has also allowed us to rapidly integrate with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services. Since we began shipping our products, we have grown rapidly, and, according to market research, we have achieved the second largest market share in data center Ethernet switch ports. We have been profitable and cash flow positive for each year since 2010. EOS supports leading cloud and virtualization solutions, including VMware NSX, Microsoft System Center, OpenStack and other cloud management frameworks. We have worked with industry leaders to define new open protocols for the virtualized data center. We co-authored the VXLAN protocol specification with VMware and were the first to demonstrate VXLAN integration and have now expanded VXLAN routing and integration. We use standard Linux as our underlying operating system, providing customers with access to all Linux operating system facilities. This allows customers to extend our EOS software with off-the-shelf Linux applications and a growing number of open source management tools. EOS has a highly modular architecture, which allows us to prevent network outages in deployments of our cloud networking solutions. This architecture also allows us to rapidly develop new features and protocols without compromising the quality of the existing code base. Because all of our platform products are powered by the same binary image of EOS, we are able to deliver these new innovations to our entire installed base with minimal disruption. In 2015, we introduced CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation delivering a turnkey solution for cloud networking. We believe CloudVision s abstraction of the physical network to this broader, network-wide perspective allows for a more efficient approach for several operational use-cases related to automation, visibility, management, security and 3rd party controller integration. In 2018, we announced a new network architecture designed to redefine the campus network into a cognitive single-tier Spline TM driven by a single image operating system that extends across the campus and the data center. Leveraging EOS and CloudVision , our Cognitive Cloud Networking approach brings operational consistency and modern cloud principles to the enterprise campus in the face of a proliferation of Internet of Things ("IOT") related users, behaviors and complexities. As part of the enterprise campus solution, we acquired Mojo Networks, Inc. ( Mojo ), inventor of Cognitive WiFi TM and a leader in cloud-managed wireless networking. We also acquired Metamako Holding PTY LTD. ( Metamako ), a leader in low-latency, FPGA-enabled network solutions. In 2019, we completed the introduction of ten new 400G platforms. In the Leaf/Spine High Network Radix category, we offer two new fixed 32 port 400G switches, and a 128 port 100G/32 port 400G modular switch. For the Universal Leaf and Spine category of switching, we introduced our R3 series 100G and 400G products supporting up to 2.5M routes on our 7280R3 series fixed and 7500R3 series modular platforms. We also introduced a new modular family called the 7800R3, a high density 100G and 400G platform supporting up to 460 Tbps of system throughput. In addition, we launched the 720XP Series of fixed Power over Ethernet (PoE) leaf switches with mGig and 60W PoE, enabling us to offer a complete end to end solution for cognitive campus ethernet, as well as the introduction of our new WiFi-6 wireless APs. We sell our products through both our direct sales force and our channel partners. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, 1 Table of Contents government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. Our customers include six of the largest cloud services providers based on annual revenue. Industry Background Cloud computing is fundamentally changing the way IT infrastructure is built and how applications are delivered. In cloud computing, applications are distributed across thousands of servers. These servers are connected with high-speed network switches that, together, form a pool of resources that allows applications to be rapidly deployed and cost-effectively updated. Cloud computing enables ubiquitous and on-demand network access to these applications from internet-connected devices including personal computers, tablets and smartphones. Nearly all consumer applications today are delivered as cloud services. Enterprise applications are rapidly moving to the cloud as well, since cloud services are easier and more cost effective to deploy, scale and operate than traditional applications. Internet leaders like Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft pioneered the development of large-scale cloud data centers in order to meet the growing demands of their users, including business customers. Enterprises and service providers around the world are adopting cloud computing technologies in order to achieve similar performance improvements and cost reductions. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can be orders of magnitude higher than typical legacy data center networks. Therefore, the networks in such cloud environments must be architected and built in a new way. We refer to these next-generation data center networks as cloud networks. Cloud networks must deliver high capacity, high availability and predictable performance and must be programmable to allow integration with third-party applications for network, management, automation, orchestration and network services. Limitations of Traditional Data Center Networks In our view, cloud networks and legacy networks are fundamentally different. In a traditional data center, specific applications are installed on a small number of servers, and most network traffic is server-to-client, or north-south traffic, which results in perhaps a few terabits/second of aggregate network bandwidth. In the cloud, most network traffic is server-to-server, or east-west traffic. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can exceed 1 Petabit/second, orders of magnitude higher than that of typical legacy data center networks. The much larger scale of cloud networks requires much higher network availability since network outages in the cloud are very expensive in terms of customer impact. Traditional network switches have evolved, and the features and capabilities of their operating system have expanded over many years without addressing the structural deficiencies of their underlying software architectures, making it difficult to achieve high network switch reliability. Some networking vendors have built products that use proprietary protocols to address the scaling needs of next-generation data centers. However, proprietary protocols are generally not acceptable to internet companies or cloud service providers because they create vendor lock-in. Legacy networks are not programmable and, as a result, are extremely difficult to integrate with third-party applications for network management, automation, orchestration and network services. This lack of integration forces customers to continue to rely on time consuming, error-prone manual processes that may be cost-prohibitive. Limitations of Traditional Enterprise Campus Networks Traditional enterprise campus networks suffer from complex bottlenecks brought on by the myriad of platforms, operating systems, proprietary features and network management tools. Coupled with the explosive growth of IoT and endpoints as well as the requirement for workloads, users and devices to be connected anywhere, the operational costs of managing these complexities become prohibitive. Our Cloud Networking Solutions We are a leading supplier of cloud networking solutions that use software innovations to address the needs of large-scale internet companies, cloud service providers and next-generation enterprise data centers and campuses. Our cloud networking platform was purpose-built to address the functional and performance requirements for 2 Table of Contents cloud networks. We deliver our solutions via our industry-leading 1/2.5/5/10/25/40/50/100/400 Gigabit Ethernet switches and routers optimized for next-generation data center networks. Our cloud networking solutions consist of EOS, a set of networking applications and our Gigabit Ethernet platforms. At the core of our cloud networking platform is EOS, which was architected to be fully programmable and highly modular. The programmability of EOS has allowed us to create a set of software applications and application programming interfaces ("APIs"), that address the requirements of cloud networking, including workflow automation, network visibility and analytics, and has further allowed us to integrate rapidly with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services. The key benefits of our cloud networking solutions are as follows: Capacity, Performance and Scalability Our cloud networking platform enables data center networks to scale to hundreds of thousands of physical servers and millions of virtual machines with the least number of switching tiers. We achieve this by leveraging standard protocols to meet the scale requirements of cloud computing. We have used active-active Layer 2 and Layer 3 network topologies to enable customers to build extremely large and resilient networks. High Availability Our highly modular EOS software architecture was designed to be fault-isolating and self-healing in order to deliver higher stability compared to legacy network operating systems. In addition, our customers can non-disruptively upgrade our switches running in the network using our Smart System Upgrade, or SSU, application. Open and Programmable Our EOS software was purpose-built to offer programmable interfaces throughout all levels of our software. This has allowed us to integrate our cloud networking platform with a wide range of leading third-party applications. For example, we support VMware NSX, OpenConfig/YANG and Microsoft System Center for orchestration and fast provisioning, enabling true workload mobility and automatic provisioning of physical switches. We enable customers, through APIs, to write their own scripts to customize and optimize their networks. Workflow Automation Our EOS software enables enterprises to provision networking resources in minutes with no manual intervention through our Zero Touch Provisioning. We also natively support Ansible, CFEngine, Chef, Puppet, virtual network orchestration applications and third-party management tools. CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation delivers a turnkey solution for cloud networking. CloudVision extends the same EOS architectural approach across the network for state, topology, monitoring and visibility. This enables enterprises to move to cloud-class automation without needing significant internal development. Finally, EOS embraces the DevOps model, which is a software development method that combines development and operations, to provision and monitor servers, storage and network resources in a unified fashion. Network Visibility Our EOS software provides a set of tools and applications that proactively monitor, detect and notify network managers when network issues arise, delivering real-time data to third-party management applications including Corvil, ExtraHop, Riverbed and Splunk to provide detailed application visibility. Our telemetry applications include VM Tracer, which provides visibility down to the virtual machine level, Path Tracer, which detects errors in provisioned network paths, MapReduce Tracer, which monitors and optimizes the performance of Hadoop workloads, Flow Tracker which can visualize all connected endpoints including iPhones, iPads and IOT devices, and Health Tracer, which monitors infrastructure resiliency. Our network visibility applications provide real-time insight into the status of the network. They include LANZ, which monitors latency, and DANZ 2017, a set of features previously only available in add-on network visibility devices, which provides advanced traffic monitoring with flow analysis and timestamps, plus the ability to perform tap aggregation for reporting and analysis. 3 Table of Contents Security Macro-Segmentation Services (MSS ) is one of the services enabled via CloudVision. Since CloudVision maintains a network-wide database of all state within the network, as well as direct integration with hypervisor resources like VMware vSphere and NSX. It is aware of every workload that is within the network and it learns in real time about new devices or workloads that are added or removed from the network, or moved across ports or servers. Macro-segmentation extends the concept of fine-grained inter-hypervisor security to cloud networks by enabling dynamic security and services for physical to virtual workloads. Macro-segmentation security is a complement to fine-grained security delivered via micro-segmentation that is already implemented in the virtual switch of the physical host on which a VM is running. Lower Total Cost of Ownership Our cloud networking platform offers architectural and system advantages that provide our customers with cost-effective and highly available cloud networking solutions. Our programmable, scalable leaf-spine architectures, combined with industry-leading applications, significantly reduce networking costs when compared to legacy network designs, enabling faster time to service and improved availability. Our automation tools reduce the operational costs of provisioning, managing and monitoring a data center network and speed up service delivery. Our visibility tools provide high levels of visibility into complex network environments without the need for additional data collection equipment. As a result, fewer network engineers are needed to operate large networks. Enterprise Campus Networks Arista CloudVision, built on the Cognitive Management Plane (CMP) engine, is a platform for turnkey orchestration, provisioning and telemetry. Born initially in the data center era, CloudVision now extends the same common operational model to the campus providing unified wired and wireless management as well as on-premise and cloud hosted data center management. Today s wired and wireless campus networks must cope with ever-increasing endpoint devices necessitating the understanding of endpoint behavior. CloudVision s latest feature Device Analyzer provides inventory and deep flow analysis of all connected devices. Campus administrators can access device type, connectivity method, location and communication patterns. This visibility enables an administrator to identify unauthorized traffic and compromised endpoints. Since CloudVision spans the data center and the campus, customers can leverage a single platform for end-to-end troubleshooting. Our Market Opportunity We compete primarily in the data center switching market for 10 Gigabit Ethernet and above, excluding blade switches. We more recently began to compete in the enterprise campus market for 1 Gigabit Ethernet switching and above and in the cloud-managed wireless networking market. We believe that cloud computing represents a fundamental shift from traditional legacy network architectures. As organizations of all sizes have moved workloads to the cloud, spending on cloud and next-generation data centers has increased rapidly, while traditional legacy IT spending has grown more slowly. Our Customers As of December 31, 2019, we had delivered our cloud networking solutions to over 6,000 end customers worldwide in approximately 94 countries. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. For the year ended December 31, 2019, purchases by Microsoft and Facebook each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. In addition, for each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, Microsoft accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Purchases by both of these customers are primarily fulfilled through our channel partners. Our Competitive Strengths We believe the following strengths will allow us to maintain and extend our technology leadership position in cloud networking and next-generation data center Ethernet products: 4 Table of Contents Purpose-Built Cloud Networking Platform. We have developed a highly scalable cloud networking platform that uses software to address the needs of large-scale internet companies, cloud service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies and media and entertainment companies, including virtualization, big data and low-latency applications. As a result, our cloud networking platform does not have the inherent limitations of legacy network architectures. Broad and Differentiated Portfolio. Using multiple silicon architectures, we deliver switches and routers with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency and have innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, embedded optics and reversible cooling. Our broad portfolio has allowed us to offer customers products that best match their specific requirements. Single Binary Image Software. The single binary image of EOS software allows us to maintain feature consistency across our entire product portfolio and enables us to introduce new software innovations into the market that become available to our entire installed base without a forklift upgrade (i.e., a broad upgrade of the data center infrastructure). Rapid Development of New Features and Applications. Our highly modular EOS software has allowed us to rapidly deliver new features and applications while preserving the structural integrity and quality of our network operating system. We believe our ability to deliver new features and capabilities more quickly than legacy switch/router operators, provides us with a strategic advantage given that the requirements in cloud and next-generation data center networking continue to evolve rapidly. Deep Understanding of Customer Requirements. We have developed close working relationships with many of our largest customers that provide us with insights about their needs and future requirements. This has allowed us to develop and deliver products to market that meet customer demands and expectations as well as to rapidly grow sales to existing customers. Strong Management and Engineering Team with Significant Data Center Networking Expertise. Our management and engineering team consists of networking veterans with extensive data center networking expertise. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jayshree Ullal, with 30+ years of networking expertise from silicon to systems companies. Andy Bechtolsheim, our Founder and Chief Development Officer, was previously a founder and chief system architect at Sun Microsystems. Kenneth Duda, our Founder and Chief Technology Officer, led the software development effort of EOS. Significant Technology Lead. We believe that our networking technology represents a fundamental advance in networking software. Our EOS software is state-driven and the result of more than 1,000 man-years of research and development investment over a ten-year period with 10+ million lines of code as a key cloud networking software stack. Our Products and Technology We offer one of the broadest product lines of datacenter and campus 1/2.5/5/10/25/40/50/100/400 Gigabit Ethernet switches and routers in the industry, comprising our 720XP, 7010/7020R Series, 7050X Series, 7060X Series, 7130 Series, 7160 Series, 7150 Series, 7170 Series, 7250X Series, 7280R Series Universal Leaf products, 7300X Series Spline products, and our 7500R/7800R Series Universal Spine products. We deliver routing and switching platforms with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency. We have also innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, embedded optics and reversible cooling. An overview of our switching/routing portfolio is shown in the figure below. 5 Table of Contents Our Extensible Operating System The core of our cloud networking platform is our EOS which runs on top of standard Linux and offers programmability at all layers of the stack. All of our Ethernet platforms run our EOS software. EOS is based on a new and innovative architecture that is highly modular and consists of more than 100 separate processes that we call agents, each one handling specific protocol processing, device driver or system management functions. Each agent runs in user space as a separate Linux process and is completely protected and isolated from all other agents. We are constantly investing in our core infrastructur