Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6. [Reserved] 48 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 48 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 61 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 Item 9. Change in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 102 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 102 Item 9B. Other Information 103 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 104 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 105 Item 11. Executive Compensation 105 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 105 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 109 Signatures 110 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business, Risk Factors, Use of Proceeds, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, predict, expect and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth and our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin and operating expenses; our belief that the networking market is rapidly evolving and has a significant potential opportunity for growth; the capabilities of our technology including our cloud networking platform; our ability to expand our leadership position in the network switch industry, including the areas of mobility, virtualization, network monitoring, cloud computing and cloud networks, and to develop new products and expand our business into new markets such as the campus workspace, enterprise data center and security markets; our ability to satisfy the requirements for networking solutions and to successfully anticipate technological shifts and market needs, innovate new products, rapidly develop new features and applications, and bring them to market in a timely manner including any increased adoption of new technology solutions or consumption models such as commoditized hardware technology or open source networking solutions; our inability to fulfill our end customers orders due to supply chain delays, access to key commodities or technologies or events that impact our manufacturers or their suppliers such as the recent U.S. trade wars or the impact of the global coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic; the demand for our solutions, products and services we offer; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; our ability to integrate and realize the benefits of our recent and future acquisitions; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims and the potential outcomes of such disputes, such as any claims discussed in Legal Proceedings ; our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new end customers, including large end customers; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of end customers, including large end customers who may receive lower pricing terms due to volume discounts or who may elect to re-assign allocations to multiple vendors based upon specific network roles or projects; the growth and buying patterns of our large end customers in which large bulk purchases may or may not occur in certain quarters; our expectations regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business; the deferral or cancellation of orders by end customers, warranty returns or delays in acceptance of our products; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base and sell more complex and higher-performance configurations of our products; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our belief that increasing channel leverage will extend and improve our engagement with a broad set of customers; our plans to continue to expand our sales force, marketing activities and relationships with channel, technology and system-level partners; our plans to invest in our research and development; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; the benefits realized by our customers in their use of our products and services including lower total cost of ownership; our ability to expand our business domestically and internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal and cyclical trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our brand and intellectual property; economic and industry trends; estimates and estimate methodologies used in preparing our financial statements; future trading prices of our common stock; our belief that we have adequately reserved for uncertain tax positions; global economic and political conditions that introduce instability into the U.S. economy; the impact of global and domestic tax reform; the impact of tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods; our belief that our existing cash and cash equivalents together with cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements and our growth strategies for the foreseeable future; and our ability to identify, complete and realize the benefits of future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Arista Networks pioneered data-driven, cognitive cloud networking for large-scale data center and campus workspace environments. At the core of Arista's platform is an advanced network operating system, Arista's Extensible Operating System ("EOS"), combined with a set of network and Ethernet switching and routing platforms based on merchant silicon. We are a leader in cloud networking solutions delivering high performance, scalability, availability, programmability, automation, and visibility. In recent years, we have brought the operational consistency and principles of cloud networking to the broader enterprise and campus markets with our Cognitive Cloud Networking approach, extending EOS across the enterprise data center and campus wired and wireless workspace. CloudVision , our workload orchestration and automation solution, leverages EOS based network wide data models to deliver turnkey automation and configuration capabilities across data center, wired and wireless workspaces, multi-cloud, and WAN routing use cases. In 2020, we completed the acquisition of Big Switch Networks, a pioneer in network monitoring software and Awake Security, an AI-driven network detection and response (NDR) company. We believe the integration of these capabilities with Arista s network-wide, data-based visibility and telemetry offerings delivers the next generation of operationally efficient network security and visibility solutions. In addition, we continued to expand our 400G product portfolio for both enterprise and cloud customers with the introduction of the next generation 7050X/7060X and 7300X Series switches delivering performance and cost benefits for customers of all sizes as they transition to 400G. We also continue to expand our cognitive campus edge portfolio with the new C-360 Wi-Fi 6E access point to take advantage of the greater capacity, higher bandwidth, and lower latency of Wi-Fi 6E. Since we began shipping our products, we have grown rapidly, and, according to market research, we have achieved the second largest market share in data center Ethernet switch ports and revenue, excluding China. We have been profitable and cash flow positive for each year since 2010. We sell our products through both our direct sales force and our channel partners. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. Our Market Opportunity We compete primarily in the data center switching market for 10 Gigabit Ethernet and above, excluding blade switches. We added advanced routing capabilities to our R-Series switches, which in addition to switching address the Data Center Interconnect (DCI) market, cloud-grade routing, next-generation network edge and parts of the wide area networking routing market. We also compete in the enterprise campus market for 1 Gigabit Ethernet switching and above and in the cloud-managed wireless networking market. In addition, our acquisitions of Big Switch Networks and Awake Security enhance our ability to address a portion of the Network Monitoring and NDR security markets. We believe that cloud computing represents a fundamental shift from traditional legacy network architectures. As organizations of all sizes have moved workloads to the cloud, spending on cloud and next-generation data centers has increased rapidly, while traditional legacy IT spending has grown more slowly. Our Customers As of December 31, 2021, we had delivered our cloud networking solutions to over 8,000 end customers worldwide. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, purchases by Microsoft accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Cloud Networking and Digital Transformation Market Drivers 1 Table of Contents Digital transformation is fundamentally changing the way IT infrastructure is built and how applications are delivered from a cloud environment. In cloud computing, applications are distributed across thousands of servers. These servers are connected with high-speed network switches that, together, form a pool of resources that allows applications to be rapidly deployed and cost-effectively updated. Cloud computing enables ubiquitous and on-demand network access to these applications from internet-connected devices including personal computers, tablets, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and smartphones. Nearly all consumer applications today are delivered as cloud services. Enterprise applications are rapidly moving to the cloud as cloud services are easier and more cost effective to deploy, scale and operate than traditional applications. Internet leaders like Amazon, Meta Platforms, Google, and Microsoft pioneered the development of large-scale cloud data centers in order to meet the growing demands of their users, including business customers. Enterprises and service providers around the world are adopting cloud computing technologies in order to achieve similar performance improvements and cost reductions. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can be orders of magnitude higher than typical legacy data center networks. Therefore, the networks in such cloud environments must be architected and built in a new way. We refer to these next-generation data center networks as cloud networks. Cloud networks must deliver high capacity, high availability and predictable performance, and must be programmable to allow integration with third-party applications for network management, automation, orchestration, and network services. 2 Table of Contents Examples of key secular trends driving network transformation are illustrated below: Limitations of Traditional Enterprise Data Center and Campus Networks We believe that cloud networks and legacy networks are fundamentally different. In a traditional data center, specific applications are installed on a small number of servers and most network traffic is server-to-client, or north-south traffic, which results in perhaps a few terabits/second of aggregate network bandwidth. In the cloud, most network traffic is server-to-server, or east-west traffic. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can exceed 1 petabit/second, orders of magnitude higher than that of typical legacy data center networks. The much larger scale of cloud networks requires much higher network availability since network outages in the cloud are costly to customers. Traditional network switches have evolved, and the features and capabilities of their operating system have expanded over many years without addressing the structural deficiencies of their underlying software architectures, making it difficult to achieve high network switch reliability. Some networking vendors have built products that use proprietary protocols to address the scaling needs of next-generation data centers. However, proprietary protocols are generally disfavored by internet companies or cloud service providers because they create vendor lock-in. Legacy enterprise networks are generally not programmable and, as a result, are extremely difficult to integrate with third-party applications for network management, automation, orchestration and network services. This lack of integration forces customers to continue to rely on time consuming, error-prone manual processes that may be cost-prohibitive. Traditional enterprise wired and wireless campus networks must cope with an ever-increasing number of endpoint IoT devices for users to be connected anywhere. Campus administrators have sought to address the resulting increased network complexities and bottlenecks through the adoption of a myriad of platforms, operating systems, proprietary features and network management tools. Coupled with the explosive growth of IoT and the requirement for workloads, the operational costs of managing these complexities have become prohibitive. Our Cloud Networking Solutions 3 Table of Contents The core of Arista's platform is an advanced network operating system, Arista's EOS, which was designed to be fully programmable, modular and reliable. The programmability of EOS has allowed us to expand our software applications to address the ever-increasing demands of cloud networking, including data driven workflow automation, network visibility, analytics and network detection and response, and has further allowed us to integrate rapidly with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services. An overview of our cloud networking solutions is shown below: The key benefits of our cloud networking solutions are as follows: Capacity, Performance and Scalability Our cloud networking platform enables data center networks to scale to hundreds of thousands of physical servers and millions of virtual machines with the least number of switching tiers. We achieve this by leveraging standard protocols to meet the scale requirements of cloud computing. We have used active-active Layer 2 and Layer 3 network topologies to enable customers to build extremely large and resilient networks. High Availability Our highly modular EOS software architecture was designed to be fault-isolating and self-healing in order to deliver higher availability compared to legacy network operating systems. In addition, our customers can non-disruptively upgrade our switches running in the network using our Smart System Upgrade ("SSU") application, without interrupting the network service. Open and Programmable Our EOS software was purpose-built to offer programmable interfaces throughout all levels of our software. This has allowed us to integrate our cloud networking platform with a wide range of leading third-party applications. For example, we support VMware NSX, OpenConfig/YANG and Microsoft System Center for orchestration and fast provisioning, enabling true workload mobility and automatic provisioning of physical switches. We enable customers, through Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), to write their own scripts to customize and optimize their networks. Workflow Automation 4 Table of Contents Our EOS software enables enterprises to provision networking resources in minutes with no manual intervention through our Zero Touch Provisioning. We also natively support Ansible, CFEngine, Chef, Puppet, virtual network orchestration applications and third-party management tools. CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation, delivers a turnkey solution to enterprises looking to modernize their data centers for cloud networking. CloudVision extends the same EOS architectural approach across the network for state, topology, monitoring and visibility. This enables enterprises to move to cloud-class automation without needing significant internal development. Finally, EOS embraces the DevOps model, which is a software development method that combines development and operations, to provision and monitor servers, storage and network resources in a unified fashion. Network Visibility Our EOS software provides a set of tools and applications that proactively monitor, detect and notify network managers when network issues arise, delivering real-time data to third-party network performance and security applications to provide detailed application visibility. Our network visibility applications provide real-time insight into the status of the network. Through the integration of DataANalyZer ("DANZ") features native to Arista switches with Big Switch s monitoring software, we provide the DANZ Monitoring Fabric (DMF). DMF delivers network traffic analysis, data analytics and contextual insights to enterprises looking for network-wide observability. Security Macro-Segmentation Services (MSS TM ) is one of the services enabled via CloudVision. Since CloudVision maintains a network-wide database of all states within the network, as well as direct integration with hypervisor resources like VMware vSphere and NSX, Macro-Segmentation extends the concept of fine-grained inter-hypervisor security to cloud networks by enabling dynamic security and services for physical to virtual workloads, and is a complement to fine-grained security delivered via Micro-Segmentation that is already implemented in the virtual switch of the physical host on which a VM is running. Arista network detection and response (NDR) is an advanced solution that delivers answers, not alerts. By combining artificial intelligence with human expertise, Arista NDR autonomously hunts for both insider and external attacker behaviors, while providing triage, digital forensics and incident response across the entire network campus workspace, data center, IoT/OT and cloud networks Lower Total Cost of Ownership Our cloud networking platform offers architectural and system advantages that provide our customers with cost-effective and highly available cloud networking solutions. We believe our programmable, scalable leaf-spine architectures, combined with our applications, significantly reduce networking costs when compared to legacy network designs, enabling faster time to service and improved availability. Our automation tools reduce the operational costs of provisioning, managing and monitoring a data center network and speed up service delivery. Our visibility tools provide high levels of visibility into complex network environments without the need for additional data collection equipment. As a result, this lowers operational costs because fewer network engineers are needed to operate large networks. Cognitive Campus Workspace Arista s solutions apply the principles of cognitive cloud computing to campus networks, with the intent of disrupting the wasteful, oversubscribed legacy three-tier architecture of access-aggregation-core. As the devices move to more disparate IoT for voice, video, and data traffic, Arista is addressing these trends in the campus network by using cognitive controls and analytics, driven by a single-image operating system that extends across the campus and the data center. Using a cloud-based approach reduces operational costs by incorporating a network that is a seamless end-to-end solution rather than silos of different places in the network. Arista s cognitive campus workspace is a data-driven model coupled with our unified dashboard for wired/wireless edge for next gen zero touch campus deployments. Together, with zero trust security, the cognitive campus drives multifaceted visibility for Internet of things ("IoT") and operational technology ("OT") applications. 5 Table of Contents Our Cognitive Campus Networking solutions are based on three principles: Universal Cloud Network - We offer our Universal Cloud Network as an alternative to brittle, proprietary solutions from legacy vendors. Our Universal Cloud Network is an open, standards-based design focusing on software-driven control principles. Our collapsed Spline approach consolidates traditional campus core and aggregation layers into a simple single tier with high availability. Cognitive Management Plane - There is a void in management plane consistency and a need for data-driven analytics in the campus, as in the data center. We believe that a common model can be applied across both footprints, saving customers operational costs. The Cognitive Management Plane (CMP) is a data-driven repository for the automated actions across network analytics. Securing The Campus - Securing the Campus requires a holistic approach to network segmentation, device compliance and auditing, as well as service integration with our security partners. We deliver these capabilities through EOS, DMF, NDR and CloudVision. Our Competitive Strengths We believe the following strengths will allow us to maintain and extend our technology leadership position in cognitive cloud networking and next-generation data center and campus workspace Ethernet products: Purpose-Built Cloud Networking Platform. We have developed a highly scalable cloud networking platform that uses software to address the needs of large-scale internet companies, cloud service providers, and large enterprises including financial services organizations, government agencies and media and entertainment companies, including virtualization, big data and low-latency applications. As a result, our cloud networking platform does not have the inherent limitations of legacy network architectures. Broad and Differentiated Portfolio. Using multiple merchant silicon architectures, we deliver switches, capable of routing, with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency, and have innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, highly available modular hardware, and reversible cooling options. Our broad portfolio has allowed us to offer customers products that best match their specific requirements. Single Binary Image Software. The single binary image of EOS software allows us to maintain feature consistency across our entire product portfolio and enables us to introduce new software innovations into the market that become available to our entire installed base without a forklift upgrade (i.e., a broad upgrade of the data center infrastructure). Rapid Development of New Features and Applications. Our highly modular EOS software has allowed us to rapidly deliver new features and applications while preserving the structural integrity and quality of our network operating system. We believe our ability to deliver new features and capabilities more quickly than legacy switch/router operators provides us with a strategic advantage given that the requirements in cloud and next-generation data center networking continue to evolve rapidly. Deep Understanding of Customer Requirements. We have developed close working relationships with many of our largest customers that provide us with insights about their needs and future requirements. This has allowed us to develop and deliver products to market that meet customer demands and expectations as well as to rapidly grow sales to existing customers. Strong Management and Engineering Team with Significant Data Center Networking Expertise. Our management and engineering team consists of networking veterans with extensive data center and campus networking expertise. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jayshree Ullal, has over 30 years of networking expertise from silicon to systems companies. Andy Bechtolsheim, our Founder and Chief Development Officer, was previously a founder and chief system architect at Sun Microsystems. Kenneth Duda, our Founder and Chief Technology Officer, led the software development effort of EOS. 6 Table of Contents Significant Technology Lead. We believe that our networking technology represents a fundamental advance in networking software. Our EOS software is a key cloud networking software stack that is state-driven and a result of tremendous research and development efforts. Our Products and Technology Our portfolio of products and technology consists of our Core Data center/Cloud Switching Products, our Adjacent Campus and Routing Products and our Network Software and Services. Extensible Operating System The core of our cloud networking platform is our data-driven operating system, EOS, which runs on top of standard Linux and offers programmability at all layers of the stack. System state and data are stored in EOS and maintained in a highly efficient, centralized system database where data is accessed via an automated publish/subscribe model. This distinct design principle provides module independence, self-healing resiliency, and multi-process software stability. Arista has continued to evolve the principle of EOS State Orientation from a single-system state database, to NetDB where the network device state is centralized across hundreds of systems, to the EOS Network Data Lake (NetDL) where, in addition to network device state, additional data sources have been added including packet data, flow data, and external enrichment data such as DNS naming and BGP Internet performance data. We believe we are extending classic Software-Defined Networking (SDN) principles to software-driven networking control and an AI-enabled holistic view with NetDL, while building on Arista s core pillars of reliability, open standards, and programmability. EOS Attributes The modular and programmable architecture of EOS enables us to offer a set of attributes, capabilities and features that are essential for cloud networking and next-generation data centers. High Availability EOS is self-healing in the sense that individual processes can be restarted without impacting application traffic. This architectural design principle supports self-healing resiliency in our software, easier software maintenance and module independence, higher software quality overall, and faster time-to-market for new features that customers require. Programmable at All Layers EOS is programmable at all layers from the Linux kernel to switch configuration, provisioning, automation and detailed monitoring of the network. Public cloud providers have leveraged tools such as the EOS Software Development Kit ( SDK ) and eAPI to implement fully customized infrastructure automation solutions. Workflow Visibility