Item 1. Business Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 1C. Cybersecurity Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Income Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevents Inspections PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Item 16. Form 10-K Summary SIGNATURES The below definitions apply throughout this report unless the context requires otherwise: Term Definition AAU Accelerating Aon United Program ABO Accumulated Benefit Obligation AUM Assets Under Management BPS Basis Points CIGC Cyber Incident Governance Committee CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker CPI Consumer Price Index CPO Chief Privacy Officer CSO Chief Security Officer DCF Discounted Cash Flow DOL Department of Labor E O Errors and Omissions EBITDA Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ERM Enterprise risk management ESG Environmental, Social, Corporate Governance E.U. European Union FCA Financial Conduct Authority FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Fitch Fitch, Inc. GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GEOC Global Emergency Operations Center GILTI Global Intangible Low-Tax Income GPO Global Privacy Office GSS Global Security Services I D Inclusion and Diversity LOC Letter of Credit LPP Leadership Performance Plan MDI Market Derived Income NFP National Financial Part ners NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology NYSE New York Stock Exchange OECD Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development PBO Projected Benefit Obligation PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PSA Performance Share Awards REIT Real Estate Investment Trusts ROU Right-of-Use RPGIC Retirement Plan Governance and Investment Committee RSU Restricted Share Units SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate S P Standard Poor s SEC Securities and Exchange Commission U.K. United Kingdom U.S. United States VIE Variable Interest Entity PART I Item 1. Business OVERVIEW Aon plc (which may be referred to as Aon, the Company, we, us, or our ) is a leading global professional services firm providing a broad range of risk and human capital solutions. Through our experience, global reach, and comprehensive analytics, we help clients meet rapidly changing, increasingly complex, and interconnected challenges related to risk and people. We are committed to accelerating innovation to address unmet and evolving client needs so that our clients are better informed, better advised, and able to make better decisions to protect and grow their business. Management remains focused on strengthening Aon and uniting the firm with one portfolio of capability enabled by data and analytics and one operating model to deliver additional insight, connectivity, and efficiency. Our clients are in over 120 countries and sovereignties and include all market segments and almost every industry. This diversification of our customer base helps provide us stability in different economic scenarios that could affect specific industries, customer segments, or geographies. We have continued to focus our portfolio on higher-margin, capital-light professional services businesses that have high recurring revenue streams and strong cash flow generation. We endeavor to make capital allocation decisions based upon return on invested capital. On December 19, 2023, Aon entered into a definitive agreement (the Merger Agreement ) with Randolph Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Aon (the Acquirer ), Randolph Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Acquirer, NFP Intermediate Holdings A Corp., a Delaware corporation ( NFP ), and NFP Parent Co, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the NFP Seller ), pursuant to which the Acquirer will acquire NFP for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $7 billion in cash and approximately 20,000,000 class A ordinary shares, nominal value of $0.01, in capital of Aon, in each case, subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the Merger Agreement (the Transaction ). The Company expects to fund the cash portion of the consideration with approximately $7 billion of new debt, with $5 billion raised i n advance of the closing date and $2 billion raised at close of the acquisition. The acquisition is expected to be completed by mid-2024, subject to satisfaction or waiver of the closing conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, including applicable regulatory approval. BUSINESS SEGMENT We operate as one segment that includes all of our continuing operations, which, as a global professional services firm, provides a broad range of risk and human capital solutions through four solution lines Commercial risk, Reinsurance, Health, and Wealth, which make up our principal products and services. The CODM assesses the performance of the Company and allocates resources based on one segment: Aon United. In 2023, our consolidated total revenue was $13,376 million. This includes $7,043 million in Commercial Risk Solutions, $2,481 million in Reinsurance Solutions, $2,433 million in Health Solutions, and $1,431 million in Wealth Solutions, before certain intercompany eliminations. Principal Products and Services Commercial Risk Solutions includes retail brokerage, specialty solutions, global risk consulting and captives management, and Affinity programs. In retail brokerage, our dedicated teams of risk professionals utilize comprehensive analytics capabilities and insights providing clients with risk advice for their organizations. We utilize Aon s differentiated capabilities in industry sector- and segment-specific approaches, like Digital Client Solutions, to risk transfer options and deliver them through a variety of channels including bespoke solutions for complex needs, structured solutions for mid-market and small and medium-sized enterprises, and digital distribution including CoverWallet. Our specialty-focused organizational structure includes financial and professional lines, cyber, surety and trade credit, crisis management, transaction liability, climate, and intellectual property. We develop market leading insights on the most efficient risk transfer vehicles for clients in today s complex and integrated risk environment to enable clients to make better decisions. Global risk consulting and captive management is a global leader in supporting better management of companies risk profiles by identifying and quantifying the risks they face, mapping out optimal risk mitigation, retention and transfer solutions and thus enabling them to be more informed to make better decisions for their businesses. Affinity programs include development, marketing, and administration of customized and targeted insurance programs, facilities, and other structured solutions, including Aon Client Treaty. We collaborate with sponsors and other privileged distribution channels through which Aon can deliver differentiated, highly targeted, and highly valuable solutions for unique risk solutions. 5 Reinsurance Solutions includes treaty reinsurance, facultative reinsurance, Strategy and Technology Group and capital markets. Treaty reinsurance addresses underwriting and capital objectives on a portfolio level, allowing our clients to more effectively manage the combination of premium growth, return on capital, and rating agency interests on an integrated basis. This includes the development of more competitive, innovative, and efficient risk transfer options. Facultative reinsurance empowers clients to better understand, manage, and transfer risk through innovative facultative solutions and provides the most efficient access to the global facultative reinsurance markets. Strategy and Technology Group combines strategic advice with data-driven consulting, analytics, and modeling tools, including Tyche, ReMetrica, and PathWise, to help clients deploy capital efficiently and effectively. We develop highly customized solutions that help clients drive growth and operational efficiency, improve balance sheet strength and resiliency, and comply with regulatory and operational requirements, including through the execution of reinsurance transactions. Capital markets is a global investment bank with expertise in insurance-linked securities, capital raising, strategic advice, restructuring, and mergers and acquisitions. We partner with insurers, reinsurers, investment firms, and corporations in executing innovative risk management products, capital market solutions and corporate finance advisory services. Health Solutions includes consulting and brokerage, consumer benefits solutions, and talent. Consulting and brokerage develops and implements innovative, customized health and benefits strategies for clients of all sizes across industries and geographies to manage risk, drive engagement, and strengthen the workforce through improved health and wellbeing. We partner with insurers and other strategic partners to develop and implement new and innovative solutions and leverage world-class analytics and technology to help clients make informed decisions and manage healthcare outcomes. Consulting and brokerage also advises multinational companies on global benefits, including insurance placement across more than 120 countries and sovereignties, program design and management, financing optimization, and enhanced employee experience, as well as assists in navigating global regulatory and compliance requirements in countries in which they operate. Consumer benefits solutions designs and delivers innovative voluntary consumer benefits that improve an employer s total rewards strategy and positively impacts their employees financial and overall wellbeing. We leverage our proprietary digital platform to provide efficient enrollment strategies through an effective combination of data, analytics, and tailored products. Multi-channel and targeted communications solutions increase consumer benefit knowledge and enhance engagement. Our talent team delivers data, analytics, and advice to business leaders so they can make better workforce decisions and align their business and people strategies. We support clients across the full employee lifecycle, including talent assessment and selection, compensation benchmarking, total rewards strategy optimization, workforce analytics and benchmarking, workforce resilience planning, talent integration in transaction situations, Corporate Governance, ESG consulting, and strategic employee communication. Wealth Solutions includes retirement consulting, pension administration, and investments consulting. Retirement consulting specializes in providing clients across the globe with strategic design consulting on their retirement programs, actuarial services, and risk management, including pension de-risking, governance, integrated pension administration and legal and compliance consulting. We also help organizations manage their balance sheet volatility. Retirement consulting and pension administration leverage Aon s pension expertise to deliver high-quality integrated retirement services. Our customized services include outsourcing, co-sourcing and in-sourcing options. Our partnership-driven model is powered by deep pension experience and enabled with smart technology. Our investments consulting team provides public and private companies and other institutions with advice on developing and maintaining investment programs across a broad range of plan types, including defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans, endowments and foundations. Our delegated investment solutions offer ongoing management of investment programs and fiduciary responsibilities either in a partial or full discretionary model for multiple asset owners. We partner with clients to deliver our scale and experience to help them effectively manage their investments, risk, and governance and potentially lower costs. We believe in the power of connecting participants to experts to make better informed and smarter decisions about their wealth. Revenue and Compensation Our business generates revenues primarily through commissions, compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies for services we provide to them, and fees from customers. Commissions and fees for brokerage services vary depending upon several factors, which may include the amount of premium, the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular services provided to a client, insurer, or reinsurer, and the capacity in which we act. Compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies includes: (1) fees for consulting and analytics services, and (2) fees and commissions for administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers and reinsurers. Fees from clients for advice and consulting services are dependent on the extent and value of the services we provide. Payment terms are consistent with current industry practices. 6 Funds Held on Behalf of Clients We typically hold funds on behalf of clients, including premiums received from clients and claims due to clients that are in transit to and from insurers. Certain funds held on behalf of clients are invested in interest-bearing premium trust accounts and can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect and remit cash. The principal is segregated and not available for general operating purposes, although we may earn interest on these accounts. Competition Our business operates in a highly competitive and fragmented environment. We compete with numerous other global insurance brokers and consulting companies, including, among others, Marsh McLennan Companies, Inc., Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, Arthur J Gallagher Company, Lockton Companies, Inc., as well as numerous other global, regional, and local firms in almost every area of our business. We also compete with insurance and reinsurance companies that directly market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents. Additionally, we compete with other businesses that do not fall into the categories above, including large financial institutions and independent consulting firms and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology, human resources, and financial services firms. Seasonality Due to buying patterns and delivery of certain products and services in the markets we serve, revenues recognized tend to be higher in the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. Licensing and Regulation Our business activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of countries in which we operate, including U.S. federal and state laws. See the Risk Factors section in Part I, Item 1A of this report for information regarding how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. and most other countries in which our operating subsidiaries conduct business may require individuals, entities, and related service providers to obtain a license from a government agency, including (but not limited to) licenses to operate as insurance producers, brokers, agents, consultants, reinsurance brokers, or managing general agents. Certain jurisdictions issue licenses only to resident entities or individuals. In such jurisdictions, if the Company has no licensed subsidiary, we may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction. Such arrangements are subject to an internal review and approval process. Our subsidiaries must comply with laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are enforced by the FCA in the U.K., by federal and state agencies in the U.S., and by various regulatory agencies and other supervisory authorities in other countries through the granting and revoking of licenses to do business, the licensing of agents, the monitoring of trade practices, policy form approval, limits on commission rates, and mandatory remuneration disclosure requirements. Insurance authorities in the U.K., U.S., and certain other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations generally require the segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Investment, securities, and futures licensing authorities also govern certain business activities. For example, in the U.S., we use Aon Securities LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Aon, and a U.S.-registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, member of FINRA and Securities Investor Protection Corporation, for investment banking, capital advisory services and other broker-dealer activities. Similar operations exist in other jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Further, pension and financial laws and regulations, including oversight and supervision by the FCA in the U.K., the SEC and the DOL in the U.S., and regulators in other countries govern certain of the retirement-related consulting services provided by Aon and its subsidiaries and affiliates. This includes Aon subsidiaries that provide investment advisory services regulated by various U.S. federal authorities including the SEC, DOL, and FINRA, as well as authorities on the state level. In addition, other services provided by Aon and its subsidiaries and affiliates, such as trustee services and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services, are subject in various jurisdictions to pension, investment, securities, and insurance laws and regulations, and supervision. 7 Clientele Our clients operate in many businesses and industries throughout the world. No one client accounted for more than 2% of our consolidated total revenues in 2023. Additionally, we place insurance with many insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of the tot al premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2023. Aon United, Our Culture, and Human Capital Strategy Our Culture Our culture is driven by our values committed as one firm to our purpose, united through trust and integrity as one inclusive, diverse team, and passionate about making our colleagues and clients successful. Our colleagues are the cornerstone of our success. Collaboration and innovation drive our culture, bringing the best of Aon to clients in a holistic and seamless manner. Our Aon United strategy defines how our colleagues work together to deliver value to clients, setting a new standard for client leadership. Aon United is brought to life through our common client value creation model which scales strategies from across the firm to bring the best of Aon to clients. Each year, Aon makes significant philanthropic contributions to various organizations, supports numerous colleague volunteer opportunities, and offers paid time off to volunteer. In 2023, we announced our 3x3 Plan to go further, faster and continue evolving with our clients and build the capability to deliver the full value of our firm over the next three years. Colleagues As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 50,000 employees and conducted our operations in more than 120 countries and sovereignties. Our colleagues diverse talents, expertise, and insights contribute to the success of both our firm and our clients, and we seek to attract, grow, and retain the best talent in the industry. Our Inclusive People Leadership strategy is a central part of our Aon United strategy and is a key enabler to realizing our aspirations and purpose as a firm. All our colleagues are called upon to be leaders in embracing and modeling our Aon United values and behaviors. Inclusive People Leadership at Aon is designed to ensure that all colleagues at every stage of their career journey are equipped and motivated to deliver on our purpose and able to achieve their full potential. Colleagues benefit from our Smart Working approach, which aims to create a healthy, productive, inclusive, and sustainable way of working, enabling colleagues to deliver their best work for clients from wherever they are best placed to do so. This strategy, which supports in person, hybrid, and virtual working, continues to be a source of positive feedback and strong engagement based on colleague surveys. Training and Development We invest significant resources to develop the talent needed to remain at the forefront of innovation and remain an attractive employer. Colleagues are invited to complete a broad spectrum of curricula to meet their career stage goals and developmental needs. We provide our colleagues what they need to learn, grow, and become the leaders our clients seek. From self-guided learning courses to advanced leadership programs, the curriculum is aligned to the Aon United strategy and Inclusive People Leader strategy. Our investment in technology and use of virtual and in-person based learning and development programs allows us to deliver targeted offerings designed to advance all colleagues development. Colleague Engagement and Retention Providing an engaging and rewarding colleague experience is a top priority for us and understanding colleagues feedback helps us to reach that goal. We use a variety of channels to facilitate open, on-going, and direct communication with colleagues. These channels include open forums and town halls with executives, colleague surveys, and engagement through our Business Resource Groups. Business Resource Groups are our independent, voluntary, non-profit associations that provide input, take action, and help identify opportunities for our firm to further commitments to Inclusion and Diversity (I D) and belonging. Our engagement survey process consists of frequent pulse surveys, as well as our annual all colleague support survey which enables us to understand how colleagues are engaging with their teams, the firm, and clients. This outreach effort allows us to gather insights more rapidly, take timely action to address feedback, and deliver on the needs of colleagues in real time ensuring colleagues feel more connected, more valued and more relevant. The pulse surveys for 2023 were focused on topics such as manager and leadership support, delivering on our Aon Story, colleague wellbeing, I D, talent acquisition and performance and rewards. Feedback from our workforce provides management with a better understanding of evolving colleague viewpoints, and ensures we are taking appropriate steps to drive colleague engagement and retention. For discussion of the risks related to the attraction and retention of senior management and other professional personnel, see the Risk Factors section in Part I, Item 1A of this report. 8 Rewards In addition to an inspired purpose and culture, we are proud to offer our colleagues a total rewards program that combines competitive pay, incentive opportunities, and benefits. Our compensation programs - including salary, recognition, cash, and equity incentives - are connected to our formal performance management, and career development approach. These programs serve to reward colleagues for their Aon United impact both in what they accomplish for clients, colleagues, and shareholders, how they achieve those results and how they deliver on our values. We maintain a global commitment to colleague wellbeing and play a key role in supporting colleagues across the physical, emotional, financial, and social spectrum. Our comprehensive benefit programs are competitive for the markets in which we operate and aligned with our values and culture. Our compensation philosophy aligns with our Aon United strategy and delivering long-term shareholder value creation. Our executive incentives are based on driving results, delivery of strategic initiatives, and leadership. Beginning in 2021, 20% of the short-term incentives for senior executives are based on quantifiable performance against firm-wide inclusion initiatives. Inclusion We believe that inclusive and diverse teams produce better insight, better solutions and, ultimately, the best outcomes for clients and our long-term success. We are focused on being a firm that is representative of the communities in which we operate. We achieve this by aligning inclusion actions to the following pillars: Recruitment, Education, Promotion, and Representation. We strongly believe that only when colleagues can be their authentic selves will they reach their full potential. Our commitment to inclusion starts from the top with our Board of Directors, including its Inclusion Wellbeing Sub-Committee. Our Global Inclusive Leadership Council is sponsored by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief People Officer. Regional Inclusive Leadership Councils and our Executive Leadership Teams are aligned to drive actions to increase the diversity of our teams. Our colleague-led Business Resource Groups also support execution and provide additional opportunities for colleagues to enhance our inclusive environment. As of December 31, 2023, our global workforce wa s 54% women and 46% men, and the Aon Executive Committee, which leads the firm was 58% women and 42% men. A t the manager level, 28% of senior leaders and 43% of managers with one or more direct report were women. New colleague hires for the year were 53% women and 47% men. Our U.S. workforce w as 25% racially or ethnically diverse, calculated as a percentage of colleagues that have voluntarily disclosed their race or ethnicity to Aon. At the manager level, 11% of U.S. senior leaders and 18% of U.S. managers with one or more direct report were racially or ethnically diverse. New colleague hires for the year in the U.S. were 34% racially or ethnically diverse. Apprenticeship Program Apprenticeship programs help build a talent pipeline of highly skilled and diverse professionals while providing apprentices with advanced education and work experience. By removing some of the traditional barriers to entry-level employment, as a firm we can contribute to local workforce development and cultivate talent while improving retention rates in these entry-level roles. As a founding member of seven apprentice networks within the U.S., we partner with companies and organizations to assist them in building their own programs through sharing best practices and learnings. Across these networks, we ha ve 206 organizations committed as of December 31, 2023. Our two-year Apprenticeship Program, which was implemented in the UK and U.S. in 2012 and 2017, respectively, serves as an alternate route into a permanent role that normally requires a specific degree or professional experience. We provide motivated, high-potential individuals with the required training (on the job and in the classroom), professional skills development, mentorship, and experiential learning to bridge the gap . 702 Aon apprentices have been hired since the inception of the program across the U.S. and U.K. Both programs are certified apprenticeship programs, by the Department of Labor in the U.S. and the Department of Education in the U.K. 9 Website Access to Reports and Other Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through our website (https://www.aon.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also posted on our website are the charters for our Audit, Organization and Compensation, Governance/Nominating, and Finance Committees, and Inclusion Wellbeing Sub-Committees, our Governance Guidelines, and our Code of Business Conduct. Within the time period required by the SEC and the NYSE, we will post on our website any amendment to or waiver of the Code of Business Conduct applicable to any executive officer or director. In addition, we may announce material information to investors and the marketplace using our investor relations website. While not all of the information that we post to such website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. Accordingly, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information that we share on our investor relations page on www.aon.com. The information provided on our website is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.