Item 1. Business Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Income Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity Aon plc Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES 2 PART I Item 1. Business OVERVIEW Aon plc (which may be referred to as Aon, the Company, we, us, or our ) is a leading global professional services firm that provides advice and solutions to clients focused on risk, retirement, and health, delivering distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions that are under-pinned by industry-leading data and analytics. Our strategy is to be the preeminent professional services firm in the world, focused on risk and people. Our clients are globally diversified and include all market segments (individuals through personal lines, mid-market companies, and large global companies) and almost every industry in over 120 countries and sovereignties. This diversification of our customer base helps provide us stability in different economic scenarios that could affect specific industries, customer segments, or geographies. We have continued to focus our portfolio on higher-margin, capital-light professional services businesses that have high recurring revenue streams and strong cash flow generation. We endeavor to make capital allocation decisions based upon return on invested capital ( ROIC ). PROPOSED REORGANIZATION On October 29, 2019, we filed with the Securities and Exchange (the SEC ) a preliminary proxy statement and announced our intention to move the jurisdiction of incorporation for our parent company from the United Kingdom ( U.K. ) to Ireland (the Reorganization ), as described in our definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on December 20, 2019. The move is expected to drive ongoing shareholder value creation through effective capital management that maximizes ROIC. The Reorganization received shareholder approval on February 4, 2020. We are required to make an application to the High Court of Justice of England and Wales to seek approval. This application is expected to be heard, and we currently anticipate the Reorganization will be completed, on March 31, 2020. This expected date depends on a number of factors. If the expected date is changed, we will give adequate notice of such change by issuing an announcement that will be made available on our website. We believe that remaining within the European Union ( E.U. ) single market will help the firm maintain a stable corporate structure and capital flexibility. Moving the jurisdiction of incorporation for our parent company will not result in any material change to our current business operations, reporting requirements, or listings. We will maintain our operating company headquarters in London, and our commitment to the U.K. and the London insurance market remain unchanged and unrivaled. We cannot assure that the Reorganization will be completed on the expected timeline or at all. For further discussion of the Reorganization, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Proposed Reorganization in Part II, Item 7 of this report. BUSINESS SEGMENT Beginning in the first quarter of 2017 and following the sale of our benefits administration and business process outsourcing business (the Divested Business ) on May 1, 2017, the Company led a set of initiatives designed to strengthen Aon and unite the firm with one portfolio of capability enabled by proprietary data and analytics and one operating model to deliver additional insight, connectivity, and efficiency. These initiatives reinforce Aon s ROIC decision-making process and emphasis on free cash flow. The Company is now operating as one segment that includes all of Aon s continuing operations, which, as a global professional services firm, provides advice and solutions to clients focused on risk, retirement, and health through five principal products and services: Commercial Risk Solutions, Reinsurance Solutions, Retirement Solutions, Health Solutions, and Data Analytic Services. Collectively, these products and service lines make up our one segment: Aon United. In addition, the Company is continuing to expand on Aon United growth initiatives through its New Ventures Group. In 2019 , our consolidated total revenue was $11,013 million . This includes $4,673 million in Commercial Risk Solutions, $1,686 million in Reinsurance Solutions, $1,817 million in Retirement Solutions, $1,667 million in Health Solutions, and $1,184 million in Data Analytic Services, before intercompany eliminations. Principal Products and Services Commercial Risk Solutions includes retail brokerage, cyber solutions, global risk consulting, and captives. In retail brokerage, our team of expert risk advisors applies a client-focused approach to commercial risk products and services that leverage Aon s global network of resources, industry-leading data and analytics, and specialized expertise. Cyber solutions is one of the industry s premier resources in cyber risk management. Our strategic focus extends to identify and protect critical digital assets supported by best-in-class transactional capabilities, enhanced coverage expertise, deep carrier relationships, and incident response expertise. Global risk consulting is a world-leading provider of risk consulting services supporting clients to better understand and manage their risk profile through identifying and quantifying the risks they face. We assist clients with the selection and implementation 3 of the appropriate risk transfer, risk retention, and risk mitigation solutions, and ensure the continuity of their operations through claims consulting. Captives is a leading global captive insurance solutions provider that manages over 1,100 insurance entities worldwide including captives, protected segregated and incorporated cell facilities, as well as entities that support insurance-linked securities and specialist insurance and reinsurance companies. Reinsurance Solutions includes treaty and facultative reinsurance and capital markets. Treaty reinsurance addresses underwriting and capital objectives on a portfolio level, allowing our clients to more effectively manage the combination of premium growth, return on capital, and rating agency interests. This includes the development of more competitive, innovative, and efficient risk transfer options. Facultative reinsurance empowers clients to better understand, manage, and transfer risk through innovative facultative solutions and provides the most efficient access to the global facultative reinsurance markets. Capital markets is a global investment bank with expertise in insurance-linked securities, capital raising, strategic advice, restructuring, recapitalization services, mergers and acquisitions. We partner with insurers, reinsurers, investment firms, banks, and corporations in the management of complex commercial issues through the provision of corporate finance advisory services, capital markets solutions, and innovative risk management products. Retirement Solutions includes core retirement, investment consulting, and human capital. Retirement consulting specializes in providing organizations across the globe with strategic design consulting on their retirement programs, actuarial services, and risk management, including pension de-risking, governance, integrated pension administration, and legal and compliance consulting. Investment consulting provides public and private companies and other institutions with advice on developing and maintaining investment programs across a broad range of plan types, including defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans, endowments, and foundations. Our delegated investment solutions offer ongoing management of investment programs and fiduciary responsibilities either in a partial or full discretionary model for multiple asset owners. It partners with clients to deliver our scale and experience to help them effectively manage their investments, risk, and governance and potentially lower costs. Human capital delivers advice and solutions that help clients accelerate business outcomes by improving the performance of their people including, assessment, optimized deployment, and the design, alignment, and benchmarking of compensation to business strategy and performance outcomes. Health Solutions includes health and benefits brokerage and health care exchanges. Health and benefits brokerage partners with employers to develop innovative, customized benefits strategies that help manage risk, drive engagement, and promote accountability. Our private health exchange solutions help employers transform how they sponsor, structure, and deliver health benefits by building and operating a cost effective alternative to traditional employee and retiree health care. We seek outcomes of reduced employer costs, risk, and volatility, alongside greater coverage and plan choices for individual participants. Data Analytic Services includes Affinity, Aon InPoint, and ReView. Affinity specializes in developing, marketing and administering customized insurance programs and specialty market solutions for Affinity organizations and their members or affiliates. Aon InPoint draws on the Global Risk Insight Platform, one of Aon s proprietary databases, and is dedicated to making insurers more competitive by providing data, analytics, engagement, and consulting services. ReView draws on another Aon proprietary database and broker market knowledge to provide advisory services, analysis, and benchmarking to help reinsurers more effectively meet the needs of cedents through the development of more competitive, innovative, and efficient risk transfer options. Revenue and Compensation Our business generates revenues primarily through commissions, compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies for services we provide to them, and fees from customers. Commissions and fees for brokerage services vary depending upon several factors, which may include the amount of premium, the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular services provided to a client, insurer, or reinsurer, and the capacity in which we act. Compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies includes: (1) fees for consulting and analytics services, and (2) fees and commissions for administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers and reinsurers. Fees from clients for advice and consulting services are dependent on the extent and value of the services we provide. Payment terms are consistent with current industry practices. Fiduciary Funds We typically hold funds on behalf of clients, including premiums received from clients and claims due to clients that are in transit to and from insurers. Certain funds held on behalf of clients are invested in interest-bearing premium trust accounts and can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect and remit cash. The principal is segregated and not available for general operating purposes, although we earn interest on these accounts. Competition Our business operates in a highly competitive and fragmented environment. We compete with other global insurance brokers and consulting companies, including Marsh McLennan Companies, Inc., Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, and 4 Arthur J Gallagher Company, as well as numerous specialist, regional, and local firms in almost every area of our business. We also compete with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents. Additionally, we compete with other businesses that do not fall into the categories above, including large financial institutions and independent consulting firms and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology, and financial services firms. Seasonality Due to buying patterns and delivery of certain products in the markets we serve, revenues recognized tend to be higher in the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. Licensing and Regulation Our business activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of countries in which we operate, including United States ( U.S. ) federal and state laws. See the Risk Factors section in Part I, Item 1A of this report for information regarding how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. Regulatory authorities in the countries and states in the U.S. in which our operating subsidiaries conduct business may require individual or company licenses to act as producers, brokers, agents, third-party administrators, managing general agents, reinsurance intermediaries, or adjusters. Under the laws of most countries and states, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting, renewing, and revoking producers , brokers , and agents licenses to transact business in the country or state. The operating terms may vary according to the licensing requirements of the particular country or state, which may require, among other things, that a firm operates in the country or state through a local corporation. In a few countries and states, licenses may be issued only to individual residents or locally owned business entities. In such cases, our subsidiaries either have such licenses or have arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the country or state. Our subsidiaries must comply with laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are enforced by the Financial Conduct Authority ( FCA ) in the U.K., by federal and state agencies in the U.S., and by various regulatory agencies and other supervisory authorities in other countries through the granting and revoking of licenses to do business, the licensing of agents, the monitoring of trade practices, policy form approval, limits on commission rates, and mandatory remuneration disclosure requirements. Insurance authorities in the U.K., U.S., and certain other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations generally require the segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Investment, securities, and futures licensing authorities also govern certain business activities. For example, in the U.S., we use Aon Securities, LLC, a U.S.-registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) and Securities Investor Protection Corporation, and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Aon, for capital management transaction and advisory services and other broker-dealer activities. Similar operations exist in other jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Further, pension and financial laws and regulations, including oversight and supervision by the FCA in the U.K., the SEC in the U.S., and regulators in other countries govern certain of the retirement-related consulting services provided by Aon and its subsidiaries and affiliates. This includes Aon subsidiaries that provide investment advisory services regulated by various U.S. federal authorities including the SEC and FINRA, as well as authorities on the state level. In addition, other services provided by Aon and its subsidiaries and affiliates, such as trustee services and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services, are subject in various jurisdictions to pension, investment, securities, and insurance laws and regulations, and supervision. Clientele Our clients operate in many businesses and industries throughout the world. No one client accounted for more than 1% of our consolidated total revenues in 2019 . Additionally, we place insurance with many insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2019 . Employees At December 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 50,000 employees and conducted our operations in more than 120 countries and sovereignties. 5 Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs, and expectations or predictions for the future, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements represent management s expectations or forecasts of future events. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, project, intend, plan, probably, potential, looking forward, continue, and other similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like could, may, might, should, will, and would. You can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in our business strategies and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; changes in the composition or level of our revenues; our cost structure and the outcome of cost-saving or restructuring initiatives; the outcome of contingencies; dividend policy; the expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; pension obligations; cash flow and liquidity; expected effective tax rate; future actions by regulators; and the impact of changes in accounting rules. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors, which may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports filed or furnished with the SEC, that could impact results include: general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we do business around the world, including the U.K. s withdrawal from the E.U.; changes in the competitive environment or damage to our reputation; fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenues and expenses; changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets; changes in the funding status of our various defined benefit pension plans and the impact of any increased pension funding resulting from those changes; the level of our debt limiting financial flexibility or increasing borrowing costs; rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds; volatility in our tax rate due to a variety of different factors including U.S. federal income tax reform; changes in estimates or assumptions on our financial statements; limits on our subsidiaries to make dividend and other payments to us; the impact of lawsuits and other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies arising from errors and omissions ( E O ) and other claims against us; the impact of, and potential challenges in complying with, legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly given the global scope of our businesses and the possibility of conflicting regulatory requirements across jurisdictions in which we do business; the impact of any investigations brought by regulatory authorities in the U.S., U.K., and other countries; the impact of any inquiries relating to compliance with anti-corruption laws, trade sanctions regimes, or other laws, rules, or regulations; failure to protect intellectual property rights or allegations that we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others; the effects of English law on our operating flexibility and the enforcement of judgments against us; the failure to retain and attract qualified personnel; international risks associated with our global operations; the effect of natural or man-made disasters; the potential of a system or network breach or disruption resulting in operational interruption or improper disclosure of personal data; our ability to develop and implement new technology; 6 damage to our reputation among clients, markets or third parties; the actions taken by third parties that perform aspects of our business operations and client services; the extent to which we manage certain risks created in connection with the various services, including fiduciary and investment consulting and other advisory services, among others, that we currently provide, or will provide in the future, to clients; our ability to continue, and the costs and risks associated with, growing, developing and integrating companies that we acquire or new products or lines of business; changes in commercial property and casualty markets, commercial premium rates or methods of compensation; changes in the health care system or our relationships with insurance carriers; our ability to implement initiatives intended to yield cost savings and the ability to achieve those cost savings; our risks and uncertainties in connection with the sale of the Divested Business; and our ability to realize the expected benefits from our restructuring plan. Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be inaccurate, and there are no guarantees about our performance. The factors identified above are not exhaustive. Aon and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. We are under no obligation (and expressly disclaim any obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information about factors that could materially affect Aon, including our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in the Risk Factors section in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Website Access to Reports and Other Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through our website (http://www.aon.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also posted on our website are the charters for our Audit, Compliance, Organization and Compensation, Governance/Nominating, and Finance Committees, our Governance Guidelines, and our Code of Business Conduct. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ), we will post on our website any amendment to or waiver of the Code of Business Conduct applicable to any executive officer or director. In addition, we may announce material information to investors and the marketplace using our investor relations website. While not all of the information that we post to such website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. Accordingly, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information that we share at our investor relations link located at the bottom of the page on www.aon.com. The information provided on our website is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.