Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 13 Item 2. Properties 14 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 14 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 28 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 28 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 59 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 59 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 61 Item 11. Executive Compensation 61 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 62 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 62 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 62 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 63 2 Table of Contents PART 1 ITEM 1 BUSINESS As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the Company, A. O. Smith, AOS, we, us, and our refer to A. O. Smith and its consolidated subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto under Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this annual report on Form 10-K. Our company is comprised of two reporting segments: North America and Rest of World. Both segments manufacture and market comprehensive lines of residential and commercial gas and electric water heaters, boilers, heat pumps, tanks and water treatment products. Both segments primarily manufacture and market in their respective regions of the world. Our Rest of World segment is primarily comprised of China, Europe and India. NORTH AMERICA Sales in our North America segment accounted for approximately 75 percent of our total sales in 2023. This segment serves residential and commercial end markets with a broad range of products including: Water heaters . Our residential and commercial water heaters, primarily come in sizes ranging from 40 to 80 gallon models, however, we also offer sizes as low as 2.5 gallon (point-of-use) and as high as 2,500 gallon products with varying efficiency ranges. We offer electric, natural gas and liquid propane tank-type models as well as tankless (gas and electric), heat pump and solar tank units. Typical applications for our water heaters include residences, restaurants, hotels, office buildings, laundries, car washes, schools and small businesses. Boilers. Our residential and commercial boilers range in size from 45,000 British Thermal Units (BTUs) to 6.0 million BTUs. Boilers are closed loop water heating systems used primarily for space heating or hydronic heating. Our boilers are primarily used in applications in commercial settings for hospitals, schools, hotels and other large commercial buildings while residential boilers are used in homes, apartments and condominiums. Water treatment products. With the acquisition of Aquasana, Inc. (Aquasana) in 2016 we entered the water treatment market. We expanded our product offerings and geographic footprint with the acquisitions of Hague Quality Water International (Hague) in 2017, Water-Right, Inc. (Water-Right) in 2019, Master Water Conditioning Corporation (Master Water) in 2021, Atlantic Filter Corporation (Atlantic Filter) in 2022 and Water Tec of Tucson, Inc (Water Tec) in 2023. Our water treatment products range from point-of-entry water softeners, solutions for problem well water, whole-home water filtration products and point-of-use carbon and reverse osmosis products. We also offer a comprehensive line of commercial water treatment and filtration products. Typical applications for our water treatment products include residences, restaurants, hotels and offices. Other. In our North America segment, we also manufacture expansion tanks, commercial solar water heating systems, swimming pool and spa heaters, related products and parts. A significant portion of our North America sales is derived from the replacement of existing products. We believe we are the largest manufacturer and marketer of water heaters in North America with a leading share in both the residential and commercial portions of the market. We expanded our presence in North America with our acquisition of Giant Factories, Inc., (Giant) a Canada-based manufacturer of residential and commercial water heaters, which we acquired in late 2021. In the commercial portions of the market for both water heating and space heating, we believe our comprehensive product lines and our high-efficiency products give us a competitive advantage. Our wholesale distribution channel, where we sell our products primarily under the A. O. Smith and State brands, includes more than 900 independent wholesale plumbing distributors serving residential and commercial end markets. We also sell our residential water heaters through the retail and maintenance, repair and operations (MRO) channels. In the retail channel, our customers include four of the six largest national hardware and home center chains, including a long-standing exclusive relationship with Lowe s where we sell A. O. Smith branded products. Our Lochinvar brand is one of the leading residential and commercial boiler brands in the U.S. Approximately 40 percent of Lochinvar branded sales consist of residential and commercial water heaters while the remaining 60 percent of Lochinvar branded sales consist primarily of boilers and related parts. Our commercial boiler distribution channel is primarily comprised of manufacturer representative firms with the remainder of our Lochinvar branded products being distributed through wholesale channels. We sell our A. O. Smith branded water treatment products through Lowe's and Amazon. Our Aquasana branded products are primarily sold directly to consumers through e-commerce channels. Our water softener products and problem well water solutions, which include the Hague, Water-Right, Master Water, Atlantic Filter, and Water Tec brands are sold through water quality dealers and contractors. Our water softener products are also sold through home center retail chains. 3 Table of Contents Our energy-efficient product offerings continue to be a sales driver for our business. Our condensing commercial water heaters and boilers continue to be an option for commercial customers looking for high-efficiency water and space heating with a short payback period through energy savings. We offer residential heat pumps, condensing tank-type and tankless water heaters in North America, as well as other higher efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy-efficient product offerings. We recently launched our newly designed ADAPT condensing gas tankless water heater and VERITUS air source commercial heat pump water heater to align with greenhouse gas emission reduction trends across the U.S. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, energy efficiency, maintenance costs and price. Our principal water heating and boiler competitors in North America include Rheem, Bradford White, Rinnai, Aerco and Navien. Numerous other manufacturing companies also compete. Our principal water treatment competitors in the U.S. are Culligan, Kinetico, Pentair, Franklin Electric and Ecowater as well as numerous regional assemblers. REST OF WORLD Sales in our Rest of World segment accounted for approximately 25 percent of our total sales in 2023, a majority of which was in China. We have operated in China for nearly 30 years. In that time, we have established A. O. Smith brand recognition in the residential and commercial markets. We manufacture and market residential water heater and water treatment products, primarily incorporating reverse osmosis technology, and commercial water treatment products. The Chinese water heater market is predominantly comprised of electric wall-hung, gas tankless, combi-boiler, heat pump and solar water heaters. We believe we are one of the market leaders of water heaters and reverse osmosis water treatment products to the residential market in China in dollar terms. We also design and market kitchen products (range hoods, cooktops, steam ovens, and dishwashers) in China. We sell our products in approximately 9,900 points of sale in China, of which approximately 4,600 are retail outlets in tier one through tier three cities and approximately 1,800 exclusively sell our products. We also sell our products through e-commerce channels. Our primary competitors in China in the water heater market segment are Haier, Midea, and Rinnai. Our principal competitors in the water treatment market are Angel, Midea, Truliva, and Xiaomi. In 2008, we established a sales office in India and began importing products specifically designed for India. We began manufacturing water heaters in India in 2010 and water treatment products in 2015. We continue to expand our product offerings and sales in this country, primarily through wholesale, e-commerce and retail channels. Our primary competitors in India are Racold, Bajaj and Havells in the water heater market and Eureka Forbes, Kent and Hindustan Unilever in the water treatment market. We also sell water heaters in the European and Middle and Far Eastern markets and water treatment products in Vietnam, all of which combined comprised less than 13 percent of total Rest of World sales in 2023. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials for our manufacturing operations, primarily consisting of steel, are generally available in adequate quantities. A portion of our customers are contractually obligated to accept price changes based on fluctuations in steel prices. There has been volatility in steel costs over the last several years. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT To improve our competitiveness by generating new products and processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate Technology Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, our Global Engineering Center in Nanjing, China, and our operating locations. Our total expenditures for research and development in 2023, 2022 and 2021 were $97.5 million, $89.0 million and $94.2 million, respectively. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We invest, own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. We monitor our intellectual property for infringements. Although we believe our trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets, and licenses to constitute a valuable asset in the aggregate, we do not regard our business as being materially dependent on any single trademark, trade name, patent, trade secret, license or any group of related such rights. Our trade name is important with respect to our products, particularly in China, India, and North America. 4 Table of Contents HUMAN CAPITAL We employed approximately 12,000 employees as of December 31, 2023 with approximately 7,000 in North America and 5,000 in Rest of World. A small portion of our workforce in the U.S. is represented by a labor union, while outside the U.S., we have employees in certain countries that are represented by employee representative organizations, such as an employee association, union, or works council. Our Guiding Principles and Values . The foundation of how we conduct business and interact with our employees is outlined in A. O. Smith Corporation s Guiding Principles and our Statement of Values. These principles and values help to shape how we hire, train and treat our employees, emphasizing teamwork and promoting diversity in seeking our objectives. We believe that our Guiding Principles and Values shape the critical elements of our effort to attract, retain and develop talent. Culture and Employee Engagement. We conduct a Global Employee Engagement Survey on a biannual basis. This third party managed survey measures employees level of engagement against external norms and provides us with actionable feedback that drives improvement priorities. Participation in our most recent survey in 2022 was 97 percent, which we believe reflects our employees desire to share their perspectives and a commitment to continuous improvement. Survey results help shape action plans to further improve our culture and we will conduct the survey again in 2024. Diversity and Inclusion. As reflected in our Guiding Principles, we strive to create a workplace where people from diverse backgrounds can thrive and achieve their fullest potential. A. O. Smith s commitment to this objective starts at the top with its Board of Directors, which is 44 percent diverse. A. O. Smith monitors the gender and racial composition of its workforce in the U.S. at various levels within the organization, and also tracks pay equity on an ongoing basis. Compensation and Benefits. We provide what we believe is a robust total compensation program designed to be market-competitive and internally equitable to attract, retain, motivate and reward a high-performance workforce. Regular internal and external analysis is performed to ensure this market alignment. In addition to salaries, these programs, which vary by country, can include annual performance-based bonuses, stock-based compensation awards, retirement plans with employee matching opportunities, health benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, and tuition assistance, among others. Training and Development. We provide all employees with a wide range of professional development experiences, both formal and informal, to help them achieve their full potential. All of our salaried employees are given formal development plans. Some of the formal development programs that employees have access to include early-career leadership development programs, front-line leadership development programs, continuous improvement skill-building programs, core process technology councils and tuition reimbursement for degree programs or trade schools. To encourage additional career development, in 2023, all our salaried employees worldwide had at least one career conversation with their manager. Globally, all office and professional employees also have formal performance reviews and development plans with a focus on learning by doing. We expect our managers to work closely with their employees to ensure performance feedback and to conduct development discussions on a regular basis. Safety. The safety of our people is always at the forefront of what we do. We provide safety training in our production facilities, designed to empower our employees with the knowledge and tools they need to make safe choices and mitigate risks. In addition to traditional training, we use standardized signage and visual management throughout our facilities. Since 1954, we have annually awarded the Lloyd B. Smith President's Safety Award, which acknowledges an A. O. Smith facility that demonstrates the most improvement over one year in the area of workplace safety. BACKLOG Due to the short-cycle nature of our businesses, our operations do not normally sustain significant backlogs. 5 Table of Contents GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Our operations, including the manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, advertising and sale of our products, are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. In the U.S., many of our products are regulated by the Department of Energy, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Federal Trade Commission. State and local governments, through laws, regulations, and building codes, also regulate our water heating and water treatment products. Whether at the federal, state, or local level, these laws are intended to improve energy efficiency and product safety, and protect public health and the environment. In recent years, a number of states and local authorities have proposed or implemented bans on gas-fired products in new construction in an effort to address greenhouse gas emissions. Similar laws and regulations have been adopted by government authorities in other countries in which we manufacture, distribute, and sell our products. We offer a complete line of water and hydronic heating products, including electric-powered water heaters and boilers, and we believe that any reduction in fossil fuel-powered products would be counterbalanced by a corresponding increase in demand for our non-fossil fuel powered products. We are confident that our continued emphasis on product design and innovation will keep us well positioned to deliver products demanded by customers, regardless of fuel source. In addition, our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws. We are subject to regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Health and Safety Administration and their counterpart state agencies. Compliance with government regulations and environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of our company. See Item 3. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We maintain a website with the address www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. We are committed to sound corporate governance and have documented our corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and Governance and the Investment Policy Committees of the Board of Directors and other corporate governance materials, may be viewed on the Company s website. Any waiver of or amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles would be posted on this website; to date there have been none. Copies of these documents will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are also committed to growing our business in a sustainable and socially responsible manner consistent with our Guiding Principles. This commitment has driven us to design, engineer and manufacture highly innovative and efficient products in an environmentally responsible manner that helps reduce energy consumption, conserve water and improve drinking water quality and public health. Consistent with this commitment, we issue our sustainability report biennially detailing our company s historic and current efforts. We issued our third report, the 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Report in December 2022, documenting our ESG activities over the past two years. This report details the positive impact of our highly efficient products, highlights our company s commitment to employees and the communities in which we operate, and reports on our progress toward our greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal of 10 percent by 2025. We have made significant progress toward our ESG emission reduction goal and prevented almost 500,000 metric tons of carbon emissions in 2021 through the sale of our high efficiency water heaters and boilers. Our scorecard reflecting our progress is available on our website. Our scorecard also provides information on our employee diversity, product stewardship, and recordable incident rate, among other items. We have also achieved WAVE water stewardship verification and achieved our fourth consecutive Energy Star Partner of the Year Award. Our ESG report and ESG scorecard are available on our website and not included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 Table of Contents