Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Item 2. Properties 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 13 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 27 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 28 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 58 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 58 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 Item 11. Executive Compensation 60 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 61 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 61 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 61 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 62 2 Table of Contents PART 1 ITEM 1 BUSINESS As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, references to the Company, A. O. Smith, AOS, we, us, and our refer to A. O. Smith and its consolidated subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this annual report on Form 10-K. Our company is comprised of two reporting segments: North America and Rest of World. Our Rest of World segment is primarily comprised of China, Europe and India. Both segments manufacture and market comprehensive lines of residential and commercial gas, heat pump and electric water heaters, boilers, tanks and water treatment products. Both segments primarily manufacture and market in their respective regions of the world. NORTH AMERICA We serve residential and commercial end markets in North America with a broad range of products including: Water heaters . Our residential and commercial water heaters come in sizes ranging from 2.5 gallon (point-of-use) models to 2,500 gallon products with varying efficiency ranges. We offer electric, natural gas and liquid propane tank-type models as well as tankless (gas and electric), heat pump and solar tank units. In 2021, we further expanded our market presence and product offerings with our acquisition of Giant Factories, Inc., (Giant) a Canada-based manufacturer of residential and commercial water heaters. Typical applications for our water heaters include residences, restaurants, hotels and motels, office buildings, laundries, car washes, schools and small businesses. Boilers. Our residential and commercial boilers range in size from 45,000 British Thermal Units (BTUs) to 6.0 million BTUs. Our boilers are primarily used in space heating applications for residences, hospitals, schools, hotels and other large commercial buildings. Water treatment products. With the acquisition of Aquasana, Inc. (Aquasana) in 2016 we entered the water treatment market. We expanded our product offerings with the acquisitions of Hague Quality Water International (Hague) in 2017, Water-Right, Inc. (Water-Right) in 2019 and Master Water Conditioning Corporation (Master Water) in 2021. Our water treatment products range from point-of-entry water softeners, solutions for problem well water, and whole-home water filtration products to on-the-go filtration bottles and point-of-use carbon and reverse osmosis products. We also offer a complete line of food and beverage filtration products. Typical applications for our water treatment products include residences, restaurants, hotels and offices. Other. In our North America segment, we also manufacture expansion tanks, commercial solar water heating systems, swimming pool and spa heaters, related products and parts. A significant portion of our North America sales is derived from the replacement of existing products. We believe we are the largest manufacturer and marketer of water heaters in North America with a leading share in both the residential and commercial portions of the market. In the commercial portions of the market for both water heating and space heating, we believe our comprehensive product lines and our high-efficiency products give us a competitive advantage. Our wholesale distribution channel, where we sell our products primarily under the A. O. Smith and State brands, includes more than 1,100 independent wholesale plumbing distributors serving residential and commercial end markets. We also sell our residential water heaters through the retail and maintenance, repair and operations (MRO) channels. In the retail channel, our customers include four of the six largest national hardware and home center chains, including a long-standing exclusive relationship with Lowe s where we sell A. O. Smith branded products. Our Lochinvar brand is one of the leading residential and commercial boiler brands in the U.S. Approximately 45 percent of Lochinvar branded sales consist of residential and commercial water heaters while the remaining 55 percent of Lochinvar branded sales consist primarily of boilers and related parts. Our commercial boiler distribution channel is primarily comprised of manufacturer representative firms, the remainder of our Lochinvar branded products are distributed through wholesale channels. We sell our A. O. Smith branded water treatment products through Lowe's, Amazon, and our wholesale distribution channels. Our Aquasana branded products are primarily sold directly to consumers through e-commerce as well as online retailers including Amazon and through other retail chains. Our water softener branded products and problem well water solutions, which include Hague, Water-Right, and Master Water are sold through water quality dealers. Our water softener products are also sold through home center retail chains. Our energy-efficient product offerings continue to be a sales driver for our business. Our condensing commercial water heaters and boilers continue to be an option for commercial customers looking for high-efficiency water and space heating 3 Table of Contents with a short payback period through energy savings. We offer residential heat pump, condensing tank-type and tankless water heaters in North America, as well as other higher efficiency water heating solutions to round out our energy-efficient product offerings. In addition, during 2021 we launched a commercial heat pump water heater to align with greenhouse gas emission reduction trends across the country. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted market segments based on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, energy efficiency, maintenance costs and price. Our principal water heating and boiler competitors in North America include Rheem, Bradford White, Rinnai, Aerco and Navien. Numerous other manufacturing companies also compete. Our principal water treatment competitors in the U.S. are Culligan, Kinetico, Pentair, Franklin Electric and Ecowater as well as numerous regional assemblers. REST OF WORLD We have operated in China for more than 25 years. In that time, we have established A. O. Smith brand recognition in the residential and commercial markets. The Chinese water heater market is predominantly comprised of electric wall-hung, gas tankless, combi-boiler, heat pump and solar water heaters. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of water heaters and reverse osmosis water treatment products to the residential market in China in dollar terms. We manufacture and market residential water treatment products, primarily incorporating reverse osmosis technology, and commercial water treatment products. We also design and market range hoods and cooktops in China. We sell our products in approximately 13,000 points of sale in China, approximately 5,800 are retail outlets in tier one and tier two cities of which over 2,000 exclusively sell our products. We also sell our products through e-commerce channels. In 2008, we established a sales office in India and began importing products specifically designed for India. We began manufacturing water heaters in India in 2010 and water treatment products in 2015. Our primary competitors in China in the water heater market segment are Haier and Midea, which are Chinese companies, as well as Rinnai. Our principal competitors in the water treatment market are Angel, Midea, Truliva, and Xiaomi. In India, we compete with Racold, Bajaj and Havells in the water heater market and Eureka Forbes, Kent and Hindustan Unilever in the water treatment market. In addition, we sell water heaters in the European and Middle Eastern markets and water treatment products in Hong Kong, Turkey and Vietnam, all of which combined comprised less than 11 percent of total Rest of World sales in 2021. RAW MATERIALS Raw materials for our manufacturing operations, primarily consisting of steel, are generally available in adequate quantities, however, the global health pandemic and disruptions in the commercial transportation network have stressed the availability of certain raw materials. There has been volatility in steel costs over the last several years, particularity in 2021 as the steel price index increased over 100 percent compared to the prior year. A portion of our customers have contractual pricing tied to a steel index. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT To improve our competitiveness by generating new products and processes, we conduct research and development at our Corporate Technology Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, our Global Engineering Center in Nanjing, China, and our operating locations. Our total expenditures for research and development in 2021, 2020 and 2019 were $94.2 million, $80.7 million and $87.9 million, respectively. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We own and use in our businesses various trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets and licenses. Although we believe our trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets, and licenses to constitute a valuable asset in the aggregate, we do not regard our business as being materially dependent on any single or group of related trademarks, trade names, patents, trade secrets, or licenses. Our trade name is important with respect to our products, particularly in China, India, and the U.S. HUMAN CAPITAL We employed approximately 13,700 employees as of December 31, 2021, primarily non-union. The foundation of how we conduct business and interact with our employees is outlined in the A. O. Smith Corporation Guiding Principles, which were refreshed in 2021, and our Statement of Values. These principles and values help to shape how we hire, train and treat our employees, emphasizing teamwork and promoting diversity in seeking our objectives. We believe that the critical elements of our effort to attract, retain and develop talent are employee engagement, talent development, a focus on employee safety, and market competitive compensation. 4 Table of Contents We conduct a Global Employee Engagement Survey on a biannual basis. This third-party-managed survey measures employees' level of engagement against external norms and provides us with actionable feedback that drives improvement priorities. Survey participation in 2020 was 96 percent, which we believe indicates our employees' willingness to share their perspectives and a commitment to continuous improvement. We will conduct the survey again in 2022. We provide all employees with a wide range of professional development experiences, both formal and informal, to help them achieve their full potential. Some of the formal development programs that employees have access to include early-career leadership development programs, front-line leadership development programs, continuous improvement skill-building programs, core process technology councils and tuition reimbursement for degree programs or trade schools. Globally, all office and professional employees have a formal performance review and development plans with a focus on learning by doing. It is expected that managers work closely with their employees to ensure performance feedback and development discussions take place on a regular basis. The safety of our people is always at the forefront of what we do. We provide safety training in our production facilities, designed to empower our employees with the knowledge and tools they need to make safe choices and mitigate risks. In addition to traditional training, we use standardized signage and visual management throughout our facilities. Since 1954, we have awarded annually the Lloyd B. Smith President's Safety Award, which acknowledges an A. O. Smith facility that demonstrates the most improvement over one year in the area of workplace safety. We provide what we believe is a robust total compensation program designed to be market-competitive and internally equitable to attract, retain, motivate and reward a high-performance workforce. Regular internal and external analysis is performed to ensure this market alignment. In addition to salaries, these programs, which vary by country, can include annual performance-based bonuses, stock-based compensation awards, retirement plans with employee matching opportunities, health benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, tuition assistance, among others. BACKLOG Due to the short-cycle nature of our businesses, none of our operations sustain significant backlogs. GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Our operations, including the manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution, advertising and sale of our products, are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. In the U.S., many of our products are regulated by the Department of Energy, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, and the Federal Trade Commission. State and local governments, through laws, regulations, and building codes, also regulate our water heating and water treatment products. Whether at the federal, state, or local level, these laws are intended to improve energy efficiency and product safety, and protect public health and the environment. Similar laws and regulations have been adopted by government authorities in other countries in which we manufacture, distribute, and sell our products. In addition, our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws. We are subject to regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Health and Safety Administration and their counterpart state agencies. Compliance with government regulations and environmental laws has not had and is not expected to have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of our company. See Item 3. 5 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION We maintain a website with the address www.aosmith.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than an investor s own internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. We are committed to sound corporate governance and have documented our corporate governance practices by adopting the A. O. Smith Corporate Governance Guidelines. The Corporate Governance Guidelines, Criteria for Selection of Directors, Financial Code of Ethics, the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles, as well as the charters for the Audit, Personnel and Compensation, Nominating and Governance and the Investment Policy Committees of the Board of Directors and other corporate governance materials, may be viewed on the Company s website. Any waiver of or amendments to the Financial Code of Conduct or the A. O. Smith Guiding Principles also would be posted on this website; to date there have been none. Copies of these documents will be sent to stockholders free of charge upon written request of the corporate secretary at the address shown on the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are also committed to growing our business in a sustainable and socially responsible manner consistent with our Guiding Principles. This commitment has driven us to design, engineer, and manufacture highly innovative and efficient products in an environmentally responsible manner that help reduce energy consumption, conserve water, and improve drinking water quality and public health. Consistent with this commitment, we issued our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Sustainability (CRS) report detailing our company s historical and current CRS efforts. Our CRS report is available on our website. The report is not included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 Table of Contents