ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 17 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 17 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 18 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 19 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 19 ITEM 6. RESERVED 20 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 21 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 51 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 53 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 116 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 117 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 117 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 118 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 118 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 118 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 118 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 118 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 119 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 119 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 120 SIGNATURES 123 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can generally be identified by words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, "future," goal, intend, may, outlook, plan, positioned, possible, potential, project, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations thereof, or the negative thereof, but these terms are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management s expectations and assumptions as of the date of this report and are not guarantees of future performance. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may relate to a number of matters, including expectations regarding revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, pension obligations, share repurchases or other statements regarding economic conditions or our business outlook; statements regarding plans, projects, strategies and objectives for our future operations, including our ability to win new projects and execute the projects in our backlog; and statements regarding our expectations with respect to pending legal claims or disputes. While forward-looking statements are made in good faith and based on assumptions, expectations and projections that management believes are reasonable based on currently available information, actual performance and financial results may differ materially from projections and estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors, including, without limitation: the duration and impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 global pandemic and efforts to contain its transmission, including the effect of these factors on our business, our customers, economic conditions and markets generally; changes in global or regional economic conditions, inflation, and supply and demand dynamics in the market segments we serve, including demand for technologies and projects to limit the impact of global climate change; changes in the financial markets that may affect the availability and terms on which we may obtain financing; the ability to implement price increases to offset cost increases; disruptions to our supply chain and related distribution delays and cost increases; risks associated with having extensive international operations, including political risks, risks associated with unanticipated government actions and risks of investing in developing markets; project delays, contract terminations, customer cancellations, or postponement of projects and sales; our ability to safely develop, operate, and manage costs of large-scale and technically complex projects; the future financial and operating performance of major customers, joint ventures, and equity affiliates; our ability to develop, implement, and operate new technologies and to market products produced utilizing new technologies; our ability to execute the projects in our backlog and refresh our pipeline of new projects; tariffs, economic sanctions and regulatory activities in jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates and joint ventures operate; the impact of environmental, tax, safety, or other legislation, as well as regulations and other public policy initiatives affecting our business and the business of our affiliates and related compliance requirements, including legislation, regulations, or policies intended to address global climate change; changes in tax rates and other changes in tax law; safety incidents relating to our operations; the timing, impact, and other uncertainties relating to acquisitions and divestitures, including our ability to integrate acquisitions and separate divested businesses, respectively; 3 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) risks relating to cybersecurity incidents, including risks from the interruption, failure or compromise of our information systems; catastrophic events, such as natural disasters and extreme weather events, public health crises, acts of war, including Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the ongoing civil war in Yemen, or terrorism; the impact on our business and customers of price fluctuations in oil and natural gas and disruptions in markets and the economy due to oil and natural gas price volatility; costs and outcomes of legal or regulatory proceedings and investigations; asset impairments due to economic conditions or specific events; significant fluctuations in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates from those currently anticipated; damage to facilities, pipelines or delivery systems, including those we own or operate for third parties; availability and cost of electric power, natural gas, and other raw materials; the success of productivity and operational improvement programs. In addition to the foregoing factors, forward-looking statements contained herein are qualified with respect to the risks disclosed elsewhere in this document, including in Item 1A, Risk Factors , Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk . Any of these factors, as well as those not currently anticipated by management, could cause our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in assumptions, beliefs, or expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business About Air Products Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940, provides essential industrial gases, related equipment, and applications expertise to customers around the world. We have a sustainability-driven two-pillar growth strategy that includes expansion and efficient operation of our core industrial gases business and execution of projects that provide world-scale clean hydrogen. We serve customers in dozens of industries, including refining, chemicals, metals, electronics, manufacturing, medical, and food. We also develop, engineer, build, own, and operate some of the world s largest industrial gas and carbon-capture projects, supplying clean hydrogen that will support global transportation, industrial markets, and the broader energy transition away from fossil fuels. We have built leading positions in several growth markets, such as hydrogen, helium, and liquefied natural gas ("LNG") process technology and equipment, and provide turbomachinery, membrane systems, and cryogenic containers globally. As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms we, our, us, the Company, "Air Products," or registrant include our controlled subsidiaries and affiliates. Except as otherwise noted, the description of our business below reflects our continuing operations. Refer to Note 5, Discontinued Operations , to the consolidated financial statements for activity associated with discontinued operations. During the fiscal year ended 30 September 2022 ( fiscal year 2022 ), we reported our continuing operations in five reporting segments under which we managed our operations, assessed performance, and reported earnings: Americas; Asia; Europe; Middle East and India; and Corporate and other. The discussion that follows is based on those operations. Refer to Note 23, Business Segment and Geographic Information , to the consolidated financial statements for additional details on our reportable business segments. Industrial Gases Business Our industrial gases business is organized and operated regionally. Our industrial gases business produces and sells atmospheric gases, such as oxygen, nitrogen, and argon; process gases, such as hydrogen, helium, carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), carbon monoxide, and syngas (a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide); and specialty gases. Atmospheric gases are produced through various air separation processes, of which cryogenic is the most prevalent, while process gases are produced by methods other than air separation. For example, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas are produced by steam methane reforming of natural gas and by the gasification of liquid and solid hydrocarbons. For the production of hydrogen, we purify byproduct sources obtained from the chemical and petrochemical industries. Today, we primarily produce hydrogen from hydrocarbons without carbon capture. Our newer energy transition projects are focused on producing clean hydrogen from hydrocarbons with carbon capture (known as blue hydrogen ) as well as from renewable energy (known as green hydrogen ). Helium is produced as a byproduct of gases extracted from underground reservoirs, primarily natural gas, but also CO 2 purified before resale. The industrial gases business also develops, builds, and operates equipment for the production or processing of gases, such as air separation units and non-cryogenic generators. The regional segments supply gases, related equipment, and applications in the relevant region to diversified customers in many industries, including those in refining, chemicals, metals, electronics, manufacturing, medical, and food. Hydrogen is used by refiners to facilitate the conversion of heavy crude feedstock and lower the sulfur content of gasoline and diesel fuels, as well as in the developing hydrogen-for-mobility markets. We have hydrogen fueling stations that support commercial markets as well as demonstration projects across the globe. The chemicals industry uses hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas as feedstocks in the production of many basic chemicals. The energy production industry uses nitrogen injection for enhanced recovery of oil and natural gas and oxygen for gasification. Oxygen is used in combustion and industrial heating applications, including in the steel, certain nonferrous metals, glass, and cement industries. Nitrogen applications are used in food processing for freezing and preserving flavor, and nitrogen is used for inerting in various fields, including the metals, chemical, and semiconductor industries. Helium is used in laboratories and healthcare for cooling and in other industries for pressurizing, purging, and lifting. Argon is used in the metals and other industries for its unique inerting, thermal conductivity, and other properties. Industrial gases are also used in welding and providing healthcare and are utilized in various manufacturing processes to make them more efficient and to optimize performance. 5 Table of Contents Industrial gases are generally produced at or near the point of use given the complexity and inefficiency with storing molecules at low temperatures. Helium, however, is generally sourced globally, at long distances from point of sale. As a result, we maintain an inventory of helium stored in our fleet of ISO containers as well as at the U.S. Bureau of Land Management underground storage facility in Amarillo, Texas, and our storage cavern near Beaumont, Texas. We distribute gases to our sale of gas customers through different supply modes depending on various factors including the customer's volume requirements and location. Our supply modes are as follows: Liquid Bulk Product is delivered in bulk in either liquid or gaseous form via tanker or tube trailer and stored, usually in its liquid state, in equipment that we typically design and install at the customer s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are usually governed by three- to five-year contracts. Packaged Gases Small quantities of product are delivered in either cylinders or dewars. We operate packaged gas businesses in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. In the United States, our packaged gas business sells products (principally helium) only for the electronics and magnetic resonance imaging industries. On-Site Gases Large quantities of hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, carbon monoxide, and syngas are provided to customers, principally in the energy production and refining, chemical, metals, and electronics industries worldwide, that require large volumes of gases and have relatively constant demand. Gases are produced and supplied by large facilities we construct or acquire on or near the customers facilities or by pipeline systems from centrally located production facilities. These sale of gas contracts are generally governed by 15- to 20-year contracts. We also deliver smaller quantities of product through small on-site plants (cryogenic or non-cryogenic generators), typically via a 10- to 15-year sale of gas contract. Electricity is the largest cost component in the production of atmospheric gases. Steam methane reformers utilize natural gas as the primary raw material and gasifiers use liquid and solid hydrocarbons as the principal raw material for the production of hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas. We mitigate electricity, natural gas, and hydrocarbon price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, and cost pass-through and tolling arrangements. During fiscal year 2022, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of power and natural gas. We obtain helium from a number of sources globally, including crude helium for purification from the U.S. Bureau of Land Management's helium reserve. The regional industrial gases segments also include our share of the results of several joint ventures accounted for under the equity method. Our share of our investees' net earnings is primarily presented net of income taxes within Equity affiliates income" on our consolidated income statements. The largest of these joint ventures operate in China, India, Italy, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, and Thailand. The carrying value of our equity method investments is reflected as "Investment in net assets of and advances to equity affiliates" on our consolidated balance sheets. Each of the regional industrial gases segments competes against three global industrial gas companies: Air Liquide S.A., Messer, and Linde plc, as well as regional competitors. Competition in industrial gases is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications. We derive a competitive advantage in locations where we have pipeline networks, which enable us to provide reliable and economic supply of products to our larger customers. Overall regional industrial gases sales constituted approximately 92%, 92%, and 94% of consolidated sales in fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Sales of atmospheric gases constituted approximately 43%, 47%, and 47% of consolidated sales in fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, while sales of tonnage hydrogen, syngas, and related products constituted approximately 28%, 22%, and 22% of consolidated sales in fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. 6 Table of Contents Industrial Gases Equipment We design and manufacture equipment for air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, natural gas liquefaction, and liquid helium and liquid hydrogen transport and storage. The Corporate and other segment includes activity related to the sale of cryogenic and gas processing equipment for air separation. The equipment is sold worldwide to customers in a variety of industries, including chemical and petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery and processing, and steel and primary metals processing. The Corporate and other segment also includes our LNG equipment business, our Gardner Cryogenics business fabricating helium and hydrogen transport and storage containers, and our Rotoflow business, which manufactures turboexpanders and other precision rotating equipment. Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents such as compressors are the principal raw materials in the manufacturing of equipment. Raw materials for individual projects typically are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Equipment is produced at our manufacturing sites with certain components being procured from subcontractors and vendors. Competition in the equipment business is based primarily on plant efficiency, service, technical know-how, and price, as well as schedule and plant performance guarantees. Sale of equipment constituted approximately 8%, 8%, and 6% of consolidated sales in fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. International Operations Through our subsidiaries, affiliates, and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method, we conduct business in approximately 50 countries outside the United States. Our international businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls, tariffs, trade sanctions, import and export controls, and other economic, political, and regulatory policies of local governments described in Item 1A, Risk Factors , below. We have majority or wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that operate in Canada and approximately 20 countries in Europe (including the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and the countries of the United Kingdom); approximately 10 countries and regions in Asia (including China, South Korea, and Taiwan); approximately 10 countries in Latin America (including Brazil and Chile); approximately five countries in the Middle East (including Saudi Arabia and Israel), and approximately five countries in Africa. We also own less-than-controlling interests in entities operating in Europe, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Financial information about our foreign operations and investments is included in Note 7, Equity Affiliates ; Note 21, Income Taxes ; and Note 23, Business Segment and Geographic Information , to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, below. Information about foreign currency translation is included under Foreign Currency in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Major Accounting Policies , and information on our exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 12, Financial Instruments , to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below, and in Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk, included under Item 7A, below. Technology Development We pursue a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and development, engineering, and commercial development processes. We conduct research and development principally in our laboratories located in the United States (Allentown, Pennsylvania), the United Kingdom (Basingstoke and Carrington), Spain (Barcelona), China (Shanghai), and Saudi Arabia (Dhahran). We also fund and cooperate in research and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertake research work funded by others, including the United States government. Development of technology for use within the Industrial Gases business focuses primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of industrial gases and new or improved applications for industrial gas products. During fiscal year 2022, we owned approximately 674 United States patents, approximately 3,245 foreign patents, and were a licensee under certain patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, we do not consider our business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses. 7 Table of Contents Environmental Regulation We are subject to various environmental laws, regulations, and public policies in the countries in which we have operations. Compliance with these measures often results in higher capital expenditures and costs. In the normal course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA," the federal Superfund law); Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"); and similar state and foreign environmental laws relating to the designation of certain sites for investigation or remediation. Our accounting policy for environmental expenditures is discussed in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Major Accounting Policies , and environmental loss contingencies are discussed in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below. Some of our operations are within jurisdictions that have or are developing regulatory regimes governing emissions of greenhouse gases ( GHG ), including CO 2 . These include existing coverage under the European Union Emission Trading System, the California Cap-and-Trade Program, China s Emission Trading Scheme and its nation-wide expansion, and South Korea s Emission Trading Scheme. In the Netherlands, a CO 2 emissions tax was enacted on 1 January 2021. In Canada, Alberta s Technology Innovation and Emission Reduction System went into effect 1 January 2020. In Ontario, Environment Climate Change Canada s Output Based Pricing System ( OBPS ) was replaced by the GHG Emissions Performance Standards ("EPS") program beginning 1 January 2022. In Singapore, the Carbon Pricing Tax Act was implemented effective 1 January 2019. In Taiwan, Greenhouse Gases Emissions Registration and Verification Management Act will be enforced beginning in 2023. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) requires mandatory reporting of GHG emissions and is regulating GHG emissions for new construction and major modifications to existing facilities. Some jurisdictions have various mechanisms to target the power sector to achieve emission reductions, which often result in higher power costs. Increased public concern may result in more international, U.S. federal, and/or regional requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHG emissions. Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs related to consumption of electric power, hydrogen production and application of our gasification technology. We believe we will be able to mitigate some of the increased costs through contractual terms, but the lack of definitive legislation or regulatory requirements prevents an accurate estimate of the long-term impact these measures will have on our operations. Any legislation that limits or taxes GHG emissions could negatively impact our growth, increase our operating costs, or reduce demand for certain of our products. Regulation of GHG may also produce new opportunities for us. We continue to develop technologies to help our facilities and our customers lower energy consumption, improve efficiency and lower emissions. We see significant opportunities for hydrogen for mobility and energy transition, carbon capture technologies, and gasification. We estimate that we spent approximately $10 million, $8 million, and $4 million in fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, on capital projects reflected in continuing operations to control pollution. Capital expenditures to control pollution are estimated to be approximately $11 million in both fiscal years 2023 and 2024. For additional information regarding environmental matters, refer to Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements. Sustainability Our Sustainability Report details our growth strategy and the role our employees play in achieving our goals. Through our "Grow Conserve Care" approach to sustainability, we are growing responsibly alongside our customers through sustainability-driven opportunities, conserving resources, and caring for our employees and communities. Our latest Sustainability Report is available at www.airproducts.com/company/sustainability/sustainability-report. The information posted on our website, including our Sustainability Report, is not incorporated by reference into, and does not form part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During fiscal 2022, we announced new sustainability goals, including a commitment to $15 billion in energy transition projects through 2027. We believe our higher purpose is to bring people together to collaborate and innovate solutions to the world s most significant energy and environmental sustainability challenges. We are living this commitment, putting sustainability in action through our major global projects that will support the energy transition. 8 Table of Contents Human Capital Management As of 30 September 2022, we had approximately 21,900 employees, of which over 90% were working full-time and 62% were located outside the United States. We have collective bargaining agreements with unions and works councils at certain locations that expire on various dates over the next four years. Approximately 17% of our total workforce is covered by such agreements. Overall, we have a corporate strategy supported by our leaders and enabled by a positive organizational culture. We believe our employees are our most valuable asset and are critical to our success as an organization. Our goal is to be the safest, most diverse, and most profitable industrial gas company in the world, providing excellent service to our customers. Integral to our success is the continued development of our 4S culture (Safety, Speed, Simplicity and Self-Confidence) and creating a work environment where our employees feel that they belong and matter. Our talent-related initiatives, including employee recruitment and development, diversity and inclusion, and compensation and benefit programs, focus on building and retaining the world-class talent needed to execute our two-pillar growth strategy and fulfill Air Products' higher purpose. Safety Safety is fundamental to who we are as a company. Safety is a shared value, and our employees commitment to safety is demonstrated in many ways every day. Safety is a critical component of everything we do, everywhere in the world. Our goal is to be the safest industrial gas company in the world. Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Our 2022 Sustainability Report sets forth our announced goals to further increase the percentage of women and U.S. minorities in professional and managerial roles and the recruitment and talent development strategies we have in place to ensure we meet these ambitions. By 2025, Air Products aims to achieve at least 28 percent female representation in the professional and managerial population globally, and at least 30 percent minority representation in that same population in the United States. We established these goals following analysis of our global employee representation metrics and future talent needs, as well as assessing industry benchmarks and peer companies. For more information on these initiatives and to access our most recent Equal Employment Opportunity EEO-1 Report, please refer to our Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging website at www.airproducts.com/company/diversity. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and does not form part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Compensation As detailed in our 2022 Sustainability Report, in order to create a diverse workplace, individuals must be compensated fairly and equitably. A work environment where employees know they belong and matter includes fair and equitable pay. Our pay practices apply equally to all employees irrespective of gender, race, religion, disability, age, or any other form of personal difference. We strive to pay competitively in local markets where we do business and compete for talent. We benchmark our compensation to ensure that we are keeping pace with the market to provide competitive pay and benefits. Seasonality Our businesses are not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent. Inventories We maintain inventory where required to facilitate the supply of products to customers on a reasonable delivery schedule. Inventory consists primarily of crude helium, industrial gas, and specialty gas inventories supplied to customers through liquid bulk and packaged gases supply modes. Customers We do not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated sales. We do have concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within each of these industries, we have several l