ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 20 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 21 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 22 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 23 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 25 ITEM 6. RESERVED 26 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 27 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 54 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 56 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 123 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 123 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 123 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 123 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 124 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 124 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 124 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 124 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 124 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 125 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 125 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 126 SIGNATURES 129 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can generally be identified by words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, "future," goal, intend, may, outlook, plan, positioned, possible, potential, project, should, target, will, would, and similar expressions or variations thereof, or the negative thereof, but these terms are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management s expectations and assumptions as of the date of this report and are not guarantees of future performance. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may relate to a number of matters, including expectations regarding revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, pension obligations, share repurchases or other statements regarding economic conditions or our business outlook; statements regarding capital expenditures and plans, projects, strategies and objectives for our future operations, including our ability to win new projects and execute the projects in our backlog; and statements regarding our expectations with respect to pending legal claims or disputes. While forward-looking statements are made in good faith and based on assumptions, expectations and projections that management believes are reasonable based on currently available information, actual performance and financial results may differ materially from projections and estimates expressed in the forward-looking statements because of many factors, including, without limitation: changes in global or regional economic conditions, inflation, and supply and demand dynamics in the market segments we serve, including demand for technologies and projects to limit the impact of global climate change; changes in the financial markets that may affect the availability and terms on which we may obtain financing; the ability to execute agreements with customers and implement price increases to offset cost increases; disruptions to our supply chain and related distribution delays and cost increases; risks associated with having extensive international operations, including political risks, risks associated with unanticipated government actions and risks of investing in developing markets; project delays, scope changes, cost escalations, contract terminations, customer cancellations, or postponement of projects and sales; our ability to safely develop, operate, and manage costs of large-scale and technically complex projects; the future financial and operating performance of major customers, joint ventures, and equity affiliates; our ability to develop, implement, and operate new technologies and to market products produced utilizing new technologies; our ability to execute the projects in our backlog and refresh our pipeline of new projects; tariffs, economic sanctions and regulatory activities in jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates and joint ventures operate; the impact of environmental, tax, safety, or other legislation, as well as regulations and other public policy initiatives affecting our business and the business of our affiliates and related compliance requirements, including legislation, regulations, or policies intended to address global climate change; changes in tax rates and other changes in tax law; safety incidents relating to our operations; the timing, impact, and other uncertainties relating to acquisitions, divestitures, and joint venture activities, as well as our ability to integrate acquisitions and separate divested businesses, respectively; risks relating to cybersecurity incidents, including risks from the interruption, failure or compromise of our information systems or those of our business partners or service providers; 3 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) catastrophic events, such as natural disasters and extreme weather events, pandemics and other public health crises, acts of war, including Russia's invasion of Ukraine and new and ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, or terrorism; the impact on our business and customers of price fluctuations in oil and natural gas and disruptions in markets and the economy due to oil and natural gas price volatility; costs and outcomes of legal or regulatory proceedings and investigations; asset impairments due to economic conditions or specific events; significant fluctuations in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates from those currently anticipated; damage to facilities, pipelines or delivery systems, including those we are constructing or that we own or operate for third parties; availability and cost of electric power, natural gas, and other raw materials; and the success of productivity and operational improvement programs. In addition to the foregoing factors, forward-looking statements contained herein are qualified with respect to the risks disclosed elsewhere in this document, including in Item 1A, Risk Factors, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Any of these factors, as well as those not currently anticipated by management, could cause our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in assumptions, beliefs, or expectations or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances upon which any such forward-looking statements are based. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms we, our, us, the Company, "Air Products," or registrant include controlled subsidiaries and affiliates of Air Products. Additional information about Air Products is available on our website at www.airproducts.com. References to our website within this report are inactive textual references only. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference into, and does not form part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Air Products trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "APD". All periodic and current reports, registration statements, proxy statements, and other filings that we are required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. All such reports filed during the period covered by this report were available on our website on the same day as filing. Additionally, these filings are available free of charge on the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. Notes to the consolidated financial statements that are referenced in the disclosures that follow can be found under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. About Air Products Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940, is a world-leading industrial gases company that has built a reputation for its innovative culture, operational excellence, and commitment to safety and the environment. Focused on serving energy, environmental, and emerging markets, we are committed to generating a cleaner future by offering products and services that enable our customers to improve their environmental performance, product quality, and productivity. With sustainability at its core, our two-pillar growth strategy includes the optimization and growth of our core industrial gases business while developing, engineering, building, owning, and operating some of the world s largest clean hydrogen projects that will advance the transition to low- and zero-carbon energy in the industrial and heavy-duty transportation sectors. Our regional industrial gases business provides essential gases, related equipment, and applications expertise to customers in dozens of industries, including refining, chemicals, metals, electronics, manufacturing, medical, and food. Through our sale of equipment businesses, we also provide turbomachinery, membrane systems, and cryogenic containers globally. We manage our operations, assess performance, and report earnings under five reportable segments: Americas, Asia, Europe, Middle East and India, and Corporate and other. The discussion that follows is based on these operations. Refer to Note 26, Business Segment and Geographic Information , to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Our Businesses Industrial Gases Business Our industrial gases business, which is organized and operated regionally in the Americas, Asia, Europe, and Middle East and India segments, produces and sells atmospheric gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, and argon; process gases such as hydrogen, helium, carbon dioxide ("CO 2 "), carbon monoxide, and syngas (a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide); and specialty gases. Overall regional industrial gases sales constituted over 90% of consolidated sales in fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, approximately half of which were attributable to atmospheric gases. Each of the regional industrial gases segments competes against three global industrial gas companies: Air Liquide S.A., Linde plc, and Messer Group GmbH, as well as regional competitors. Competition in industrial gases is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications. We derive a competitive advantage in locations where we have pipeline networks, which enable us to provide a reliable and economic supply of products to our larger customers. 5 Table of Contents Production Industrial gases are generally produced at or near the point of use given the complexity and inefficiency of storing molecules at low temperatures. The industrial gases business develops, builds, and operates equipment for the production or processing of gases. Atmospheric gases are produced through various air separation processes, of which cryogenic distillation is the most prevalent, while process gases are produced by methods other than air separation. To produce hydrogen, we purify byproduct sources obtained from the chemical and petrochemical industries. We have historically produced hydrogen from hydrocarbons exclusively without carbon capture (known as "gray hydrogen"); however, we are also investing in projects that are intended to create a reliable and consistent world-scale source of low-carbon hydrogen produced from hydrocarbons with carbon capture (known as blue hydrogen ) as well as carbon-free hydrogen produced from renewable energy (known as green hydrogen ). Electricity is the largest cost component in the production of atmospheric gases. To produce hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas, steam methane reformers use natural gas as the primary raw material, while gasifiers use liquid and solid hydrocarbons as the primary raw material. We mitigate electricity, natural gas, and hydrocarbon price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, cost pass-through provisions, and tolling arrangements. During fiscal year 2024, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of power and natural gas. Helium is produced as a byproduct of gases extracted from underground reservoirs, primarily natural gas as well as CO 2 purified before resale. Because helium is generally sourced globally at long distances from point of sale, we maintain an inventory of helium in our fleet of ISO containers as well as in underground storage facilities in Amarillo, Texas and Beaumont, Texas. Supply Modes We distribute gases to our industrial gas customers through different supply modes depending on various factors including the customer's volume requirements and location. Our supply modes are as follows: On-Site Gases Supply mode associated with customers, principally in the energy production and refining, chemical, metals, and electronics industries worldwide, that require large volumes of gases and have relatively constant demand. Gases are produced and supplied by large facilities we construct or acquire on or near the customers facilities or by pipeline systems from centrally located production facilities. These sale of gas contracts are generally governed by 15- to 20-year contracts. We also deliver smaller quantities of product through small on-site plants (cryogenic or non-cryogenic generators), typically via a 10- to 15-year sale of gas contract. The contracts within this supply mode generally contain fixed monthly charges and/or minimum purchase requirements with price escalation provisions that are typically based on external indices. Our on-site supply mode generates approximately half our total company sales. Merchant Gases Supply mode for liquid bulk and packaged gas products. Liquid bulk product is delivered in bulk in either liquid or gaseous form by tanker or tube trailer and stored, usually in its liquid state, in equipment that we typically design and install at the customer s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are usually governed by three- to five-year contracts. Packaged gas products are delivered in small quantities in either cylinders or dewars. We operate packaged gas businesses in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. We maintain inventory in locations that facilitate supply of products to customers on a reasonable delivery schedule. Inventory consists primarily of crude helium, specialty gases, and other industrial gases supplied via the merchant gases supply mode. 6 Table of Contents End Use The refining industry uses hydrogen to facilitate the conversion of heavy crude feedstock and lower the sulfur content of gasoline and diesel fuels. This produces cleaner transportation fuels that can be used with other equipment, particularly in the developing hydrogen-for-mobility markets, to significantly reduce emissions that contribute to climate change. Many other industries that already benefit from hydrogen s unique properties to improve quality, optimize performance, and reduce costs are also looking to hydrogen as a fuel that can help decarbonize their manufacturing processes. We have hydrogen fueling stations that support commercial markets as well as demonstration projects across the globe. The chemicals industry uses hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas as feedstocks in the production of many basic chemicals. The energy production industry uses nitrogen injection for enhanced recovery of oil and natural gas and oxygen for gasification. Oxygen is used in combustion and industrial heating applications, including in the steel, certain nonferrous metals, glass, and cement industries. Nitrogen applications are used in food processing for freezing and preserving flavor, and nitrogen is used for inerting in various fields, including the metals, chemical, and semiconductor industries. Helium is used in laboratories and healthcare for cooling and in other industries for pressurizing, purging, and lifting. Argon is used in the metals and other industries for its unique inerting, thermal conductivity, and other properties. Industrial gases are also used in welding and providing healthcare and are utilized in various manufacturing processes to make them more efficient and to optimize performance. Industrial Gases Equipment We design and manufacture equipment for air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, and liquid helium and liquid hydrogen transport and storage. The Corporate and other segment includes activity related to the sale of cryogenic and gas processing equipment for air separation. The equipment is sold worldwide to customers in a variety of industries, including chemical and petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery and processing, and steel and primary metals processing. The Corporate and other segment also includes the results of our Rotoflow business, which manufactures turboexpanders and other precision rotating equipment, and our Gardner Cryogenics business, which fabricates helium and hydrogen transport and storage containers. Additionally, through the end of fiscal year 2024, our Corporate and other segment included our liquefied natural gas ("LNG") process technology and equipment business, which was sold to Honeywell International Inc. on 30 September 2024. Refer to Note 4, Gain on Sale of Business , to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the sale. Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents such as compressors are the principal raw materials in the manufacturing of equipment. Raw materials for individual projects typically are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Equipment is produced at our manufacturing sites with certain components procured from subcontractors and vendors. Competition in the equipment business is based primarily on plant efficiency and technological performance, service, technical know-how, and price, as well as schedule and plant performance guarantees. Our sale of equipment supply mode constituted less than 10% of consolidated sales in fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022. Customers We do not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated sales. We do have concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within each of these industries, we have several large-volume customers with long-term contracts. A negative trend affecting one of these industries, or the loss of one of these major customers, although not material to our consolidated sales, could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Seasonality Our businesses are not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent. Governmental Contracts Our business is not subject to a government entity s renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts that would be material to our business as a whole. 7 Table of Contents Equity Affiliates Our reporting segments include our share of the results of joint ventures accounted for under the equity method. Our share of our investees' net earnings is primarily presented net of income taxes within Equity affiliates income" on our consolidated income statements. The carrying value of our equity method investments is reflected as "Investment in net assets of and advances to equity affiliates" on our consolidated balance sheets. Substantially all our equity method investments are in foreign industrial gas producers, the largest of which operate in Algeria, China, India, Italy, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, and Thailand. For additional information regarding these investments, refer to Note 10, Equity Affiliates , to the consolidated financial statements. International Operations Through our subsidiaries, affiliates, and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method, we conduct business in approximately 50 countries and regions outside the United States. Our international businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls, tariffs, trade sanctions, import and export controls, and other economic, political, and regulatory policies of local governments described in Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have controlling interests in foreign subsidiaries that operate in Canada and approximately 10 countries in Latin America (primarily Chile and Brazil); approximately 10 countries and regions in Asia (primarily China, South Korea, and Taiwan); approximately 25 countries in the Europe and Africa region (primarily the Netherlands, the countries of the United Kingdom, and Spain); and approximately five countries in the Middle East, primarily Saudi Arabia. As discussed under "Equity Affiliates" above, we also own non-controlling interests in entities operating in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East. Financial information about our foreign operations and investments is included in Note 10, Equity Affiliates ; Note 24, Income Taxes ; and Note 26, Business Segment and Geographic Information , to the consolidated financial statements. Information about foreign currency translation is included under Foreign Currency in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Major Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements. Information about our exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 15, Financial Instruments , to the consolidated financial statements, and in Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk included under Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Technology Development We pursue a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and development, engineering, and commercial development processes. We conduct research and development principally in our laboratories located in the United States (Allentown, Pennsylvania), the United Kingdom (Basingstoke and Carrington), Spain (Barcelona), China (Shanghai), and Saudi Arabia (Dhahran). We also fund and cooperate in research and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertake research work funded by others, including the United States government. Development of technology for use within the Industrial Gases business focuses primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of industrial gases and new or improved applications for industrial gas products. During fiscal year 2024, we owned approximately 600 United States patents, approximately 3,200 foreign patents, and were a licensee under certain patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, we do not consider our business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses. 8 Table of Contents Environmental Regulation We are subject to various environmental laws, regulations, and public policies in the countries in which we have operations. Compliance with these measures often results in higher capital expenditures and costs. In the normal course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA," the federal Superfund law); Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"); and similar state and foreign environmental laws relating to the designation of certain sites for investigation or remediation. Our accounting policy for environmental expenditures is discussed in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Major Accounting Policies , and environmental loss contingencies are discussed in Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements. Some of our operations are within jurisdictions that have or are developing regulatory regimes governing emissions of greenhouse gases ( GHG ), including CO 2 . These include existing coverage under the European Union Emission Trading System, the California Cap-and-Trade Program, China s Emission Trading Scheme and its nation-wide expansion, and South Korea s Emission Trading Scheme. In the Netherlands, a CO 2 emissions tax was enacted on 1 January 2021. In Canada, Alberta s Technology Innovation and Emission Reduction System went into effect 1 January 2020. In Ontario, Environment Climate Change Canada s Output Based Pricing System was replaced by the GHG Emissions Performance Standards program beginning 1 January 2022. In Singapore, the Carbon Pricing Tax Act was implemented effective 1 January 2019. In Taiwan, enforcement of the Climate Change Response Act began in 2023 and a carbon fee was implemented effective 29 August 2024. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency requires mandatory reporting of GHG emissions and is regulating GHG emissions for new construction and major modifications to existing facilities. The European Union has issued the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive as well as the Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive, and California has enacted the Climate Corporate Data Accountability Act and the Climate Related Financial Risk Act that will require reporting and third-party assurance of GHG emissions information for certain entities. In March 2024, the SEC issued final rules for "The Enhancement and Standardization of Climate-Related Disclosures for Investors, which would have required certain climate-related disclosures in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. In April 2024, the SEC stayed the effectiveness of the final rules pending the outcome of certain legal challenges. Furthermore, some jurisdictions have various mechanisms to target the power sector to achieve emission reductions, which often result in higher power costs. Increased public concern may result in more international, U.S. federal, and/or regional requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHG emissions. Although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs related to consumption of electric power, hydrogen production and application of our gasification technology. We will be able to mitigate costs related to the consumption of electric power through the use of renewable electricity and some of the other increased costs through contractual terms. However, the lack of definitive legislation or regulatory requirements prevents an accurate estimate of the long-term impact these measures will have on our operations. Any legislation that limits or taxes GHG emissions could negatively impact our growth, increase our operating costs, or reduce demand for certain of our products. Regulation of GHG may also produce new opportunities for us. We continue to develop technologies to help our facilities and our customers lower energy consumption, improve efficiency, and lower emissions. We see significant opportunities for hydrogen for mobility, low carbon intensity hydrogen production supporting the global energy transition, utilization of carbon capture technologies, including subsequent CO 2 product use or sequestration, and gasification. Expenditures for capital projects intended to control pollution from existing operating facilities as required under current environmental regulations were not material in fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022. We do not expect material expenditures for these projects in fiscal year 2025. For additional information regarding environmental matters, refer to Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements. Sustainability Sustainability is at the core of our higher purpose to bring people together to collaborate and innovate solutions to the world s most significant energy and environmental sustainability challenges. Our low- and zero-carbon hydrogen and other first mover projects demonstrate our commitment to making investments that will make a meaningful difference on climate issues, allowing us to support our customers sustainability journeys, conserve resources, and care for our employees and communities. Our Sustainability Report details our strategy and the role our employees play in achieving our goals. Our latest Sustainability Report is available at www.airproducts.com/company/sustainability/sustainability-report. 9 Table of Contents Human Capital Management As of 30 September 2024, we had approximately 23,000 employees, of which over 95% were working full-time and approximately 75% were located outside the United States. We have collective bargaining agreements with unions and works councils at certain locations that expire on various dates over the next four years. Under 20% of our total workforce is covered by such agreements. Overall, we have a corporate strategy supported by our leaders and enabled by a positive organizational culture. We believe our employees are our most valuable asset and are critical to our organization'