Item 1. Business 13 Item 1A. Risk Factors 33 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 59 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 59 Item 2. Properties 62 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 62 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 62 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 63 Item 6. [Reserved] 65 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 66 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 122 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 131 Item 8A. Unaudited Supplemental Presentation of Statements of Financial Condition 252 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 256 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 256 Item 9B. Other Information 257 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 257 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 258 Item 11. Executive Compensation 258 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 258 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 258 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 258 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 259 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 274 SIGNATURES 3 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report may contain forward-looking statements that are within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). These statements include, but are not limited to, discussions related to Apollo s expectations regarding the performance of its business, its liquidity and capital resources and the other non-historical statements in the discussion and analysis. These forward-looking statements are based on management s beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used in this report, the words believe, anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, target or future or conditional verbs, such as will, should, could, or may, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct. These statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including risks relating to inflation, interest rate fluctuations and market conditions generally, the impact of energy market dislocation, our ability to manage our growth, our ability to operate in highly competitive environments, the performance of the funds we manage, our ability to raise new funds, the variability of our revenues, earnings and cash flow, the accuracy of management s assumptions and estimates, our dependence on certain key personnel, our use of leverage to finance our businesses and investments by the funds we manage, Athene s ability to maintain or improve financial strength ratings, the impact of Athene s reinsurers failing to meet their assumed obligations, Athene s ability to manage its business in a highly regulated industry, changes in our regulatory environment and tax status, and litigation risks, among others. We believe these factors include but are not limited to those described under the section entitled