Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 50 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 50 Part II 51 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 51 Item 6. [Reserved] 52 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 53 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 73 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 118 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 118 Item 9B. Other Information 118 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdiction s that Prevent Inspections 118 Part III 119 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 119 Item 11. Executive Compensation 119 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owner and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 119 Item 13. Certain Relationship and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 120 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 120 Part IV 121 Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 121 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 Signatures 125 2 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include statements about: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, and operating expenses, and our ability to achieve or maintain future profitability; the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity needs; the demand for our AppLovin Software Platform and AppLovin Apps; our ability to attract and retain business clients and users; our ability to develop new products, features, and enhancements for our AppLovin Core Technologies and AppLovin Software Platform and to launch or acquire new AppLovin Apps and successfully monetize them; our ability to compete with existing and new competitors in existing and new markets and offerings; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate companies and assets and to expand and diversify our operations through strategic acquisitions and partnerships; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our AppLovin Core Technologies, AppLovin Software Platform, and AppLovin Apps; our expectations regarding the effects of existing and developing laws and regulations, including with respect to taxation and privacy and data protection; our ability to manage risk associated with our business; our expectations regarding new and evolving markets; our ability to develop and protect our brand; our expectations and management of future growth; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; our ability to attract and retain employees and key personnel; our integration plans following our acquisition of MoPub; our integration plans and performance expectations for, and the expected timing for the closing of, our acquisition of Wurl; our expectations regarding our share repurchase program; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; and the increased expenses associated with being a public company. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Moreover, the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual 3 Table of Contents Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, partnerships, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures, or investments we may make. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Part I Item 1. Business Our mission is to grow the mobile app ecosystem by enabling the success of mobile app developers. Our software solutions provide advanced tools for mobile app developers to grow their businesses by automating and optimizing the marketing and monetization of their apps. Our software, coupled with our deep industry knowledge and expertise, has allowed us to rapidly scale a successful and diversified portfolio of owned mobile apps. We have also accelerated our market penetration through an active acquisition and partnership strategy. Our scaled and integrated business model sits at the nexus of the mobile app ecosystem, which creates a durable competitive advantage that has fueled our clients success and our strong growth. Over the past two decades, mobile apps have become integral to our lives. Mobile apps offer a wide array of applications, such as allowing users to seamlessly share ideas, make purchases, monitor health, and access entertainment. Growth of the mobile app ecosystem benefits mobile app users, but makes it harder for mobile app developers, and particularly indie developers, to scale and succeed in a crowded market. Most developers lack access to the marketing, monetization, and data analytics tools required to stand out among millions of competing mobile apps or attract sufficient numbers of mobile app users to create and sustain a successful long-term business. The marketing and monetization challenges faced by mobile app developers are particularly acute for developers of mobile games, which is one of the largest and fastest-growing segments within the mobile app ecosystem. AppLovin is critical to the success of mobile app developers, in particular mobile game developers, solving key marketing and monetization challenges. Through our technologies and scaled distribution, developers are able to manage, optimize, and analyze their marketing investments, and improve the monetization of their apps. The key elements of our solutions are delivered through the AppLovin Core Technologies and AppLovin Software Platform: AppLovin Core Technologies : Our foundational technology infrastructure which powers our Software Platform and, in turn, our Apps. Our Core Technologies consist of our AXON machine-learning recommendation engine, our App Graph, and our elastic cloud infrastructure. Our App Graph stores and manages anonymized data from hundreds of millions of mobile devices we reach every day, which our AXON engine then leverages to better predict and match users to relevant advertising content. AppLovin Software Platform : A comprehensive suite of tools for developers to get their mobile apps discovered and downloaded by the right users, optimize return on marketing spend, and maximize monetization of engagement. Our Software Platform is comprised of three solutions: AppDiscovery, our marketing software solution, is the cornerstone of our Software Platform, augmented by our rapidly growing MAX monetization solution. AppDiscovery is powered by AXON and provides the technology to match advertiser demand with publisher supply through auctions at vast scale and microsecond- level speeds. Adjust is our SaaS mobile marketing platform which allows marketers to make smarter decisions through measurement, attribution, and fraud prevention. MAX utilizes an advanced in-app bidding technology that optimizes the value of a developer s advertising inventory by running a real-time competitive auction, driving more competition, and higher returns for publishers. In 2018, given an opportunity to scale our own apps using our Software Platform, insights, and expertise in the mobile app ecosystem, we launched our first-party content strategy, AppLovin Apps. Today, our Apps consist of a globally diversified portfolio of over 350 free-to-play mobile games across five genres, run by nineteen studios including studios that we own (Owned Studios) and others that we partner with (Partner Studios). Our Apps provide data and insights as users play games, thus improving our App Graph and AXON recommendation engine. Our studios generally focus on the 4 Table of Contents development of easy to learn and play games, which appeal to a broad range of demographics, but also develop several games for other genres. The combination of our Core Technologies, Software Platform, and Apps forms a strategic flywheel that drives growth across our business and furthers our competitive advantages. As more developers use our Software Platform to market and monetize their mobile apps, we gain access to more users and more user engagement further strengthening our scaled distribution. As our distribution grows, we gain better insights for our App Graph and AXON recommendation engine, which then further enhances our Software Platform. This continuously improving flywheel helps developers that use our Software Platform to create and sustain successful businesses, growing both our own business and the mobile app ecosystem. We accelerate our capabilities and enhance our strategic position in the mobile app ecosystem by actively pursuing acquisitions and partnerships for new technologies and apps. Insights that we derive from our strategic position and flywheel allow us to proactively identify attractive acquisition and partnership opportunities across the mobile app ecosystem. From the beginning of 2018 through December 31, 2021, we have invested over $2.5 billion across 27 strategic acquisitions and partnerships with app studios, games, and software platforms. In the case of new apps, we are able to deploy our Software Platform and expertise to accelerate revenue growth, enabling us to target strong returns on investment. Strategic acquisitions and partnerships will continue to be a part of our growth strategy going forward. How We Grow the Mobile App Ecosystem We have built and invested in our Core Technologies and Software Platform, which expand the mobile app ecosystem by solving key developer growth challenges. We deliver value to mobile app developers by helping scale their businesses and maximize their revenue through our marketing and monetization technologies and expertise. Our Core Technologies and Software Platform combine marketing, monetization, and analytics into a single unified technology stack. AppLovin s Integrated Approach AppLovin Core Technologies Our Core Technologies are our foundational technology infrastructure, which powers our Software Platform and, in turn, our Apps. Our Core Technologies consist of our AXON machine-learning recommendation engine, our App Graph data management layer, and our elastic cloud infrastructure. Our Core Technologies catalogue and consolidate interactions every day into our proprietary App Graph. AXON receives information from our App Graph and uses its machine-learning algorithms to match each user to relevant advertising content, driving better engagement and monetization. Our flexible, robust cloud infrastructure is the backbone of our Core Technologies. This proprietary system allows us to operate at massive scale and process significant data while maintaining a high degree of flexibility, so that we may keep pace with the ever-evolving needs of our customers. Our globally distributed data infrastructure ensures we are able to connect with devices worldwide and process aggregate user activity across our Software Platform. AppLovin Software Platform Our Software Platform provides a comprehensive suite of tools for developers to grow their businesses by automating and optimizing the marketing and monetization of their apps. This suite is made up of three key solutions: AppDiscovery is our marketing software solution, which matches advertiser demand with publisher supply through auctions at vast scale and microsecond-level speeds. AppDiscovery is powered by our AXON machine- 5 Table of Contents learning recommendation engine with predictive algorithms that enable developers to match their apps to users that are more likely to download them . Adjust is an analytics platform that helps marketers grow their mobile apps with solutions for measuring and optimizing campaigns and protecting user data. Adjust powers thousands of apps with built-in intelligence and automation, backed by responsive global customer support. MAX is our in-app bidding software that optimizes the value of an app s advertising inventory by running a real-time competitive auction, driving more competition and higher returns for publishers. Many developers that integrate MAX have experienced a measurable increase in their average revenue per daily active user over traditional monetization tools and save countless hours because they are able to automate manual monetization work through its advanced feature set. When deployed together, our Software Platform helps developers better reach and monetize a more precisely targeted and valuable user base. Our Software Platform is delivered through an integrated and seamless user interface, allowing developers to accelerate their revenue opportunities, reduce the time they spend on marketing and monetization, and focus on what they do best developing apps. AppLovin Apps Our Apps consist of a globally diversified portfolio of over 350 free-to-play mobile games run by nineteen studios with a deep bench of talented developers. Our diversified portfolio covers five gaming genres, the most frequent of which is casual games, and appeals to a broad global audience across different ages, genders, and locations. Our Owned Studios and Partner Studios utilize our Software Platform to market and monetize our Apps. When using our Software Platform, our Apps have an economic advantage, which benefits our business as a whole. The strategy of our studios is to allow developers to focus on creating great Apps, while leveraging our Software Platform and expertise to unlock the potential of those Apps. Our Strategic Flywheel The mutually reinforcing combination of our Software Platform s scaled distribution, our App s first- party content, and our Core Technologies recommendation engine creates a powerful flywheel effect that enhances each component and importantly improves our overall strategic position and capabilities. As our Software Platform improves and is able to deliver more effective ads to more relevant users, more developers use and integrate their apps with our Software Platform, growing our scaled distribution. This grows the number of users on and level of engagement with our Apps and third-party apps. With a larger number of users engaged with our Software Platform and our Apps, our App Graph gains more insights and data. The enhanced App Graph feeds our Core Technologies, including our AXON machine-learning recommendation engine, improving its insights and matching capabilities. As the insights generated by AXON improve, the effectiveness of our Software Platform is enhanced in real-time. Improvements to our Software Platform lead to more developer demand, restarting the virtuous cycle of our strategic flywheel. Our Software Platform benefits from more apps and users from both our Apps and those of third- party developers. Through more volume and strong underlying software, our Software Platform can better match and price the supply of advertising inventory and demand from advertisers, helping users discover the apps they love and delivering better returns for developers. Apps whether third party or our own benefit from the improved marketing and monetization capabilities of our Software Platform, driving growth in users and revenue. With greater scale and resources, developers can reinvest to create new apps, improve existing apps, and further invest in user acquisition, thereby growing the overall mobile app ecosystem. We derive highly strategic insights from our flywheel. As the largest user of our Software Platform, our Apps benefit from the expertise and cost savings of our Software Platform, leading to greater returns on user acquisition spend. This allows our Apps to make significant investments in user acquisition, giving us further insights into the effectiveness of our tools and monetization strategies across the ecosystem. 6 Table of Contents Our Strategic Acquisitions and Partnerships We accelerate our technical capabilities, strategic positioning, and growth through strategic acquisitions and partnerships. We have developed a proven and repeatable process for acquiring highly sophisticated technology that enhances our Core Technologies and Software Platform and for selecting and scaling our Apps global portfolio. Our business sits at the nexus of the mobile app ecosystem, which gives us deep insights into potential acquisitions and partnerships. Additionally, as a first-hand participant in the mobile app ecosystem, we have developed a strong relationship with other participants, allowing us to more easily identify and enter into partnerships or acquire companies and technologies. Our acquisitions and partnerships include investments in software, such as our acquisitions of Adjust, MAX, MoPub, and SafeDK, and game studios, such as our acquisition of PeopleFun and partnership with Belka Games. Our unique and active role in the ecosystem allows us to make informed, data-driven decisions regarding which tools best address developer pain points. As part of AppLovin, our strategic acquisitions and partnerships benefit from our software and expertise, typically achieving step-function improvements in performance. Once we have acquired or partnered with a studio, we allow the studio to maintain its creative autonomy and help the studio to manage its business needs by leveraging all of the tools and capabilities of our Core Technologies and Software Platform. Given our strategic insights and long-standing relationships with many game studios, we are able to identify highly attractive acquisitions and partnerships. From the beginning of 2018 through December 31, 2021, we have invested over $2.5 billion across 27 strategic acquisitions and partnerships in software and gaming. Benefits to Mobile App Developers We enable mobile app developers to: Reach and attract users at scale. Our Software Platform reaches millions of users per day, enabling developers to target and find the right users for their apps worldwide. Developers are able to set their user acquisition and revenue goals to target the most relevant, highest value users. Maximize monetization of engagement. Developers use our Software Platform to generate incremental revenue by maximizing the monetization of their mobile app ad inventory. Our tools operate at nearly instantaneous speeds and at vast scale to enhance monetization for developers while preserving the end user experience. Leverage proprietary data and insights. Developers benefit from accessing comprehensive real-time insights through our customized user dashboards, helping them optimize campaigns, improve user engagement, and manage their return on investment. 7 Table of Contents Automate time consuming and manual processes. Our Software Platform automates marketing and monetization, allowing developers to focus on improving their apps rather than managing complex go-to-market processes manually. Seamlessly adapt to industry innovation. Our cloud-based Core Technologies and Software Platform are continuously updated as the mobile app ecosystem evolves. Developers on our Software Platform benefit from this ongoing advancement and optimization, and are able to rapidly adapt to industry changes in marketing and monetization without losing focus on mobile app creation. Our Strategy for Growth We have a comprehensive strategy to continue our growth and further enhance our market position in the mobile app ecosystem. Existing market expansion. We have an attractive market opportunity within our growing mobile app segments and will continue to invest across our Core Technologies, Software Platform, and Apps. Enhance and extend machine-learning platform technologies. As we increase our scale and reach, we benefit from compounding improvements to our AXON machine-learning recommendation engine, which in turn improves the efficacy and growth of our Software Platform solutions. Expand distribution reach and software capabilities. Improvements to AXON and our App Graph help to accelerate AppDiscovery s growth. We also see an opportunity to increase market adoption of our MAX monetization solution, in part, through our acquisition of MoPub. By integrating MoPub's reach and product features into our existing Software Platform, we expect to better maximize revenue growth and improve efficiencies for our combined customers. Grow AppLovin Apps. We intend to grow our AppLovin Apps portfolio by making appropriate user acquisition investments, using live-ops to enhance engagement and monetization of our Apps, and launching new titles. New market extensions. We believe our technology and expertise are applicable to other market segments and geographies that we do not currently address: Expand into other mobile app segments and industries. Our long-term objective is to power and operate mobile apps across multiple verticals such as e-commerce, entertainment, and health and wellness. We believe our deep expertise and capabilities in the complex mobile gaming sector will allow us to successfully apply our technology in other verticals. Geographic expansion and industry partnerships. We have a large international expansion opportunity given only 40% of our total revenue came from outside of the United States in 2021. To expand our reach, we plan to further invest in our sales and marketing to increase penetration among new and existing clients. Other performance marketing and yield marketing categories. We believe our technology and expertise are applicable to other large and growing performance marketing categories beyond mobile apps. Pursue accretive strategic acquisitions and partnerships. Given our proven track record, long-standing relationships with key industry players, and reputation as a partner of choice, we have a deep pipeline of software and app investment opportunities which we will continue to pursue. Our Core Technologies, Software Platform, and Apps We solve the marketing and monetization challenges facing mobile app developers through our Core Technologies and Software Platform. We help grow the worldwide mobile app ecosystem by enabling developers to scale their businesses while remaining focused on creating and improving their apps. We scale our own Apps by fully utilizing our Software Platform and expert insights, while continuously improving our software for the benefit of all developers. 8 Table of Contents AppLovin Core Technologies Our Core Technologies power our client-facing Software Platform and consist of our AXON machine-learning recommendation engine, our App Graph, and a flexible, robust cloud infrastructure. The underlying elastic architecture is managed through multiple cloud providers and our own co-located data centers, handling massive amounts of data while remaining flexible enough to rapidly add new solutions and technology in response to changing market and customer needs. Our Core Technologies process device-level data from millions of devices. Our App Graph stores and manages this anonymized data allowing AXON to then leverage it to better predict and match users to relevant advertising content. These insights fuel our Software Platform, which better matches users to content and create a more personalized experience. Our Software Platform also enables real-time auctions that optimize the value for each impression, while simultaneously enabling developers to attain an attractive value for each of the impressions from their inventory. The sum total of these mutually reinforcing software elements has created a robust and successful marketing and monetization engine that operates at high scale and speed. AppLovin Software Platform Our comprehensive Software Platform enables app developers to automate their mobile app marketing, engagement, and monetization efforts in three core ways. First, we provide marketing technology that allows developers to reach more of the most suitable users with personalized content, in order to increase the number of users who download and engage with their apps. Second, we provide developers with monetization and analytics technology to maximize the value of their inventory by obtaining a high price for each impression. Third, we provide developers a set of capabilities to optimize their apps and help streamline their businesses. Our key Software Platform offerings are AppDiscovery, Adjust and MAX. AppDiscovery AppDiscovery is a suite of marketing solutions that enables developers to automate, optimize, and manage their marketing efforts. AppDiscovery is powered by machine-learning with predictive algorithms that enable developers to match their apps to users that are more likely to download them. This form of personalized advertising focuses on the end user, enabling the advertisers to find the right users and delivering to users more of what they are likely to be interested in. AppDiscovery leverages our AXON machine-learning recommendation engine to target the right users with the right marketing campaign, at scale. Advertisers not only attract users that download, but also find a high volume of users that stay and engage with their apps for greater retention and ultimately, increased opportunities for better monetization. Revenue from AppDiscovery comprises a vast majority of revenue from our Software Platform. With AppDiscovery, advertisers can define the framework of their campaigns in the following ways: Reach: Advertisers identify what they are willing to pay to acquire their target users. Our technology finds the users at that value who are most likely to download and engage with the app. 9 Table of Contents Global scale: Advertisers can choose to connect with users in different regions around the world, and our technology suggests the best locations based on their parameters. Retain and engage: Our algorithms automatically adjust based on the likelihood users will engage. Our clients can analyze by retention periods from initial app download onwards, so that advertisers understand the effectiveness of their marketing investments. Targeted returns: Advertisers set their goals and target return on ad sales and our algorithms adjust cost and campaign specifics to meet them. AppDiscovery includes the following features: Advanced campaign management: An interface to create, manage, and automatically optimize campaigns based on return on ad sales goals. Real-time analytics: An interface to see results and optimize against them with our ROI-based analytics environment. Life-Time-Value (LTV) reporting: A tool that breaks down campaign results by source and location, allowing advertisers to make real-time, informed decisions about the value and longevity of their campaigns. High quality and quantity creatives: Advertisers can make and test as many creatives as needed. They also have access to our in-house creati