Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40 Item 1C. C yber se curity 40 Item 2. Properties 42 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42 Part II 42 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6. [Reserved] 43 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 105 Item 9B. Other Information 105 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 106 Part III 107 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owner and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13. Certain Relationship and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 107 Part IV 108 Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 108 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 111 Signatures 112 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans, or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include statements about: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, and operating expenses, and our ability to achieve or maintain future profitability; the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents to meet our liquidity needs; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our AppLovin Software Platform and AppLovin Apps; our expectations regarding the effects of existing and developing laws and regulations, including with respect to taxation and privacy and data protection; our ability to attract and retain employees and key personnel; our expectations regarding the macroeconomic environment, inflation and high interest rates, uncertainty in the global banking and financial services markets, political uncertainty and international conflicts around the world; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to manage risk associated with our business; the demand for our AppLovin Software Platform and AppLovin Apps; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; our ability to attract and retain clients and users; our ability to develop new products, features, and enhancements for our AppLovin Software Platform and to launch or acquire new AppLovin Apps and successfully monetize them; our ability to compete with existing and new competitors in existing and new markets and offerings; our ability to successfully acquire and integrate companies and assets and to expand and diversify our operations through strategic acquisitions and partnerships; our expectations regarding new and evolving markets; our expectations and management of future growth; our expectations regarding our share repurchase program; and our ability to develop and protect our brand. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. 1 Table of Contents Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Moreover, the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, partnerships, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures, or investments we may make. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Part I Item 1. Business Our mission is to create meaningful connections between companies and their ideal customers. Our software platform provides end-to-end software and artificial intelligence-powered ("AI") solutions for businesses to reach, monetize and grow their global audience ("Software Platform"). We also operate a portfolio of owned mobile apps ( Apps ). Our scaled business model sits at the nexus of the advertising ecosystem, which creates a durable competitive advantage that has fueled our clients success and our strong growth. AppLovin is critical to the success of advertisers seeking to solve marketing and monetization challenges. Through our technologies and scaled distribution, advertisers are able to better place content so that it is discovered by the right audience, manage, optimize, and analyze their marketing investments, and improve the monetization of their content. Our Software Platform includes a comprehensive suite of tools including: AppDiscovery, our marketing software solution, is the cornerstone of our Software Platform, augmented by our rapidly growing MAX monetization solution. AppDiscovery is powered by AXON, our AI-powered advertising engine, and matches advertiser demand with publisher supply through auctions at vast scale and at microsecond-level speeds. MAX is our monetization solution, utilizing an advanced in-app bidding technology that optimizes the value of a publisher s advertising inventory by running a real-time competitive auction, driving more competition, and higher returns for publishers. Adjust is our measurement and analytics marketing platform which provides marketers with the visibility, insights, and data needed to scale their apps marketing and drive more informed results. Wurl is our connected TV ("CTV") platform that both distributes streaming video for content companies and provides advanced advertising and publishing solutions to attract viewers and maximize revenue. We generate our revenue from our Software Platform and our Apps. As more advertisers use our Software Platform to market and monetize their content, we gain access to more data regarding users and user engagement 1 , further strengthening our scaled distribution. As our distribution grows, we gain better insights for our AXON recommendation engine, which then further enhances our Software Platform. Our Apps consist of a globally diversified portfolio of over 200 free-to-play mobile games across five genres, run by eleven studios, some of which we own and others that we partner with. Our studios generally focus on the development of easy to learn and play games, which appeal to a broad range of demographics, but our portfolio also includes several games for other genres. We report our operating results through two reportable segments: Software Platform and Apps. These segments align with how our Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") allocates resources, makes operating decisions, and manages and assesses the performance of our business. For the amount of revenue derived from our two segments and other relevant data for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, as well as other additional information, see Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AppLovin Software Platform Our comprehensive, end-to-end Software Platform delivers value by helping companies scale their businesses and maximize their revenue. Specifically, our Software Platform, which is powered by AXON, our AI-based recommendation engine, enables advertisers to automate their marketing, engagement, and monetization efforts in three core ways. First, we provide marketing technology that allows advertisers to reach more of the most suitable users with personalized content in order to increase the number of users who download and engage with their content. Second, we provide advertisers with monetization 1 Adjust s marketing platform is operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary and data generated by Adjust's services is not shared with AppLovin or incorporated into or used to optimize its recommendation engine or other technologies. 2 Table of Contents and analytics technology to maximize the value of their advertising inventory by obtaining a high price for each impression. Third, we provide developers a set of capabilities to optimize their apps and help streamline their businesses. Additionally, we have entered the CTV advertising market with the integration of Wurl. Our Software Platform also enables publishers to leverage real-time auctions that optimize the value for each impression, while simultaneously enabling them to attain an attractive value for each of the impressions from their advertising inventory. When these mutually reinforcing elements of our Software Platform are combined, it creates a robust and successful marketing and monetization engine that both sells attractive advertising inventory to advertisers while monetizing it for publishers. Our Software Platform is delivered through an integrated and seamless user interface, which provides the following benefits to advertisers: Reach and attract users at scale: Our Software Platform reaches approximately 1.4 billion users per day, enabling developers to target and find the right users for their content worldwide. Advertisers are able to set their user acquisition and revenue goals to target the most relevant, highest value users. Maximize monetization of engagement: Advertisers use our Software Platform to generate incremental revenue by maximizing the monetization of their ad inventory. Our tools operate at microsecond-level speeds and at vast scale to enhance monetization for developers while preserving the end user experience. Leverage proprietary data and insights: Advertisers benefit from accessing comprehensive real-time insights through our customized user dashboards, helping them optimize campaigns, improve user engagement, and manage their return on investment. Automate time consuming and manual processes: Our Software Platform automates marketing and monetization, allowing advertisers to focus on improving their content rather than managing complex go-to-market processes manually. Seamlessly adapt to industry innovation: Our Software Platform is continuously updated as the advertising ecosystem evolves. Advertisers on our Software Platform benefit from this ongoing advancement and optimization and are able to rapidly adapt to industry changes in marketing and monetization without losing focus on content creation. Our Software Platform is primarily made up of four key solutions: AppDiscovery, MAX, Adjust, and Wurl. AppDiscovery AppDiscovery is a suite of marketing solutions that enables developers to automate, optimize, and manage their marketing efforts. AppDiscovery is powered by AXON's predictive algorithms to enable advertisers to match their apps to users that are more likely to download them. This form of personalized advertising focuses on the end user, enabling the advertisers to find the right users and delivering to users more of what they are likely to be interested in. Advertisers are not only able to attract users that download, but also find a high volume of users that stay and engage with their apps for greater retention and ultimately, increased opportunities for better monetization. Revenue from AppDiscovery comprises a vast majority of revenue from our Software Platform. With AppDiscovery, advertisers can define the framework of their campaigns in the following ways: Reach: Advertisers identify what they are willing to pay to acquire their target users. Our technology finds the users at that value who are most likely to download and engage with the app. Global scale: Advertisers can choose to connect with users in different regions around the world, and our technology suggests the best locations based on their parameters. Retain and engage: Our system is built around optimizing to the advertisers revenue so our algorithms automatically adjust based on the likelihood users will engage. Our clients can analyze by retention periods from initial app download onwards, so that advertisers understand the effectiveness of their marketing investments. Targeted returns: Advertisers set their goals and target return on ad sales and our algorithms adjust cost and campaign specifics to meet them. 3 Table of Contents AppDiscovery includes the following features: Advanced campaign management: An interface to create, manage, and automatically optimize campaigns based on return on ad sales goals. Real-time analytics: An interface to see results and optimize against them with our ROI-based analytics environment. Lifetime Value ("LTV") reporting: A tool that breaks down campaign results by source and location, allowing advertisers to make real-time, informed decisions about the value and longevity of their campaigns. High quality and quantity creatives: Advertisers can make and test as many creatives as needed. They also have access to our in-house creative team, SparkLabs, for expert ad creation and testing strategies. MAX MAX is our in-app bidding software that optimizes the value of publishers' advertising inventory by running a single unbiased, real-time competitive auction, driving more competition and higher returns for publishers. MAX auctions are more effective than historical tools and approaches because MAX yields more targeted users for advertisers and enables publishers to achieve better competitive prices for each impression. Many developers who integrate MAX have experienced a measurable increase in their average revenue per daily active user ("ARPDAU") over traditional monetization tools and save countless hours because they are able to automate manual monetization work through its advanced feature set. As a result, MAX has become the preferred in-app bidding solution for many publishers worldwide, helping drive meaningful growth and momentum for AppLovin. MAX includes the following features: Advanced in-app bidding technology: MAX s competitive auctions happen in real time with most bidding platforms in the industry bidding simultaneously for developers inventory at high volume. The competitive global demand helps maximize average revenue per user on each impression with many developers experiencing a measurable increase when moving to MAX. Automated monetization: MAX saves developers time through its extensive suite of APIs for automation. Ad quality assurance and review: MAX drives superior user experience with exclusive features that automatically flag risky content to keep developers brands safe. Powerful insights: MAX helps developers better understand the LTV for each user and increase revenue to maximize yield for each ad opportunity. Adjust Adjust is our measurement and analytics marketing platform which provides the visibility, insights, and tools marketers need to grow their apps from early stage to maturity. Our software-as-a-service ("SaaS") platform is an end-to-end solution for optimizing ad performance and maximizing returns, powered by accurate attribution data and in-depth reporting that are essential for meeting business goals. Adjust allows clients to better understand their users journey while allowing marketers to make smarter decisions through measurement, attribution, and fraud prevention. The Adjust product solutions allow customers to benefit from the following key features: Impact through measurement: Drive results faster with accurate, timely measurement on marketing and ad spend across channels. Insights through real-time data and reports: Easily share timely, actionable insights with stakeholders to drive their business forward. Strategic growth with automated attribution solutions: Scale profits with automated solutions that attribute sources and help customers work smarter and accomplish more. Wurl Wurl is our connected TV ("CTV") platform which distributes streaming video for content companies and provides advertising and publishing solutions to maximize advertising revenue, grow their CTV viewership, and strengthen their brand value. Wurl focuses on driving the streaming industry forward with market-leading solutions that help connect the right viewers to the right content. It brings data-driven advertising and measurement to Connected TV. The technology helps companies engage with the highest-value viewers, and ultimately increase their revenue. Wurl has built the following products to meet their customers needs: AdPool: is a monetization solution that connects CTV supply with top advertisers and access to exclusive demand. ContentDiscovery: is an advertising solution that grows audiences, increases engagement, and reduces churn for streaming platforms and apps. 4 Table of Contents Global FAST Pass (GFP): is a distribution solution that makes it easy to launch Free Ad-supported Streaming TV channels. AppLovin Apps Today, our Apps consist of a globally diversified portfolio of over 200 free-to-play mobile games across five genres, run by eleven studios located worldwide with a deep bench of talented developers. Our studios have developed and published games across a number of genres including: casual, match-three, card/casino, midcore, and hyper-casual. A large portion of our portfolio are casual, match-three and card/casino games that have a lower risk of development and generally have more predictable revenue streams and return. These games can be played a few minutes at a time and appeal to a wide range of users across many highly attractive demographics. Our studios leverage live ops to quickly iterate and increase in-game monetization by optimizing app economies and improving in-game conversion on items and offers. The studios operating our portfolio of Apps utilize our Software Platform to market, scale, and monetize our Apps. Our Strategy for Growth We have a comprehensive strategy to continue our growth and further enhance our market position in the advertising ecosystem: Existing market expansion: We continue to have an attractive market opportunity within our current mobile app segment, which we intend to address through the optimization of our Software Platform. Enhance and extend AI-based technologies: As we increase our scale and reach, we benefit from compounding improvements to AXON, our AI-powered advertising engine, which in turn improves the efficacy and growth of our Software Platform solutions. New market expansion: We are confident our technology and expertise are applicable to other market segments and geographies we do not currently address, including: Non-gaming mobile app segments and industries: One of our long-term objectives is to provide critical tools to mobile app developers across multiple verticals, including, for example, e-commerce and social media. Other content industries: We believe our deep expertise and capabilities will allow us to successfully apply our solutions to tangential sectors, including with mobile OEMs and carriers through our Array product initiative, as well as the growing CTV industry through our 2022 acquisition of Wurl, LLC. We continue to expand our CTV business through the addition of new content advertisers and supply channels as well as through the application of AXON to CTV. Industry partnerships: We plan to further invest in our sales and marketing teams to increase penetration among new and existing clients, including in expansion markets we are targeting. Attracting and retaining the best talent: Our employees are at the core of our technology and success. We intend to continue to invest in attracting and retaining exceptional talent who share our values and will drive our future growth. Pursue strategic investments and partnerships: Given our proven track record in strategic transactions, and our long-standing relationships with key industry players, we have earned a reputation as a partner of choice, and will continue to consider and leverage strategic acquisitions, partnerships, and investment opportunities to accelerate our growth. Our Customers and Developer Community Our globally diverse customers range from the largest enterprises to small and independent businesses and individuals across a variety of industries. Our customers comprise multiple groups within the advertising ecosystem including advertisers leveraging our platform to find users and advertising networks using our mediation solution to purchase advertising inventory. Our Apps also work with advertising networks who purchase advertising inventory and consumers who purchase in-app products. We also work with the mobile app publisher community who leverage our mediation solution to monetize their inventory. The scale and breadth of our customers in terms of size and industry provides us with a competitive advantage. Competition We operate in a fragmented advertising ecosystem composed of divisions of large, well-established companies as well as privately-held companies. The large companies in our advertising and mobile app ecosystems may play multiple different roles given the breadth of their businesses. Advertisers typically engage with several advertising platforms and networks to purchase advertisements on mobile apps, devices, and on CTV, looking to optimize their marketing investments. Such advertising platform companies vary in size and include players such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Unity Software, as well as various private companies. Several of these platforms, including Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Unity Software, are also our partners and clients. There are many companies that develop online and mobile games and other mobile apps. The larger gaming companies in our gaming ecosystem include Activision Blizzard (Microsoft), Tencent, and Zynga (Take-Two 5 Table of Contents Interactive), as well as other public and private companies. Many of these companies are also our partners and clients. We also expect new developers to enter the market and existing companies to allocate more resources to develop and market more mobile games and apps. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market are: the ability to enhance and improve technologies and offerings; knowledge, expertise, and experience in the advertising ecosystem; relationships with third parties in the advertising ecosystem; the ability to reach and target a large number of users; the ability to identify and execute on strategic transactions; the ability to successfully launch and monetize mobile apps; the pricing and perceived value of offerings; brand and reputation; and ability to expand into new offerings and geographies. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors. Our Values Our AppLovin Values capture our company s culture and guide our approach on how we build and grow our business with all stakeholders: Think Like an Entrepreneur We take intelligent risks and embrace new challenges as a part of our DNA. We empower our employees to try new things, question the status quo, and constantly innovate. We accomplish this by optimizing resources, keeping our teams lean, agile, focused, and not slowing down progress with bureaucracy. Take Initiative, Ownership, and Make an Impact We are proactive, voice ideas, and take action to drive ourselves, our teams, and our business toward continued success. We are not an environment where work is handed to you, instead we trust your ability to take ownership and make an impact. Hire and Reward Doers We hire, develop and reward doers who are highly motivated, passionate, and want to work in a collaborative and inclusive environment to take their own careers and our business to the next level. We are not afraid to part ways with underperformers or those satisfied with the bare minimum and will enable them to follow their passions towards a better path. Move Fast We move quickly and intentionally. We test, iterate and optimize constantly, using data to drive decisions. Together we discover new ways to move beyond accomplishing our objectives and surpassing expectations while maintaining our high standards. Even as we move fast, we act with integrity and transparency. We do not fear failure because we know that failure often breeds opportunity, and ultimately, success. Never Stop Learning We are curious and seek to learn more than just what s in our lanes. Learning the latest technologies and what others are doing around us allows us to identify problems and build products to solve them. It enables us to adapt, innovate, and thrive in a constantly evolving and competitive landscape. Research and Development Continued investment in research and development is important to advancing our Software Platform and Apps. These advancements are key to attaining our strategic objectives and meeting the evolving needs of our customers. The underlying elastic architecture of our solutions allows us to create, test, and deploy new features rapidly while distributing them globally. We also continue to invest in new and existing Apps. Our research and development team is working on cutting edge technologies, which allows us to attract top talent globally. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 950 employees, or 54% of our total headcount, involved in research and development and related activities. Our research and development organization is based in Palo Alto, California with additional resources around the world. 6 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to our Software Platform and Apps, and to operate without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating valid and enforceable third-party intellectual property. We seek to accomplish that objective by establishing intellectual property rights in and protecting those assets through a combination of patents, patent applications, registered and unregistered trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, and other contractual measures. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, we believe that factors, such as our unique position in the advertising ecosystem, our expertise and determination of our employees, and the functionality and flexibility of our Software Platform in an ever-evolving industry, are also key contributors to our success. As of December 31, 2023, we owned the following trademarks related to the business: 45 registered trademarks in the United States, 10 pending trademark applications in the United States, as well as 477 registered trademarks in non-U.S. jurisdictions, and 11 pending trademark applications in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. We also have registered domain names for websites that we use in our business, such as www.applovin.com. Finally, as of December 31, 2023, we owned the following patents related to the business: 28 issued U.S. patents and 1 U.S. patent application. Our issued U.S. patents, and any patents that may issue from our pending applications, are scheduled to expire at dates ranging between 2033 and 2039, excluding any additional t