Item 1. Business 5 Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant 13 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 27 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. [Reserved ] 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Item 9B. Other Information 128 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 129 Item 11. Executive Compensation 129 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 129 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 129 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 129 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 130 3 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the exhibits being filed as part of this report, as well as other statements made by Aptiv PLC ( Aptiv, the Company, we, us and our ), contain forward-looking statements that reflect, when made, the Company s current views with respect to current events, certain investments and acquisitions and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to many risks, uncertainties and factors relating to the Company s operations and business environment, which may cause the actual results of the Company to be materially different from any future results, express or implied, by such forward-looking statements. All statements that address future operating, financial or business performance or the Company s strategies or expectations are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as may, might, will, should, expects, plans, intends, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, projects, potential, outlook or continue, and other comparable terminology. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: global and regional economic conditions, including conditions affecting the credit market; global inflationary pressures; uncertainties created by the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, and its impacts to the European and global economies and our operations in each country; uncertainties created by the conflicts in the Middle East and their impacts on global economies; fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; the cyclical nature of global automotive sales and production; the potential disruptions in the supply of and changes in the competitive environment for raw material and other components integral to the Company s products, including the ongoing semiconductor supply shortage; the Company s ability to maintain contracts that are critical to its operations; potential changes to beneficial free trade laws and regulations, such as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement; changes to tax laws; future significant public health crises; the ability of the Company to integrate and realize the expected benefits of recent transactions; the ability of the Company to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives; the ability of the Company to avoid or continue to operate during a strike, or partial work stoppage or slow down by any of its unionized employees or those of its principal customers; and the ability of the Company to attract and retain customers. Additional factors are discussed under the captions Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect the Company. It should be remembered that the price of the ordinary shares and any income from them can go down as well as up. Aptiv disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events and/or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Aptiv, the Company, we, us and our refer to Aptiv PLC (formerly known as Delphi Automotive PLC), a public limited company formed under the laws of Jersey on May 19, 2011, which completed an initial public offering on November 22, 2011, and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company s ordinary shares are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol APTV. Aptiv is a leading global technology and mobility architecture company primarily serving the automotive sector. We deliver end-to-end mobility solutions, enabling our customers transition to more electrified, software-defined vehicles. We design and manufacture vehicle components and provide electrical, electronic and active safety technology solutions to the global automotive and commercial vehicle markets, creating the software and hardware foundation for vehicle features and functionality. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment is focused on providing the necessary software and advanced computing platforms, and our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on providing the requisite networking architecture required to support the integrated systems in today s complex vehicles. Together, our businesses develop the brain and the nervous system of increasingly complex vehicles, providing integration of the vehicle into its operating environment. We are one of the largest vehicle technology suppliers and our customers include the 25 largest automotive original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) in the world. We operate 138 major manufacturing facilities and 11 major technical centers utilizing a regional service model that enables us to efficiently and effectively serve our global customers from best cost countries. We have a presence in 50 countries and have approximately 22,200 scientists, engineers and technicians focused on developing market relevant product solutions for our customers. We are focused on growing and improving the profitability of our businesses, and have implemented a strategy designed to position the Company to deliver industry-leading long-term shareholder returns. This strategy includes disciplined investing in our business to grow and enhance our product offerings, strategically focusing our portfolio in high-technology, high-growth spaces in order to meet consumer preferences and leveraging an industry-leading cost structure to expand our operating margins. Website Access to Company s Reports Aptiv s website address is aptiv.com . Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Our Company We believe the automotive industry is being shaped by rapidly increasing consumer demand for new mobility solutions, advanced technologies, including software-defined vehicles, and vehicle connectivity, as well as increasing government regulation related to vehicle safety, fuel efficiency and emissions control. These industry mega-trends, which we refer to as Safe, Green and Connected, are driving higher growth in products that address these trends than growth in the automotive industry overall. We have organized our business into two diversified segments, which enable us to develop technology solutions and manufacture highly-engineered products that enable our customers to respond to these mega-trends: Signal and Power Solutions This segment provides complete design, manufacture and assembly of the vehicle s electrical architecture, including engineered component products, connectors, wiring assemblies and harnesses, cable management, electrical centers and high voltage power and safety-critical data distribution systems. Our products provide the signal distribution and computing power backbone that supports increased vehicle content and electrification, reduced emissions, higher fuel economy and off-vehicle connectivity. Advanced Safety and User Experience This segment provides critical technologies and services to enhance vehicle safety, security, comfort and convenience, including sensing and perception systems, electronic control units, multi-domain controllers, vehicle connectivity systems, cloud-native software platforms, application software, autonomous driving technologies and end-to-end DevOps tools. Refer to Results of Operations by Segment in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 22. Segment Reporting to the audited consolidated financial statements for financial information about our business segments. Our business is diversified across end-markets, regions, customers, vehicle platforms and products. Our customer base includes the 25 largest automotive OEMs in the world, and in 2023, 28% of our net sales came from the Asia Pacific region, which we have identified as a key market likely to experience substantial long-term growth. Our ten largest platforms in 2023 5 Table of Contents were with six different OEMs. In addition, in 2023 our products were found in 17 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in the United States ( U.S. ), 16 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in Europe and 12 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in China. We have established a worldwide design and manufacturing footprint with a regional service model that enables us to efficiently and effectively serve our global customers from best cost countries. This regional model is structured primarily to service the North American market from Mexico, the South American market from Brazil, the European market from Eastern Europe and North Africa, and the Asia Pacific market from China. Our global scale and regional service model enables us to engineer globally and execute regionally to serve the largest OEMs, which are seeking suppliers that can serve them on a worldwide basis. Our footprint also enables us to adapt to the regional design variations the global OEMs require while also serving key growth market OEMs. Our Industry The automotive technology and components industry provides critical technologies, components, systems, subsystems and modules to OEMs for the manufacture of new vehicles, as well as to the aftermarket for use as replacement parts for current production and older vehicles. In addition, the industry is increasingly progressing towards software-defined vehicles becoming critical elements of the overall automotive ecosystem. Overall, we expect long-term growth of global vehicle sales and production in the OEM market. In 2023, the industry experienced increased global customer sales and production schedules, despite various global uncertainties and global inflationary pressures. Global automotive vehicle production increased 9% (10% on an Aptiv weighted market basis, which represents global vehicle production weighted to the geographic regions in which the Company generates its revenue) from 2022 to 2023, reflecting increased vehicle production of 13% in Europe, 10% in China, 9% in North America and flat production in South America, our smallest region. Demand for automotive components in the OEM market is generally a function of the number of new vehicles produced in response to consumer demand, which is primarily driven by macro-economic factors such as credit availability, interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment and other trends. Although OEM demand is tied to actual vehicle production, participants in the automotive technology and components industry also have the opportunity to grow through increasing product content per vehicle by further penetrating business with existing customers and in existing markets, gaining new customers and increasing their presence in global markets. We believe that evolving entrants into the global transportation industry such as mobility providers, electric vehicle developers and smart cities will provide additional markets for our advanced technologies. We believe that as a company with a global presence and advanced technology, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities, we are well-positioned to benefit from these opportunities. We believe that continuously increasing societal demands have created the three mega-trends that serve as the basis for the next wave of market-driven automotive technology advancement. We aim to continue developing leading edge technology focused on addressing these mega-trends, and apply that technology toward products with sustainable margins that enable our customers, both OEMs and others, to produce distinctive market-leading products. We have identified a core portfolio of products that draw on our technical strengths and align with these mega-trends where we believe we can provide differentiation to our customers. Safe . The first mega-trend, Safe, represents technologies aimed not just at protecting vehicle occupants when a crash occurs, but those that actually proactively reduce the risk of a crash occurring. OEMs continue to focus on improving occupant and pedestrian safety in order to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements in various markets. As a result, suppliers are focused on developing technologies aimed at protecting vehicle occupants when a crash occurs, as well as advanced driver assistance systems that reduce driver distractions and automated safety features that proactively mitigate the risk of a crash occurring. Examples of new and alternative technologies that incorporate sophisticated detection and advanced software for collision avoidance include lane departure warning and centering systems, adaptive cruise control and traffic jam assist, and driver and cabin monitoring systems. Green . The second mega-trend, Green, represents technologies designed to help reduce emissions, increase fuel economy and minimize the environmental impact of vehicles. Green is a key mega-trend today because of the convergence of several issues: climate change, volatility in oil prices, an increasing number of vehicles in use worldwide and recent and pending regulation in every region regarding fuel economy and greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions. OEMs continue to focus on improving fuel efficiency and reducing emissions in order to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements in various markets. On a worldwide basis, the relevant authorities in the largest markets in which we operate have already instituted regulations requiring reductions in emissions and/or increased fuel economy. In many cases, other authorities have initiated legislation or regulation that would further tighten the standards through 2024 and beyond. Based on the current regulatory environment, we believe that OEMs, including those in the U.S. and China, will be subject to requirements for even greater reductions in carbon dioxide ( CO 2 ) emissions over the next ten years. For example, in the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA ) proposed new rules in 2023 that could require as much as 67% of all light-duty vehicles and 46% of medium-duty vehicles sold in the U.S. by model year 2032 to be all-electric, and the California Air Resources 6 Table of Contents Board approved rules in 2022, which require that all new passenger cars and light trucks sold in California be electric vehicles or other emissions-free models by 2035. In 2021, the EPA also finalized more stringent GHG emissions standards for passenger car and light trucks for model years 2023-2026. These and other standards will require meaningful innovation as OEMs and suppliers are challenged to find ways to improve engine management, electrical power consumption, vehicle weight and integration of electric vehicles and alternative technologies. As a result, suppliers are developing innovations that result in significant improvements in fuel economy, emissions and performance from internal combustion engines and electric vehicles. At the same time, suppliers are also developing and marketing new and alternative technologies that support electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel cell products to improve fuel economy and emissions. We are developing key enabling technologies in the areas of vehicle charging and vehicle power distribution and control that are essential to the introduction of our customers electrified vehicle platforms. We are also enabling the trend towards vehicle electrification with high voltage electrification solutions that reduce CO 2 emissions and increase fuel economy, helping to make the world greener. Connected . The third mega-trend, Connected, represents technologies designed to seamlessly integrate today s highly complex vehicles into the electronic operating environment, and provide drivers with connectivity to the global information network. The technology content of vehicles continues to increase as consumers demand greater safety, personalization, infotainment, productivity and convenience while driving, which in turn leads to increasing demand for electrical architecture as a foundation for this content. Also with increased smart device usage in vehicles, driver distractions can be dramatically increased, which in turn results in greater risk of accidents. We are pioneering vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communication technologies which enable vehicles to detect and signal danger, reducing vehicle collisions and improving driver safety, while also maintaining connectivity to an increasing number of devices inside and outside of vehicles. We also utilize advanced connectivity solutions such as over-the-air (OTA) technology that enable vehicles to receive software updates remotely and collect market-relevant data from connected vehicles. We expect these mega-trends to continue to create growth and opportunity for us. We believe we are well-positioned to provide solutions and products to OEMs to expand the electronic and technological content of their vehicles. We also believe electronics integration, which generally refers to products and systems that combine integrated circuits, software algorithms, sensor technologies and mechanical components within the vehicle will allow OEMs to achieve substantial reductions in weight and mechanical complexity, resulting in easier assembly, enhanced fuel economy, improved emissions control and better vehicle performance. Convergence of Safe, Green and Connected Solutions in New Mobility and Autonomous Driving Technologies The combination of advanced technologies being developed within these mega-trends is also contributing to increasing industry development of autonomous driving technologies, leading to a fully automated driving experience. We expect automated driving technologies will provide strong societal benefit as well as the opportunity for long-term growth for our product offerings in this space, including new potential customers such as mobility providers and smart cities that require solutions to increasing urban mobility challenges. Societal benefits of increased vehicle automation include enhanced safety (resulting from collision avoidance and improved vehicle control), environmental improvements (a reduction in CO 2 emissions resulting from optimized driving behavior), labor cost savings and improved productivity (as a result of alternate uses for drive time). Growth opportunities in this space result from increased content, additional computing power and software requirements, solutions to simplify lifecycle management, enhanced connectivity systems and increased electrification and interconnects. We believe the complexity of these systems will also require ongoing software support services, as these vehicle systems will be continuously upgraded with new features and performance enhancements As part of our strategy to harness the full potential of connected intelligent systems across industries, strengthen our capabilities in software-defined mobility and to enable advanced smart vehicle architecture changes, we acquired Wind River Systems, Inc. ( Wind River ) in December 2022. Wind River is a global leader in delivering software for the intelligent edge for multiple industries, including automotive, by leveraging mixed-criticality software products and solutions enabling customers to develop in the cloud, deploy over the air and run and manage software at the vehicle edge. We are also continuing to develop market-leading automated driving solutions such as automated driving software, key active safety sensing and compute technologies capable of supporting safety-critical applications. We believe we are well-aligned with industry technology trends that will help to support sustainable future growth in this space and are collaborating with leaders in their respective fields to advance the pace of development and commercialization of these emerging technologies. In March 2020, we completed a transaction with Hyundai Motor Group ( Hyundai ) to form Motional AD LLC ( Motional ), a joint venture focused on the design, development and commercialization of autonomous driving technologies. Motional began testing fully driverless systems in 2020 and began testing a production-ready autonomous driving platform available for robotaxi providers, meal delivery providers, fleet operators and automotive manufacturers at prototype scale in 7 Table of Contents 2022, with initial production deployments in the fourth quarter of 2023 and commercial launch planned in the first half of 2024. In addition, Motional is involved in collaborative arrangements with mobility providers and with smart cities such as Boston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles and Singapore as solutions are developed for the evolving nature of the mobility industry. To guide our product strategies and investments in technology with a focus on developing advanced technologies to drive growth within the Safe, Green and Connected mega-trends, we utilize and benefit from our Technology Advisory Council, a panel of prominent global technology thought leaders. Standardization of Sourcing by OEMs Many OEMs have adopted global vehicle platforms to increase standardization, reduce per unit cost and increase capital efficiency and profitability. As a result, OEMs select suppliers that have the capability to manufacture products on a worldwide basis as well as the flexibility to adapt to regional variations. Suppliers with global scale and strong design, engineering and manufacturing capabilities, are best positioned to benefit from this trend. OEMs are also increasingly looking to their suppliers to simplify vehicle design and assembly processes to reduce costs. As a result, suppliers that sell vehicle components directly to manufacturers (Tier I suppliers) have assumed many of the design, engineering, research and development and assembly functions traditionally performed by vehicle manufacturers. Suppliers that can provide fully engineered solutions, systems and pre-assembled combinations of component parts are positioned to leverage the trend toward system sourcing. Shorter Product Development Cycles As a result of government regulations and customer preferences, OEMs are requiring suppliers to respond faster with new designs and product innovations. While these trends are more prevalent in mature markets, certain key growth markets are advancing rapidly towards the regulatory standards and consumer preferences of the more mature markets. Suppliers with strong technologies, robust global engineering and development capabilities will be best positioned to meet OEM demands for rapid innovation. Products Our organizational structure and management reporting support the management of these core product lines: Signal and Power Solutions . This segment provides complete design, manufacture and assembly of the vehicle s electrical architecture, including connectors, wiring assemblies and harnesses, cable management, electrical centers and high voltage and safety-critical distribution systems. Our products provide the signal distribution and computing power backbone that supports increased vehicle content and electrification, reduced emissions, higher fuel economy and off-vehicle connectivity. High quality connectors are engineered primarily for use in automotive and related markets, and also have applications in the industrial, telematics, aerospace, defense and medical sectors. Electrical centers provide centralized electrical power and signal distribution and all of the associated circuit protection and switching devices, needed to support the optimization of the overall vehicle electrical system. Distribution systems, including 48-volt hybrid and high voltage systems, are integrated into one optimized vehicle electrical system that can utilize smaller cable and gauge sizes and ultra-thin wall insulation (this product line makes up approximately 42%, 44% and 42% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively). Advanced Safety and User Experience . This segment provides critical technologies and services to enhance vehicle safety, security, comfort and convenience, including sensing and perception systems, electronic control units, multi-domain controllers, vehicle connectivity systems, cloud-native software platforms, application software, autonomous driving technologies and end-to-end DevOps tools. Advanced Safety primarily consists of solutions that enable advanced safety features and vehicle automation, as well as radar, vision and other sensing technologies. User Experience primarily enables in-cabin solutions around infotainment, driver interface and interior sensing solutions. Smart Vehicle Compute and Software primarily consists of zone control and centralized computing platforms, as well as edge-to-cloud tools. Competition Although the overall number of our top competitors has decreased due to ongoing industry consolidation, the automotive technology and components industry remains extremely competitive. Furthermore, the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we compete has attracted, and may continue to attract, new entrants, particularly in best cost countries such as China and 8 Table of Contents in areas of evolving vehicle technologies such as intelligent systems software, automated driving and mobility solutions, which has attracted competitors from outside the traditional automotive industry. OEMs rigorously evaluate suppliers on the basis of product quality, price, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, technical expertise and development capability, new product innovation, financial viability, application of lean principles, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. In addition, our customers generally require that we demonstrate improved efficiencies, through cost reductions and/or price improvement, on a year-over-year basis. Our competitors in each of our operating segments are as follows: Segment Competitors Signal and Power Solutions Amphenol Corporation Draexlmaier Group Lear Corporation Leoni AG Molex Inc. (a subsidiary of Koch Industries, Inc.) Sumitomo Electric Industries TE Connectivity, Ltd. Yazaki Corporation Advanced Safety and User Experience Bosch Group Continental AG Denso Corporation Harman International (a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics) Hyundai Mobis LG Electronics Magna International Panasonic Corporation Valeo Visteon Corporation ZF Friedrichshafen AG Customers We sell our products and services to the major global OEMs in every region of the world. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 54% of our total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2023, none of which individually exceeded 10%. Supply Relationships with Our Customers We typically supply products to our OEM customers through purchase orders, which are generally governed by general terms and conditions established by each OEM. Although the terms and conditions vary from customer to customer, they typically contemplate a relationship under which our customers place orders for their requirements of specific components supplied for particular vehicles but are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. These relationships typically extend over the life of the related vehicle. Prices are negotiated with respect to each business award, which may be subject to adjustments under certain circumstances, such as commodity or foreign exchange escalation/de-escalation clauses or for cost reductions achieved by us. The terms and conditions typically provide that we are subject to a warranty on the products supplied; in most cases, the duration of such warranty is coterminous with the warranty offered by the OEM to the end-user of the vehicle. We may also be obligated to share in all or a part of recall costs if the OEM recalls its vehicles for defects attributable to our products. Individual purchase orders are terminable for cause or non-performance and, in most cases, upon our insolvency and certain change of control events. In addition, many of our OEM customers have the option to terminate for convenience on certain pro