Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 81 Item 2. Properties 81 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 81 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 81 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 82 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 85 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 87 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 129 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 131 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements W ith Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 131 Item 9A. Controls a nd Procedures 131 Item 9B. Other Information 133 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 134 Item 11. Executive Compensation 134 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 134 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions , and Director Independence 134 Item 14. Principal Account ing Fees and Services 134 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 135 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 137 Signatures 138 2 Table of Contents Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events, operations and financial performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as outlook, believes, expects, potential, continues, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, predicts, intends, plans, estimates, anticipates or the negative version of those words, other comparable words or other statements that do not relate to historical or factual matters. The forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future performance, taking into account all information currently available to us. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, financial results, financial condition, business prospects, growth strategy and liquidity. Some of these factors are described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, under the headings Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Risk Factors . These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the risk factors and other cautionary statements that are included in this report and in our other periodic filings. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements. New risks and uncertainties arise over time, and it is not possible for us to predict those events or how they may affect us. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. Unless the context suggests otherwise, references in this Annual Report on Form 10 K to (1) Ares, the "Company," we, us and our refer to our businesses, both before and after our conversion to a corporation. References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the Ares Operating Group refer to, collectively, Ares Holdings L.P. ( Ares Holdings ), Ares Offshore Holdings L.P. ( Ares Offshore ) and Ares Investments L.P. ( Ares Investments ). References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to an Ares Operating Group Unit or an AOG Unit refer to, collectively, a partnership unit in each of the Ares Operating Group entities. The use of any defined term in this report to mean more than one entities, persons, securities or other items collectively is solely for convenience of reference and in no way implies that such entities, persons, securities or other items are one indistinguishable group. For example, notwithstanding the use of the defined terms Ares, we and our in this report to refer to Ares Management Corporation and its subsidiaries, each subsidiary of Ares Management Corporation is a standalone legal entity that is separate and distinct from Ares Management Corporation and any of its other subsidiaries. The use of any defined term in this report to mean more than one entities, persons, securities or other items collectively is solely for convenience of reference and in no way implies that such entities, persons, securities or other items are one indistinguishable group. For example, notwithstanding the use of the defined terms Ares, we and our in this report to refer to Ares Management Corporation and its subsidiaries, each subsidiary of Ares Management Corporation is a standalone legal entity that is separate and distinct from Ares Management Corporation and any of its other subsidiaries. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( GAAP ), we are required to consolidate (a) entities other than limited partnerships and entities similar to limited partnerships in which we hold a majority voting interest or have majority ownership and control over the operational, financial and investing decisions of that entity, including Ares-affiliates and affiliated funds and co-investment entities, for which we are presumed to have controlling financial interests, and (b) entities that we concluded are variable interest entities ( VIEs ), including limited partnerships and collateralized loan obligations, for which we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary. When an entity is consolidated, we reflect the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the entity in our consolidated financial statements on a gross basis, subject to eliminations from consolidation, including the elimination of the management fees, performance income and other fees that we earn from the entity. However, the presentation of performance related compensation and other expenses associated with generating such revenues is not affected by the consolidation process. In addition, as a result of the consolidation process, the net income attributable to third-party investors in consolidated entities is presented as net income attributable to non-controlling interests in Consolidated Funds in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in addition to presenting our results on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, we present revenues, expenses and other results on a (i) segment basis, which deconsolidates these entities and therefore shows the results of our reportable segments without giving effect to the consolidation of the entities and (ii) unconsolidated reporting basis, which shows the results of our reportable segments on a combined segment basis together with our Operations Management Group. In addition to our reportable segments, we have an Operations Management Group (the OMG ) that consists of shared resource groups to support our reportable segments by providing infrastructure and administrative support in the areas of accounting/finance, operations, information technology, strategy and relationship management, legal, compliance and human resources. The OMG s expenses are not allocated to our reportable segments but we 3 Table of Contents consider the cost structure of the OMG when evaluating our financial performance. This information constitutes non-GAAP financial information within the meaning of Regulation G, as promulgated by the SEC. Our management uses this information to assess the performance of our reportable segments and our OMG, and we believe that this information enhances the ability of shareholders to analyze our performance. For more information, see Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 15. Segment Reporting. 4 Table of Contents Glossary When used in this report, unless the context otherwise requires: ARCC Part I Fees refers to a quarterly performance income on the net investment income of Ares Capital Corporation (NASDAQ: ARCC) ( ARCC ). Such fees from ARCC are classified as management fees as they are predictable and recurring in nature, not subject to contingent repayment and generally cash-settled each quarter; ARCC Part II Fees refers to fees that are paid in arrears as of the end of each calendar year when the cumulative aggregate realized capital gains exceed the cumulative aggregate realized capital losses and aggregate unrealized capital depreciation, less the aggregate amount of ARCC Part II Fees paid in all prior years since inception; Ares , the Company , we , us and our refer to (i) Ares Management Corporation and its subsidiaries following the Conversion and (ii) Ares Management, L.P. and its subsidiaries prior to the Conversion; Ares Operating Group Unit or an AOG Unit refers to, collectively, a partnership unit in each of the Ares Operating Group entities; assets under management or AUM refers to the assets we manage. For our funds other than CLOs, our AUM represents the sum of the net asset value of such funds, the drawn and undrawn debt (at the fund-level including amounts subject to restrictions) and uncalled committed capital (including commitments to funds that have yet to commence their investment periods). For our funds that are CLOs, our AUM is equal to initial principal amounts adjusted for paydowns; available capital (also referred to as dry powder ) is comprised of uncalled committed capital and undrawn amounts under credit facilities and may include AUM that may be canceled or not otherwise available to invest; CLOs refers to our funds that are structured as collateralized loan obligations; Conversion refers to our conversion effective November 26, 2018 from a Delaware limited partnership named Ares Management, L.P. into a Delaware corporation named Ares Management Corporation; Consolidated Funds refers collectively to certain Ares-affiliated funds, related co-investment entities and certain CLOs that are required under GAAP to be consolidated in our consolidated financial statements; Co-Founders refers to Michael Arougheti, David Kaplan, John Kissick, Antony Ressler and Bennett Rosenthal; Credit Facility refers to the revolving credit facility of the Ares Operating Group; effective management fee rate represents the annualized fees divided by the average fee paying AUM for the period, excluding the impact of one-time catch-up fees; fee paying AUM or FPAUM refers to the AUM from which we directly earn management fees. Fee paying AUM is equal to the sum of all the individual fee bases of our funds that directly contribute to our management fees; fee related earnings or FRE , a non-GAAP measure, is used to assess core operating performance by determining whether recurring revenue, primarily consisting of management fees, is sufficient to cover operating expenses and to generate profits. FRE differs from income before taxes computed in accordance with GAAP as it excludes performance income, performance related compensation, investment income from our Consolidated Funds and non-consolidated funds and certain other items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance; GAAP refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America; Holdco Members refers to Michael Arougheti, David Kaplan, Antony Ressler, Bennett Rosenthal, Ryan Berry, R. Kipp deVeer and Michael McFerran; 5 Table of Contents Incentive eligible AUM or IEAUM refers to the AUM of our funds from which performance income may be generated, regardless of whether or not they are currently generating performance income. It generally represents the NAV plus uncalled equity or total assets plus uncalled debt, as applicable, of our funds for which we are entitled to receive a performance income, excluding capital committed by us and our professionals (from which we generally do not earn performance income). With respect to ARCC's AUM, only ARCC Part II Fees may be generated from IEAUM; Incentive generating AUM or IGAUM refers to the AUM of our funds that are currently generating, on a realized or unrealized basis, performance income. It generally represents the NAV or total assets of our funds, as applicable, for which we are entitled to receive performance income, excluding capital committed by us and our professionals (from which we generally do not earn performance income). ARCC is only included in IGAUM when Part II Fees are being generated; management fees refers to fees we earn for advisory services provided to our funds, which are generally based on a defined percentage of fair value of assets, total commitments, invested capital, net asset value, net investment income, total assets or par value of the investment portfolios managed by us and also include ARCC Part I Fees that are classified as management fees as they are predictable and recurring in nature, not subject to contingent repayment and generally cash-settled each quarter; net inflows of capital refers to net new commitments during the period, including equity and debt commitments and gross inflows into our open-ended managed accounts and sub-advised accounts, as well as new debt and equity issuances by our publicly traded vehicles minus redemptions from our open-ended funds, managed accounts and sub-advised accounts; net performance income refers to performance income net of performance related compensation, which is the portion of the performance income earned from certain funds that is payable to our professionals; our funds refers to the funds, alternative asset companies, co-investment vehicles and other entities and accounts that are managed or co-managed by the Ares Operating Group, and which are structured to pay fees. It also includes funds managed by Ivy Hill Asset Management, L.P., a wholly owned portfolio company of ARCC, and a registered investment adviser; permanent capital refers to capital of our funds that do not have redemption provisions or a requirement to return capital to investors upon exiting the investments made with such capital, except as required by applicable law. Such funds currently consist of ARCC, Ares Commercial Real Estate Corporation ( ACRE ) and Ares Dynamic Credit Allocation Fund, Inc. ( ARDC ). Such funds may be required, or elect, to return all or a portion of capital gains and investment income; performance income refers to income we earn based on the performance of a fund, that is generally based on certain specific hurdle rates as defined in the fund s investment management or partnership agreements and may be either an incentive fee or carried interest; realized income or RI , a non-GAAP measure, is an operating metric used by management to evaluate performance of the business based on operating performance and the contribution of each of the business segments to that performance, while removing the fluctuations of unrealized income and expense, which may or may not be eventually realized at the levels presented and whose realizations depend more on future outcomes than current business operations. RI differs from net income by excluding (a) income tax expense, (b) operating results of our Consolidated Funds, (c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) the effects of changes arising from corporate actions, (e) unrealized gains and losses related to performance income and investment performance and (f) certain other items that we believe are not indicative of our operating performance. Changes arising from corporate actions include equity-based compensation expenses, the amortization of intangible assets, transaction costs associated with mergers, acquisitions and capital transactions, underwriting costs and expenses incurred in connection with corporate reorganization; SEC refers to the Securities and Exchange Commission; Senior Notes or the "AFC Notes" refers to senior notes issued by a wholly owned subsidiary of Ares Holdings; 6 Table of Contents "Series A Preferred Stock" refers to the preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company designated as 7.00% Series A Preferred Stock; and Term Loans refers to term loans held by wholly owned subsidiaries of Ares Management LLC ( AM LLC ). References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to (1) common shares and preferred shares refer to shares of our Class A common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock, respectively, previously outstanding prior to our Conversion and (2) common shareholders and preferred shareholders refer to holders of shares of our Class A common stock and shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, respectively, prior to our Conversion. Many of the terms used in this report, including AUM, FPAUM, FRE and RI, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. In addition, our definitions of AUM and FPAUM are not based on any definition of AUM or FPAUM that is set forth in the agreements governing the investment funds that we manage and may differ from definitions of AUM or FPAUM set forth in other agreements to which we are a party or definitions used by the SEC or other regulatory bodies. Further, FRE and RI are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. We use FRE and RI as measures of operating performance, not as measures of liquidity. FRE and RI should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for operating income, net income, operating cash flows, or other income or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP. The use of FRE and RI without consideration of related GAAP measures is not adequate due to the adjustments described above. Our management compensates for these limitations by using FRE and RI as supplemental measures to our GAAP results. We present these measures to provide a more complete understanding of our performance as our management measures it. Amounts and percentages throughout this report may reflect rounding adjustments and consequently totals may not appear to sum. 7 Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business BUSINESS Overview Ares is a leading global alternative investment manager with $148.9 billion of assets under management and over 1,200 employees in over 20 o ffices in more than 10 countries . We offer our investors a range of investment strategies and seek to deliver attractive performance to an investor base that includes over 850 direct institutional relationships and a significant retail investor base across our publicly traded and sub-advised funds. Since our inception in 1997, we have adhered to a disciplined investment philosophy that focuses on delivering strong risk-adjusted investment returns through market cycles. Ares believes each of its three distinct but complementary investment groups in Credit, Private Equity and Real Estate is a market leader based on assets under management and investment performance. We believe we create value for our stakeholders not only through our investment performance, but also by expanding our product offering, enhancing our distribution channels, increasing our global presence, investing in our non-investment functions, securing strategic partnerships and completing strategic acquisitions and portfolio purchases. Our AUM has grown to $148.9 billion as of December 31, 2019 from $34.0 billion a decade earlier. A s shown in the chart below, over the past five and ten years, our assets under management have achieved a compound annual growth rate ( CAGR ) of 13% and 16%, respectively ($ in billions): We have an established track record of delivering strong risk-adjusted returns through market cycles. We believe our consistent and strong performance in a broad range of alternative assets has been shaped by several distinguishing features of our platform: Comprehensive Multi-Asset Class Expertise and Flexible Capital: Our proficiency at evaluating every level of the capital structure, from senior debt to common equity, across companies, structured assets, infrastructure, power and energy assets, and real estate projects enables us to effectively assess relative value. This proficiency is complemented by our flexibility in deploying capital in a range of structures and different market environments to maximize risk-adjusted returns. Differentiated Market Intelligence: Our proprietary research on approximately 60 industries and insights from a broad, global investment portfolio enable us to more effectively diligence and structure our products and investments. 8 Table of Contents Consistent Investment Approach: We believe our rigorous, credit-oriented investment approach across each of our investment groups is a key contributor to our strong investment performance and ability to expand our product offering. Robust Sourcing Model: Our investment professionals local market presence and ability to effectively cross-source for other investment groups generates a robust pipeline of high-quality investment opportunities across our platform. Talented and Committed Professionals: We attract, develop and retain highly accomplished investment professionals who not only demonstrate deep and broad investment expertise but also have a strong sense of commitment to our firm. Collaborative Culture: We share ideas, relationships and information across our investment groups, which enables us to more effectively source, evaluate and manage investments. Integrated Investment Platform and Process We operate our firm as an integrated investment platform with a collaborative culture that emphasizes sharing of knowledge and expertise. We believe the exchange of information enhances our ability to analyze investments, deploy capital and improve the performance of our funds and portfolio companies. We have established deep and sophisticated independent research capabilities in approximately 60 industries and insights from active investments in over 1,700 companies, over 625 alternative credit investments and over 290 properties. In order to better collaborate on the information insights we possess across our investment platform, we formed a Global Markets Committee that meets monthly to share investing activities and market insights across our investment groups and the impact these market trends are having on our global investment strategies. Our extensive network of investment professionals includes local and geographically positioned individuals with the knowledge, experience and relationships that enable them to identify and take advantage of a wide range of investment opportunities. Our investment process leverages the power of the Ares platform and an extensive network of professionals across our investment areas to identify and source attractive risk adjusted return opportunities while emphasizing capital preservation. We utilize our collective market and company knowledge, proprietary internal industry and company research, third party information and financial modeling to drive fundamental credit analysis and investment selection. We are able to invest up and down a company s capital structure, which we believe helps us capitalize on out-performance opportunities and assess relative value for a particular investment. The investment committees of our investment groups review and evaluate investment opportunities in a framework that includes a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the key risks of each investment. We do not have a centralized investment committee and instead our investment committees are structured with overlapping membership from different investment groups to ensure consistency of approach and shared investment experience. In addition, each fund, account or other vehicle has investment policies and procedures that generally contain requirements and limitations, such as concentrations of securities, industries, and geographies in which a fund, account or other vehicle will invest, as well as other limitations required by law. Credit : Our experienced team takes a value-oriented approach and uses market technical analysis and fundamental research to identify investments that offer attractive value in comparison to the fundamental credit risk profile. We use our flexibility, structuring expertise and self-origination capabilities to invest across capital structures to best meet the full spectrum of our clients financing needs. Each investment decision involves an intensive due diligence process that includes research into the target company, its industry, its growth prospects and its ability to withstand adverse conditions, as appropriate. Members of our investment committees average approximately 25 years of relevant middle-market lending, alternative credit and liquid credit experience. Private Equity : Our private equity professionals have a demonstrated ability to deploy flexible capital, which allows them to stay both active and disciplined in various market environments. At the center of our investment process is a systematic approach that emphasizes rigorous due diligence at the company and market level in addition to a risk-adjusted return value assessment. Our investment process is comprised of a five-part process: (1) generate robust pipeline, (2) perform initial screening, (3) conduct due diligence, (4) seek investment approval, and (5) use a systematic approach to value creation. Our Private Equity Group employs a pull model with portfolio management whereby a team can access the Ares network for any number of value-creating levers that have been identified. Real Estate : With our experienced team, along with our expansive network of relationships, our Real Estate Group invests in opportunities across both real estate equity and debt investing. Our Real Estate Group's equity investments focus on implementing hands-on value creation initiatives to mismanaged and capital-starved assets, as well as new 9 Table of Contents development, ultimately selling stabilized assets back into the market. Our debt strategies leverage our Real Estate Group's diverse sources of capital to directly originate and manage commercial mortgage investments on properties that range from stabilized to requiring hands-on value creation. Our Real Estate Group's activities are managed by dedicated equity and debt teams in the U.S. and Europe. Our investment process includes a rigorous analysis of property cash flows, local real estate fundamentals, demographics, industry, market and tenanting trends, among other criteria. By identifying key risks, appropriate pricing and structure is determined based on market, credit-worthiness of tenants or other deal-specific risks identified early in the process. We also recognize the importance of considering environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) factors in our investment process and have adopted an ESG policy for the conduct of our business. We work collaboratively with our various underwriting, asset management, legal and compliance teams to appropriately integrate relevant ESG considerations into our investment process. Breadth, Depth and Tenure of our Senior Management Ares was built upon the fundamental principle that each of our distinct but complementary investment groups benefits from being part of our broader platform. We believe that our strong performance, consistent growth and high talent retention through economic cycles is due largely to the effective application of this principle across our broad organization of over 1,200 employees. The management of our operating businesses is currently overseen by our Executive Management Committee which typically meets weekly to discuss strategy and operational matters. The members of the Executive Management Committee are Michael Arougheti, David Kaplan, Antony Ressler, Bennett Rosenthal, Ryan Berry, R. Kipp deVeer and Michael McFerran. We also have a Management Committee comprised of senior leadership from our investment, investor relations, marketing and business operations teams, which meets periodically to discuss our business, including investment and operating performance, fundraising, market conditions, strategic initiatives and other firm matters. Each of our investment groups is led by its own deep leadership team of highly accomplished investment professionals, who average approximately 25 years of experience managing investments in, advising, underwriting and restructuring companies. While primarily focused on managing strategies within their own investment group, these senior professionals are integrated within our platform through economic, cultural and structural measures. Our senior professionals have the opportunity to participate in the incentive programs of multiple investment groups to reward collaboration across our investment activities. This collaboration takes place on a daily basis and is formally promoted through internal systems and widely attended weekly or monthly meetings. 10 Table of Contents 2019 Highlights Fundraising In 2019, we raised $23.8 billion in gross new capital for more than 75 different funds. Of the $23.8 billion, $16.2 billion was raised directly from 151 institutional investors (100 existing and 51 new to Ares) and $7.6 billion was raised through intermediaries. The charts below summarize our gross new capital commitments by investment group and strategy ($ in billions): Credit: $17.5 Private Equity $3.2 Real Estate: $3.1 U.S. Direct Lending Syndicated Loans Alternative Credit Special Opportunities Corporate Private Equity Energy Opportunities Real Estate Debt European Real Estate Equity U.S. Real Estate Equity European D