ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 32 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 32 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 32 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 32 PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 33 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 34 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 35 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 46 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 47 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 89 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 89 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 90 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 90 PART III. ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 91 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 91 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 91 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 91 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 91 PART IV. ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 92 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 100 SIGNATURES 101 1 Table of Contents PART I The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and particularly in Item 1: Business, Item 1A: Risk Factors, Item 3: Legal Proceedings and Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, expect, estimate, seek, plan, believe, could, intend, will, and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements may include projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights; any backlog; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on management s judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are summarized and disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our, and us mean Broadcom Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to October 31 in a 52-week year and the first Sunday in November in a 53-week year. We refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they end. For example, the fiscal year ended October 30, 2022 was a 52-week year. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a global technology leader that designs, develops and supplies a broad range of semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions. Our over 50-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from Hewlett-Packard Company, AT T, LSI Corporation, Broadcom Corporation, Brocade Communications Systems LLC, CA, Inc. and Symantec Enterprise Security. Over the years, we have assembled a large team of semiconductor and software design engineers around the world. We maintain design, product and software development engineering resources at locations in the U.S., Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We strategically focus our research and development resources to address niche opportunities in our target markets and leverage our extensive portfolio of U.S. and other patents, and other intellectual property ( IP ) to integrate multiple technologies and create system-on-chip ( SoC ) component and software solutions that target growth opportunities. We design products and software that deliver high-performance and provide mission critical functionality. We develop semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor ( CMOS ) based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation in the semiconductor industry and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes ( STB ), broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. Our infrastructure software solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage, and secure applications across mainframe, distributed, mobile, and cloud platforms. Many of the largest companies in the world, including most of the Fortune 500, and many government agencies rely on our software solutions to help manage and secure their on-premise and hybrid cloud environments. Our portfolio of industry-leading infrastructure and security software is designed to modernize, optimize, and secure the most complex hybrid environments, enabling scalability, agility, automation, insights, resiliency and security. We also offer mission critical fibre channel storage area networking ( FC SAN ) products and related software in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. Business Strategy Our strategy is to combine best-of-breed technology leadership in semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions, with unmatched scale, on a common sales and administrative platform to deliver a comprehensive suite of infrastructure technology products to the world s leading business and government customers. We seek to achieve this through responsibly financed acquisitions of category-leading businesses and technologies, as well as investing extensively in research and development, to ensure our products retain their technology leadership. This strategy results in a robust business model designed to drive diversified and sustainable operating and financial results. Products and Markets Semiconductor Solutions Semiconductors are made by imprinting a network of electronic components onto a semiconductor wafer. These devices are designed to perform various functions such as processing, amplifying and selectively filtering electronic signals, controlling electronic system functions and processing, and transmitting and storing data. Our digital and mixed signal products are based on silicon wafers with CMOS transistors offering fast switching speeds and low power consumption, which are both critical design factors for the markets we serve. We also offer analog products, which are based on III-V semiconductor materials that have higher electrical conductivity than silicon, and thus tend to have better performance characteristics in radio frequency ( RF ), and optoelectronic applications. III-V refers to elements from the 3rd and 5th groups in the periodic table of chemical elements. Examples of these materials used in our products are gallium arsenide ( GaAs ) and indium phosphide ( InP ). We provide semiconductor solutions for managing the movement of data in data center, service provider, enterprise and embedded networking applications. We provide a broad variety of RF semiconductor devices, wireless connectivity solutions, custom touch controllers and inductive charging solutions for the wireless market. We also provide semiconductor solutions for enabling the STB and broadband access applications and for enabling secure movement of digital data to and from host machines, such as servers, personal computers and storage systems, to the underlying storage devices, such as hard disk drives ( HDD ) and solid-state drives ( SSD ). Our product portfolio ranges from discrete devices to complex sub-systems that include multiple device types and may also incorporate firmware for interfacing between analog and digital systems. In some cases, our products include mechanical hardware that interfaces with optoelectronic or capacitive sensors. We focus on markets that require high quality and the 3 Table of Contents technology leadership and integrated performance characteristic of our products. The table below presents our material semiconductor product families and their major end markets and applications during fiscal year 2022. Major End Markets Major Applications Material Product Families Broadband STB and Broadband Access STB SoCs DSL/PON gateways DOCSIS cable modem DSLAM/PON optical line termination Wi-Fi access point SoCs Networking Data Center, Service Provider, Enterprise and Embedded Networking Ethernet switching and routing merchant silicon Embedded processors and controllers Custom silicon solutions Optical and copper PHYs Fiber optic transmitter and receiver components Wireless Mobile Device Connectivity RF front end modules and filters Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS/GNSS SoCs Custom touch controllers Inductive charging ASICs Storage Servers and Storage Systems SAS and RAID controllers and adapters PCIe switches Fibre channel host bus adapters Ethernet NIC HDD and SSD Read channel based SoCs; Custom flash controllers Preamplifiers Industrial Factory Automation, Renewable Energy and Automotive Electronics Optocouplers Industrial fiber optics Motion control encoders and subsystems Light emitting diode Ethernet PHYs, switch ICs and camera microcontrollers Set-Top Box Solutions: We offer complete SoC platform solutions for cable, satellite, Internet Protocol television, over-the-top and terrestrial STBs. Our products enable global service providers to introduce new and enhanced technologies and services in STBs, including transcoding, digital video recording functionality, higher definition video processing, increased networking capabilities, and more tuners to enable faster channel change and more simultaneous recordings. We are also enabling service providers in deploying High Efficiency Video Coding ( HEVC ), a video compression format that is a successor to the H.264/MPEG-4 format. HEVC enables ultra-high definition ( Ultra HD ), services by effectively doubling the capacity of existing networks to deploy new or existing content. Our families of STB solutions support the complete range of resolutions, from standard definition, to high definition, and Ultra HD. Broadband Access Solutions: We offer complete SoC platform solutions for digital subscriber line ( DSL ), cable, passive optical networking ( PON ) and wireless local area network for both consumer premise equipment ( CPE ) and central office ( CO ) deployments. Our CPE devices are used in broadband modems, residential gateways and Wi-Fi access points and routers. Our CO devices, including DSL Access Multiplexer ( DSLAM ), cable modem termination systems and PON optical line termination medium access controller, are empowering modern operator broadband infrastructure. Our products enable global service providers to continue to deploy next generation broadband access technologies across multiple standards, including G.fast, Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications ( DOCSIS ), PON and Wi-Fi to provide more bandwidth and faster speeds to consumers. Ethernet Switching Routing: Ethernet is a ubiquitous interconnection technology that enables high performance and cost effective networking infrastructure. We offer a broad set of Ethernet switching and routing products that are optimized for data center, service provider network, enterprise network, and embedded network applications. In the data center market, our high capacity, low latency, switching silicon supports advanced protocols around virtualization and multi-pathing. Our Ethernet switching fabric technologies provide the ability to build highly scalable flat networks supporting tens of thousands of servers. Our service provider switch portfolio enables carrier/service provider networks to support a large number of services in the wireless backhaul, access, aggregation and core of their networks. For enterprise networks and embedded Ethernet applications, we offer product families that combine multi-layer switching capabilities and support lower power modes that comply with industry standards around energy efficient Ethernet. 4 Table of Contents Embedded Processors Controllers: Our embedded processors leverage our ARM central processing unit and Ethernet switching technology to deliver SoCs for high performance embedded applications in a wide range of communication products such as voice-over-internet-protocol, telephony, point-of-sale devices and enterprise and retail access points and gateways. We offer a range of knowledge-based processors to enable high-performance decision-making for packet processing in a variety of advanced devices in the enterprise, metro, access, edge and core networking spaces. We also offer a range of Ethernet controllers for servers and storage systems supporting multiple generations of Ethernet technology. Custom Silicon Solutions: We provide advanced technology and IP platforms for customers to design and develop application specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ), targeting data center compute offload, legacy and new 5G radio infrastructure, and wired communication networks. Our custom silicon provides the platform to integrate embedded logic, memory, serializer/deserializer ( SerDes ) technology, IP cores and processor cores. The ASICs are custom products built to individual customers specifications. Physical Layer Devices: These devices, also referred to as PHYs, are transceivers that enable the reception and transmission of Ethernet data packets over a physical medium such as copper wire or optical fibers. Our high performance Ethernet transceivers are built upon a proprietary digital signal processing communication architecture optimized for high-speed network connections and support the latest standards and advanced features, such as energy efficient Ethernet, data encryption and time synchronization. We also offer a range of automotive Ethernet products, including PHYs, switches and camera microcontrollers, to meet growing consumer demand for in-vehicle connectivity and smart vision. Fiber Optic Components: We supply a wide array of optical components to the Ethernet networking, storage, and access, metro- and long-haul telecommunication markets. Our optical components enable the high speed reception and transmission of data through optical fibers. RF Semiconductor Devices: Our RF semiconductor devices selectively filter, as well as amplify and route, RF signals. Filters enable modern wireless communication systems to support a large number of subscribers simultaneously by ensuring that the multiple transmissions and receptions of voice and data streams do not interfere with each other. We were among the first to deliver commercial film bulk acoustic resonator ( FBAR ) filters that offer technological advantages over competing filter technologies, to allow mobile handsets to function more efficiently in today's congested RF spectrum. FBAR technology has a significant market share within the cellular handset market. Our RF products include multi-chip module front-end modules that integrate transmit/receive switching and filtering functions for multiple frequency bands, filter modules and discrete filters, all using our proprietary FBAR technology. Our expertise in FBAR technology, amplifier design, and module integration enables us to offer industry-leading performance in cellular RF transceiver applications. Connectivity Solutions: Our connectivity solutions include discrete and integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth solutions, and global positioning system/global navigation satellite system ( GPS/GNSS ) receivers, designed for use in mobile devices including smartphones, tablets and wearable products. Wi-Fi allows devices on a local area network to communicate wirelessly, adding the convenience of mobility to the utility of high-speed data networks. We offer a family of high performance, low power Wi-Fi chipsets. Bluetooth is a low power technology that enables direct connectivity between devices. We offer a complete family of Bluetooth silicon and software solutions that enable manufacturers to easily and cost-effectively add Bluetooth functionality to virtually any device. These solutions include combination chips that offer integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth functionality, which provides significant performance advantages over discrete solutions. We also offer a family of GPS, assisted-GPS and GNSS semiconductor products, software and data services. These products are part of a broader location platform that leverages a broad range of communications technologies, including Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS, to provide more accurate location and navigation capabilities. Custom Touch Controllers: Our touch controllers process signals from touch screens in mobile handsets and tablets. Inductive Charging ASICs: Our custom inductive charging ASIC devices offer high efficiency and are highly integrated solutions for mobile and wearable devices. SAS, RAID PCIe Products: We provide serial attached small computer system interface ( SAS ) and redundant array of independent disks ( RAID ) controller and adapter solutions to server and storage system original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). These solutions enable secure and high speed data transmission between a host computer, such as a server, and storage peripheral devices, such as HDD, SSD and optical disk drives and disk and tape-based storage systems. Some of these solutions are delivered as stand-alone semiconductors, typically as a controller. Other solutions are delivered as circuit boards, known as adapter products, which incorporate our semiconductors onto a circuit board with other features. RAID technology is a critical part of our server storage connectivity solutions as it provides protection against the loss of critical data resulting from HDD failures. 5 Table of Contents We also provide interconnect semiconductors that support the peripheral component interconnect express ( PCIe ) communication standards. PCIe is the primary interconnection mechanism inside computing systems today. Fibre Channel Products: We provide fibre channel host bus adapters, which connect host computers such as servers to FC SANs. Ethernet Network Interface Card ( NIC ) Controllers: Our Ethernet NIC controllers are designed for high-performance virtualization, intelligent flow processing, secure data center connectivity, and machine learning. HDD SSD Products: We provide read channel-based SoCs and preamplifiers to HDD OEMs. These are the critical chips required to read, write and protect data. An HDD SoC is an integrated circuit ( IC ) that combines the functionality of a read channel, serial interface, memory and a hard disk controller in a small, high-performance, low-power and cost-effective package. Read channels convert analog signals that are generated by reading the stored data on the physical media into digital signals. In addition, we sell preamplifiers, which are complex, high speed, mixed signal devices that enable writing and reading data to and from the HDD heads. The preamplifier interfaces with the SoC to provide the electronics data path in a HDD. We also provide custom flash controllers to SSD OEMs. An SSD stores data in flash memory instead of on a hard disk, providing high speed access to the data. Flash controllers manage the underlying flash memory in SSDs, performing critical functions such as reading and writing data to and from the flash memory and performing error correction, wear leveling and bad block management. Industrial End Markets: We also provide a broad variety of products for the general industrial and automotive markets, including optocouplers, industrial fiber optics, motion encoders, light emitting diode devices, and Ethernet ICs. Our industrial products are used in a diverse set of applications, spanning industrial automation, power generation and distribution systems, medical systems and equipment, defense and aerospace, and vehicle subsystems including those used in electric vehicle powertrain, infotainment and advanced driver assistance system. Infrastructure Software Our infrastructure software solutions enables customers greater choice and flexibility to build, run, manage, connect and protect applications at scale across diversified and distributed environments. Our mainframe software provides market-leading DevOps, AIOps, Security and Data Management Systems solutions. We help enterprises embrace open tools and technologies, integrate their mainframe into their cloud infrastructures, and amplify the value of their mainframe investments. By partnering with our customers and providing creative value-added programs, we help customers overcome challenges related to skills development, technical education, strategy and planning, and the need for cloud-like pricing flexibility to support their overall business success with the platform. Our distributed software solutions enable global enterprises to optimize the planning, development and delivery of software, powering their business critical digital services. Our solutions are designed to enable customers to innovate, improve customer experience, and drive profitability by aligning business, development, and operational teams. Our products, organized in the domains of ValueOps, DevOps, and AIOps, deliver end-to-end visibility across all stages of the digital lifecycle and help our customers realize better business outcomes and better experiences for their customers. Our Symantec cyber security software solutions help organizations and governments secure against threats and compliance risks by protecting their users and data on any app, device, or network. Our integrated cyber defense approach simplifies cyber security with comprehensive solutions designed to secure critical business assets across on-premises and cloud infrastructures. Our Symantec solutions utilize rich threat intelligence from a global network of security engineers, threat analyst and researchers, as well as advanced artificial intelligence ( AI ) and machine-learning engines, enabling customers to protect data, connect authorized users with trusted applications, and detect and respond to the most advanced targeted attacks. We also offer mission critical FC SAN products designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of managing business information within a shared data storage environment, enabling high levels of availability of mission critical applications in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. We deliver reliable and simplified management of these FC SAN products through our software-based management tools designed to maximize uptime, dramatically simplify storage area networking deployment and management, and provide high levels of visibility and insight into the storage network. 6 Table of Contents The table below presents our software portfolios and their material offerings during fiscal year 2022. Software Portfolio Portfolio Description Major Portfolio Offerings Mainframe Software Solutions for DevOps, AIOps, Security and Database Management Systems Operational Analytics Management Automation Database Database Management Application Development Testing Identity Access Management Compliance Data Protection Security Insights Distributed Software Solutions that optimize the planning, development and delivery of business critical services ValueOps DevOps AIOps Symantec Cyber Security Comprehensive threat protection and compliance solutions that secure against threats and compliance risks by protecting users and data on any app, device, or network Endpoint Security Network Security Information Security Identity Security FC SAN Management Solutions that transforms current storage networks with autonomous SAN capabilities Fibre Channel Switch Payment Security Arcot payment authentication network powered by 3-D Secure Payment Security Suite Operational Analytics Management : These solutions combine big data, machine learning and AI with mainframe expertise to deliver meaningful and actionable insights to augment and automate day-to-day operations and deliver exceptional customer experiences. Automation : These solutions reduce manual effort by enabling customers to proactively optimize resources and orchestrate automation across enterprise applications and systems. Databases Database Management : These high-performance databases and management tools store, organize, and manage mainframe data to ensure optimal performance, efficient administration, and reliability of critical systems. Application Development Testing : These solutions enable customers to accelerate software delivery while increasing code quality through the use of our agile processes and tools, and DevOps solutions. Our open-first strategy helps customers modernize their mainframe environment through the use of open source and open application programming technologies across people, process, tooling and applications, resulting in greater synergy and alignment with their corporate information technology ( IT ). Identity Access Management : These solutions manage mainframe access and elevate it with modern practices such as multi-factor authentication, managing access for privileged users, and supporting all external security managers. Compliance Data Protection : These solutions locate and protect sensitive mainframe data to ensure compliance and identify risk, identify and proactively respond to potential risks and bad actors, and reduce risk and lighten security management load with automated identification and authorization cleanup. Security Insights Platform : This solution helps ensure a trusted environment for customers and their employees by quickly interpreting and assessing mainframe security posture, identifying risks and developing remediation steps on an ongoing and ad hoc basis. This data is available for use with in-house tools for security information and event management. ValueOps : This solution delivers value stream management capabilities that enable customers to schedule, track, and manage work throughout its lifecycle from investment planning to execution. It aligns business and development teams across the enterprise, increasing transparency, reducing inefficiencies, and improving time to value. DevOps: This solution offers capabilities that empower users of our agile processes and tools to track development progress and deploy releases confidently with assurance of feature completeness, high-quality and reduced risk. Key stakeholders have a single view of key insights into release progress, health, quality, and defect trends, and metrics that drive focus, gauge readiness, and help to ensure successful, quality releases. AIOps: This solution combines application, infrastructure and network monitoring and correlation with intelligent remediation capabilities to help customers create more resilient production environments and improve customer experience. 7 Table of Contents Endpoint Security: Endpoints are the critical last line of defense against cyber attackers. Our Symantec endpoint security solutions prevent, detect and respond to emerging threats across all devices and operating systems including laptops, desktops, tablets, mobile phones, servers and cloud workloads through an intelligent AI driven security console and single agent. Network Security: Email and web access are the lifeblood and essential communication means for every modern organization. We have a full array of network security solutions, as well as a shared set of advanced threat protection technologies to stop inbound and outbound threats targeting end users, information and key infrastructure. Information Security: Information protection and compliance is critical to managing risk. We offer integrated information security solutions, based on an efficient, single-policy that can be applied across the entire environment, to help organizations identify and protect risky users, applications and their most sensitive data everywhere across endpoints, on-premises networks, cloud services and private applications. Identity Security: User identities are under attack by cyber criminals hoping to exploit their access and privileges and do harm. We mitigate these attacks by positively identifying legitimate users, enforcing granular access control policies, and streamlining access governance to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive resources and data. Fibre Channel Switch P