ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 32 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 32 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 32 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 32 PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER SALE AND PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 33 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 35 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 36 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 53 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 55 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 105 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 105 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 106 PART III. ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 107 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 107 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS 107 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 107 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 107 PART IV. ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 108 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 117 SIGNATURES 118 1 Table of Contents PART I The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws and particularly in Item 1: Business, Item 1A: Risk Factors, Item 3: Legal Proceedings and Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, expect, estimate, seek, plan, believe, could, intend, will, and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements may include projections of financial information; statements about historical results that may suggest trends for our business; statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations; statements of expectation or belief regarding future events (including any acquisitions we may make), technology developments, our products, product sales, expenses, liquidity, cash flow and growth rates, or enforceability of our intellectual property rights; and the effects of seasonality on our business. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections of our industry performance and macroeconomic conditions, based on management s judgment, beliefs, current trends and market conditions, and involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. We derive most of our forward-looking statements from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based upon many detailed assumptions. While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are summarized and disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financial information and results of operations presented relate to (1) Broadcom Inc. for the periods after April 4, 2018 and (2) Broadcom Limited, our predecessor, for the period prior to April 4, 2018. Similarly, unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to Broadcom, we, our and us mean Broadcom Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries after April 4, 2018 and, prior to that time, our predecessor. Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to October 31 in a 52-week year and the first Sunday in November in a 53-week year. We refer to our fiscal years by the calendar year in which they end. For example, the fiscal year ended November 1, 2020 was a 52-week year. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Broadcom Inc. ( Broadcom ) is the successor to Broadcom Pte. Ltd. (formerly Broadcom Limited), a Singapore company, as a result of our redomiciliation to the United States on April 4, 2018. We are a global technology leader that designs, develops and supplies a broad range of semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions. Our over 50-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from Hewlett-Packard Company, AT T, LSI Corporation, Broadcom Corporation ( BRCM ), Brocade Communications Systems LLC ( Brocade ), CA, Inc. ( CA ) and Symantec Enterprise Security. Over the years, we have assembled a large team of semiconductor and software design engineers around the world. We maintain design, product and software development engineering resources at locations in the U.S., Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We strategically focus our research and development resources to address niche opportunities in our target markets and leverage our extensive portfolio of U.S. and other patents, and other intellectual property ( IP ) to integrate multiple technologies and create system-on-chip ( SoC ) component and software solutions that target growth opportunities. We design products and software that deliver high-performance and provide mission-critical functionality. We develop semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor ( CMOS ) based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation in the semiconductor industry and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. Our infrastructure software solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage, and secure applications across mainframe, distributed, mobile, and cloud platforms. Many of the largest companies in the world, including most of the Fortune 500, and many government agencies rely on our software solutions to help manage and secure their on-premise and hybrid cloud environments. Our portfolio of mainframe and BizOps software solutions enables customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments. Our Symantec cyber security solutions portfolio, include endpoint, network, information and identity security solutions. We also offer mission critical fibre channel storage area networking ( FC SAN ) products and related software in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. Recent Developments Acquisition of Symantec s Enterprise Security Business On November 4, 2019, we completed the purchase of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the Symantec Corporation Enterprise Security business (the Symantec Business ) for $10.7 billion in cash, on a cash-free, debt-free basis. The addition of the Symantec Business significantly expanded our infrastructure software solutions as we continue to build one of the world s leading infrastructure technology companies. Segment Reporting We updated our organizational structure during the fiscal year ended November 1, 2020 ( fiscal year 2020 ), resulting in two reportable segments: semiconductor solutions and infrastructure software. Each segment represents a component for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief operating decision maker in determining how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. The reportable segments are determined based on several factors including, but not limited to, customer base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics. Our semiconductor solutions segment includes all of our semiconductor solution product lines, as well as our IP licensing. Our infrastructure software segment includes our mainframe, BizOps and cyber security software solutions, and our FC SAN business. See discussion in the Results of Operations section included in Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13. Segment Information included in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional segment information. For fiscal year 2020, net revenue included contributions from Symantec Business commencing on November 4, 2019, which are included in the infrastructure software segment. For fiscal year ended November 3, 2019 ( fiscal year 2019 ), net revenue included contributions from CA commencing on November 5, 2018, which are included in the infrastructure software segment. For the fiscal year ended November 4, 2018 ( fiscal year 2018 ), net revenue included contributions from Brocade commencing on November 17, 2017, which are primarily included in the infrastructure software segment. 3 Table of Contents Business Strategy Our strategy is to combine best-of-breed technology leadership in semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions, with unmatched scale, on a common sales and administrative platform to deliver a comprehensive suite of infrastructure technology products to the world s leading business and government customers. We seek to achieve this through responsibly financed acquisitions of category-leading businesses and technologies, as well as investing extensively in research and development, to ensure our products retain their technology leadership. This strategy results in a robust business model designed to drive diversified and sustainable operating and financial results. Products and Markets Semiconductor Solutions Semiconductors are made by imprinting a network of electronic components onto a semiconductor wafer. These devices are designed to perform various functions such as processing, amplifying and selectively filtering electronic signals, controlling electronic system functions and processing, and transmitting and storing data. Our digital and mixed signal products are based on silicon wafers with CMOS transistors offering fast switching speeds and low power consumption, which are both critical design factors for the markets we serve. We also offer analog products, which are based on III-V semiconductor materials that have higher electrical conductivity than silicon, and thus tend to have better performance characteristics in radio frequency ( RF ), and optoelectronic applications. III-V refers to elements from the 3rd and 5th groups in the periodic table of chemical elements. Examples of these materials used in our products are gallium arsenide ( GaAs ) and indium phosphide ( InP ). We provide semiconductor solutions for managing the movement of data in data center, telecom, enterprise and embedded networking applications. We provide a broad variety of RF semiconductor devices, wireless connectivity solutions and custom touch controllers for the wireless market. We also provide semiconductor solutions for enabling the set-top box and broadband access applications and for enabling secure movement of digital data to and from host machines, such as servers, personal computers and storage systems, to the underlying storage devices, such as hard disk drives and solid-state drives. Our product portfolio ranges from discrete devices to complex sub-systems that include multiple device types and may also incorporate firmware for interfacing between analog and digital systems. In some cases, our products include mechanical hardware that interfaces with optoelectronic or capacitive sensors. We focus on markets that require high quality and the technology leadership and integrated performance characteristic of our products. The table below presents our material semiconductor product families and their major end markets and applications during fiscal year 2020. Major End Markets Major Applications Material Product Families Broadband Set-top Box ( STB ) and Broadband Access STB SoCs Cable, digital subscriber line ( DSL ) and passive optical networking ( PON ) central office/consumer premise equipment ( CO/CPE ) SoCs Wireless local area network ( WLAN ) access point SoCs Networking Data center, Telecom, Enterprise and Embedded Networking Ethernet switching and routing merchant silicon Embedded processors and controllers Serializer/Deserializer ( SerDes ), application specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ) Optical and copper, physical layer ( PHYs ) Fiber optic transmitter and receiver components Wireless Mobile handsets RF front end modules ( FEMs ), filters, power amplifiers Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, global positioning system/global navigation satellite system ( GPS/GNSS ) SoCs Custom touch controllers Storage Servers and storage systems Serial attached small computer system interface ( SAS ) and redundant array of independent disks ( RAID ) controllers and adapters Peripheral component interconnect express ( PCIe ) switches Fibre channel host bus adapters ( HBA ) Hard disk drives ( HDD ); Solid-state drives ( SSD ) Read channel based SoCs; Custom flash controllers Preamplifiers Industrial Power isolation, power conversion and renewable energy systems Optocouplers Factory automation, in-car infotainment and renewable energy systems Industrial fiber optics Motor controls and factory automation Motion control encoders and subsystems Displays and lighting Light emitting diode ( LEDs ) 4 Table of Contents Set-Top Box Solutions: We offer complete SoC platform solutions for cable, satellite, Internet Protocol television, over-the-top and terrestrial STBs. Our products enable global service providers to introduce new and enhanced technologies and services in STBs, including transcoding, digital video recording functionality, higher definition video processing, increased networking capabilities, and more tuners to enable faster channel change and more simultaneous recordings. We are also enabling service providers in deploying High Efficiency Video Coding ( HEVC ), a video compression format that is a successor to the H.264/MPEG-4 format. HEVC enables ultra-high definition ( Ultra HD ), services by effectively doubling the capacity of existing networks to deploy new or existing content. Our families of STB solutions support the complete range of resolutions, from standard definition, to high definition, and Ultra HD. Broadband Access Solutions: We offer complete SoC platform solutions for DSL, cable, PON and WLAN for both CPE and CO deployments. Our CPE devices are used in broadband modems, residential gateways and Wi-Fi access points and routers. Our CO devices, including DSL Access Multiplexer, cable modem termination systems and PON optical line termination medium access controller, are empowering modern operator broadband infrastructure. Our products enable global service providers to continue to deploy next generation broadband access technologies across multiple standards, including G.Fast, data over cable service interface specification, PON and Wi-Fi to provide more bandwidth and faster speeds to consumers. Ethernet Switching Routing: Ethernet is a ubiquitous interconnection technology that enables high performance and cost effective networking infrastructure. We offer a broad set of Ethernet switching and routing products that are optimized for data center, service provider network, enterprise network, and embedded network applications. In the data center market, our high capacity, low latency, switching silicon supports advanced protocols around virtualization and multi-pathing. Our Ethernet switching fabric technologies provide the ability to build highly scalable flat networks supporting tens of thousands of servers. Our service provider switch portfolio enables carrier/service provider networks to support a large number of services in the wireless backhaul, access, aggregation and core of their networks. For enterprise networks and embedded Ethernet applications, we offer product families that combine multi-layer switching capabilities and support lower power modes that comply with industry standards around energy efficient Ethernet. Embedded Processors Controllers: Our embedded processors leverage our ARM central processing unit and Ethernet switching technology to deliver SoCs for high performance embedded applications in a wide range of communication products such as voice-over-internet-protocol, telephony, point-of-sale devices and enterprise and retail access points and gateways. We offer a range of knowledge-based processors to enable high-performance decision-making for packet processing in a variety of advanced devices in the enterprise, metro, access, edge and core networking spaces. We also offer a range of Ethernet controllers for servers and storage systems supporting multiple generations of Ethernet technology. SerDes ASICs: For data center and enterprise networking, and high performance computing applications, we supply high speed SerDes technology integrated into ASICs. These ASICs are custom products built to individual customers specifications. Our ASICs are designed on advanced CMOS process technologies, focused primarily on leading edge geometries. Physical Layer Devices: These devices, also referred to as PHYs, are transceivers that enable the reception and transmission of Ethernet data packets over a physical medium such as copper wire or optical fibers. Our high performance Ethernet transceivers are built upon a proprietary digital signal processing communication architecture optimized for high-speed network connections and support the latest standards and advanced features, such as energy efficient Ethernet, data encryption and time synchronization. We also offer a range of automotive Ethernet products to meet growing consumer demand for in-vehicle connectivity. Fiber Optic Components: We supply a wide array of optical components to the Ethernet networking, storage, and access, metro- and long-haul telecommunication markets. Our optical components enable the high speed reception and transmission of data through optical fibers. RF Semiconductor Devices: Our RF semiconductor devices selectively filter, as well as amplify, RF signals. Filters enable modern wireless communication systems to support a large number of subscribers simultaneously by ensuring that the multiple transmissions and receptions of voice and data streams do not interfere with each other. We were among the first to deliver commercial film bulk acoustic resonator ( FBAR ) filters that offer technological advantages over competing filter technologies, to allow mobile handsets to function more efficiently in today's congested RF spectrum. FBAR technology has a significant market share within the cellular handset market. Our RF products include FEMs that incorporate multiple die into multi-function RF devices, duplexers and multiplexers, which are a combination of two or more transmit and receive filters in a single device, using our proprietary FBAR technology, discrete filters and discrete power amplifiers. Our expertise in FBAR technology, amplifier design, and module integration enables us to offer industry-leading performance in cellular RF transceiver applications. Our proprietary GaAs wafer manufacturing processes are critical to the production of power amplifier and low noise amplifier products. 5 Table of Contents Connectivity Solutions: Our connectivity solutions include discrete and integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth solutions, and satellite-based GPS/GNSS mobile navigation receivers. Wi-Fi allows devices on a local area network to communicate wirelessly, adding the convenience of mobility to the utility of high-speed data networks. We offer a family of high performance, low power Wi-Fi chipsets. Bluetooth is a low power technology that enables direct connectivity between devices. We offer a complete family of Bluetooth silicon and software solutions that enable manufacturers to easily and cost-effectively add Bluetooth functionality to virtually any device. These solutions include combination chips that offer integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth functionality, which provides significant performance advantages over discrete solutions. We also offer a family of GPS, assisted-GPS and GNSS semiconductor products, software and data services. These products are part of a broader location platform that leverages a broad range of communications technologies, including Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and GPS, to provide more accurate location and navigation capabilities. Custom Touch Controllers: Our touch controllers process signals from touch screens in mobile handsets and tablets. SAS, RAID PCIe Products: We provide SAS and RAID controller and adapter solutions to server and storage system original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). These solutions enable secure and high speed data transmission between a host computer, such as a server, and storage peripheral devices, such as HDD, SSD and optical disk drives and disk and tape-based storage systems. Some of these solutions are delivered as stand-alone semiconductors, typically as a controller. Other solutions are delivered as circuit boards, known as adapter products, which incorporate our semiconductors onto a circuit board with other features. RAID technology is a critical part of our server storage connectivity solutions as it provides protection against the loss of critical data resulting from HDD failures. We also provide interconnect semiconductors that support the PCI and PCIe communication standards. PCIe is the primary interconnection mechanism inside computing systems today. Fibre Channel Products: We provide Fibre Channel HBAs, which connect host computers such as servers to FC SANs. HDD SSD Products: We provide read channel-based SoCs and preamplifiers to HDD OEMs. These are the critical chips required to read, write and protect data. An HDD SoC is an integrated circuit that combines the functionality of a read channel, serial interface, memory and a hard disk controller in a small, high-performance, low-power and cost-effective package. Read channels convert analog signals that are generated by reading the stored data on the physical media into digital signals. In addition, we sell preamplifiers, which are used to amplify the initial signal to and from the drive disk heads so the signal can be processed by the read channel. We also provide custom flash controllers to SSD OEMs. An SSD stores data in flash memory instead of on a hard disk, providing high speed access to the data. Flash controllers manage the underlying flash memory in SSDs, performing critical functions such as reading and writing data to and from the flash memory and performing error correction, wear leveling and bad block management. Industrial End Markets: We also provide a broad variety of products for the general industrial and automotive markets. We offer optocouplers, which provide electrical insulation and signal isolation for signaling systems that are susceptible to electrical noise or interference. Optocouplers are used in a diverse set of applications, including industrial motors, automotive systems including those used in hybrid engines, power generation and distribution systems, switching power supplies, motion sensors, telecommunications equipment, computers and office equipment, plasma displays, and military electronics. We also provide industrial fiber optics, motion encoders and LED products. Infrastructure Software Our portfolio of mission critical software solutions enables customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights, resiliency and security in managing business processes and technology investments. Broadcom mainframe software solutions, which consist of security and infrastructure management solutions, help enterprises embrace open tools and technologies, integrate their mainframe into their cloud infrastructures and speed software delivery with the next generation of cross-platform innovations. We combine advanced technology solutions with creative, value-add programs that help foster skills development, inform strategy and planning, and provide flexibility in licensing fees. This unique approach, rooted in a deep commitment to partnership with our customers, is designed to fuel our customers productivity, boost operational efficiency, advance enterprise security, and support our customers overall business success. 6 Table of Contents BizOps software solutions enable large global organizations to transform into digital businesses by providing an end-to-end digital infrastructure management platform that delivers speed, agility and the ability to optimize for risk across multi-cloud hybrid environments and workloads. More specifically, these products offer unique solutions that help with application development, testing and deployment, and operations and automation. We are able to leverage our core strengths and development efforts to create products and enterprise software solutions that bring new innovation to our mainframe software solutions and vice versa, spanning three strategic portfolios: ValueOps, DevOps and AIOps. Our Symantec cyber security software solutions span endpoint, network, information and identity security, helping customers secure identities and information stored wherever the data resides, including on mobile devices, in the cloud and on-premises. Through our Symantec Integrated Cyber Defense platform, we provide a unified approach that allows customers to protect, defend and respond to sophisticated attacks across endpoints, identities, and infrastructure, whether on-premises, in the cloud, or hybrid. We also offer mission critical FC SAN products designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of managing business information within a shared data storage environment, enabling high levels of availability of mission critical applications in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products. We deliver reliable and simplified management of these FC SAN products through our software-based management tools designed to maximize uptime, dramatically simplify storage area networking deployment and management, and provide high levels of visibility and insight into the storage network. The table below presents our software portfolios and their material offerings during fiscal year 2020. Software Portfolio Portfolio Description Major Portfolio Offerings Mainframe Software Solutions for DevOps, AIOps and cyber security that accelerate enterprise innovation Operational Analytics management Automation Database Database Management Application Development Testing Identity Access Management Compliance Data Protection Security Insights BizOps Connects business operations and technology functions ValueOps DevOps AIOps Symantec Cyber Security Comprehensive threat protection and compliance to secure users identities and their information Endpoint Security Network Security Information Security Identity Security FC SAN Management Transforms current storage networks with autonomous SAN capabilities Fibre Channel switch Payment Authentication Software designed to reduce Card Not Present and prevent e-commerce fraud, while improving user experience. Payment Security Suite Operational Analytics Management : These solutions combine big data, machine learning and artificial intelligence ( AI ) with mainframe expertise to deliver meaningful and actionable insights to augment and automate day-to-day operations and deliver exceptional customer experiences. Automation : These solutions reduce manual effort by enabling customers to proactively optimize resources and orchestrate automation across enterprise applications and systems. Databases Database Management : These high-performance databases and management tools store, organize, and manage mainframe data to ensure optimal performance, efficient administration, and reliability of critical systems. Application Development Testing : These solutions enable customers to accelerate software delivery while increasing code quality through the use of our agile processes and tools, and DevOps solutions. Our open-first strategy helps customers modernize their mainframe environment through the use of open source and open application programming technologies across people, process, tooling and applications, resulting in greater synergy and alignment with their corporate IT. 7 Table of Contents Identity Access Management : These solutions manage mainframe access and elevate it with modern practices such as multi-factor authentication, managing access for privileged users, and supporting all external security managers. Compliance Data Protection : These solutions locate and protect sensitive mainframe data to ensure compliance and identify risk, identify and proactively respond to potential risks and bad actors, and reduce risk and lighten security management load with automated identification and authorization cleanup. Security Insights Platform : This solution helps ensure a trusted environment for customers and their employees by quickly interpreting and assessing mainframe security posture, identifying risks and developing remediation steps on an ongoing and ad hoc basis. This data is available for use with in-house tools for security information and event management. ValueOps : T