Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 I tem 1C. C ybersecurity 18 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Reserved 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 37 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 82 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 82 Item 9B. Other Information 82 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 82 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation 85 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 85 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 85 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 86 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 Signatures 91 Power of Attorney 92 Table of Contents Safe Harbor Statement The matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which are not statements of historical fact, contain estimates, assumptions, projections and/or expectations regarding future events, which may or may not occur. Words such as aim, anticipate, assume, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, foresee, guidance, intend, may, might, objective, plan, potential, project, seek, shall, should, target, will, would, or variations thereof, and other expressions that refer to future events and trends, identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements, and financial or other business targets, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. We believe that the most significant risk factors that could affect our financial performance in the near term include: (i) the impacts to underlying demand for our products from global economic conditions, political uncertainty, and changes in environmental standards and governmental regulations; (ii) competitors actions, including pricing, expansion in key markets, and product offerings; (iii) the cost and availability of raw materials; (iv) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers through price increases, without a significant loss of volume; (v) foreign currency fluctuations; and (vi) the execution and integration of acquisitions. Certain risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail under Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023. Actual results and trends may differ materially from historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to, risks and uncertainties related to the following: International Operations worldwide economic, social, political and market conditions; changes in political conditions, including those related to China, the Russia-Ukraine war, the Israel-Hamas war and related hostilities in the Middle East; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and other risks associated with international operations, including in emerging markets Our Business fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and energy; changes in our markets due to competitive conditions, technological developments, laws and regulations, tariffs and customer preferences; increasing environmental standards; the impact of competitive products and pricing; execution and integration of acquisitions; selling prices; customer and supplier concentrations or consolidations; financial condition of distributors; outsourced manufacturers; product and service quality; restructuring and other productivity actions; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; successful implementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; our ability to generate sustained productivity improvement; our ability to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; collection of receivables from customers; our sustainability and governance practices; and epidemics, pandemics or other outbreaks of illness Information Technology disruptions in information technology systems, cyber attacks or other security breaches; and successful installation of new or upgraded information technology systems Income Taxes fluctuations in tax rates; changes in tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties associated with interpretations of such laws and regulations; retention of tax incentives; outcome of tax audits; and the realization of deferred tax assets Human Capital recruitment and retention of employees and collective labor arrangements Our Indebtedness credit risks; our ability to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to capital; fluctuations in interest rates; volatility in financial markets; and compliance with our debt covenants Ownership of Our Stock potential significant variability of our stock price and amounts of future dividends and share repurchases Legal and Regulatory Matters protection and infringement of intellectual property; impact of legal and regulatory proceedings, including with respect to environmental, compliance and anti-corruption, environmental, health and safety, and trade compliance Other Financial Matters fluctuations in pension costs and goodwill impairment Our forward-looking statements are made only as of February 21, 2024. We assume no duty to update these forward-looking statements to reflect new, changed or unanticipated events or circumstances, other than as may be required by law. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Company Background Avery Dennison Corporation ( Avery Dennison or the Company and generally referred to as we or us ) was incorporated in Delaware in 1977 as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation to a California corporation of the same name incorporated in 1946. In 1990, we merged one of our subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing Company ( Dennison ), as a result of which Dennison became our wholly-owned subsidiary and in connection with which we changed our name to Avery Dennison Corporation. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.averydennison.com. Our website address provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information on our website is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report. Business Overview and Reportable Segments We are a global materials science and digital identification solutions company that provides a wide range of branding and information solutions that optimize labor and supply chain efficiency, reduce waste, advance sustainability, circularity and transparency, and better connect brands and consumers. Our products and solutions include labeling and functional materials, radio-frequency identification ("RFID") inlays and tags, software applications that connect the physical and digital, and a variety of products and solutions that enhance branded packaging and carry or display information that improves the customer experience. We serve an array of industries worldwide, including home and personal care, apparel, general retail, e-commerce, logistics, food and grocery, pharmaceuticals and automotive. Our reportable segments for fiscal year 2023 were: Materials Group; and Solutions Group In 2023, our Materials Group and Solutions Group reportable segments comprised approximately 69% and 31%, respectively, of our total net sales. In 2023, international operations constituted a substantial majority of our business, representing approximately 69% of our net sales. As of December 30, 2023, we operated over 200 manufacturing and distribution facilities in more than 50 countries. Materials Group Our Materials Group business is a leading provider to pressure-sensitive label and graphics industries worldwide. Our innovative products include label materials, graphics and reflective materials and functional bonding materials, such as tapes. Our label materials enhance shelf appeal for brands, inform shoppers, advance circularity, increase transparency, help reduce waste and improve operational supply chain efficiency. Our graphics portfolio offers highly engineered materials that range from vehicle wraps to architectural films. Materials Group plays a key role in advancing our fast-growing intelligent labels business, providing the materials science capabilities and process engineering expertise essential to developing and manufacturing intelligent labels at scale. Our Materials Group manufactures and sells Fasson -, JAC -, and Avery Dennison -brand pressure-sensitive label materials and performance tapes products, Avery Dennison - and Mactac -brand graphics, and Avery Dennison -brand reflective products. Materials Group s business tends not to be seasonal, except for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products. Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with internally-developed and purchased adhesives, and then laminated with specially-coated backing papers and films. They are then sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a surface by press-on contact. It generally consists of four layers: a face material, which may be paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material to protect the adhesive from premature contact with other surfaces that can also serve as a carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products are ready for use, the release coating and protective backing are removed, exposing the adhesive so that the label or other face material may be pressed or rolled into place. Because they are easy to apply without the need for adhesive activation, self-adhesive materials can provide cost savings compared to other materials that require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives, while also offering aesthetic and other advantages over alternative technologies. Label materials are sold worldwide to label converters for labeling, decorating and specialty applications in the home and personal care, beer and beverage, durables, pharmaceutical, wine and spirits, food and logistics market segments. When used in package decoration applications, the visual appeal of self-adhesive materials can help increase sales of the products on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive materials are also used to convey variable information, such as RFID inlays to enable digital identities on items and bar codes for mailing or weight and price information for packaged 2 Table of Contents meats and other foods. Self-adhesive materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are available in a large selection of materials, which can be made into labels of varying sizes and shapes. Our graphics and reflective products include a variety of films and other products that are sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital printing and other related market segments. We also sell durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive and fleet transportation market segments and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. We provide sign shops, commercial printers and designers a broad range of pressure-sensitive materials that allow them to create impactful and informative brand and decorative graphics. We offer a wide array of pressure-sensitive vinyl and specialty materials designed for digital imaging, screen printing and sign cutting applications. Our performance tapes products include a variety of Fasson -brand and Avery Dennison -brand tapes and other pressure-sensitive adhesive-based materials and converted products, mechanical fasteners and performance polymers. Our pressure-sensitive adhesive-based materials are available in roll form and in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. These materials and converted products are used in non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems for various automotive, electronics, building and construction, general industrial, personal care, and medical applications. Our performance tapes products include Yongle -brand tapes for wire harnessing and cable wrapping in automotive, electrical and general industrial applications. The mechanical fasteners are primarily precision-extruded and injection-molded plastic devices used in various automotive, general industrial and retail applications. Our larger competitors in label materials include UPM Raflatac, a subsidiary of UPM Corporation; Fedrigoni Self-Adhesives; Lintec Corporation; Flexcon Corporation, Inc.; and an array of smaller regional and local companies. For graphics and reflective products, our largest competitors are 3M Company ( 3M ) and the Orafol Group. For performance tapes products, our competitors include 3M; Tesa-SE, a subsidiary of Beiersdorf AG; Nitto Denko Corporation; and numerous regional and specialty suppliers. For fastener products, there are a variety of competitors supplying extruded and injection molded fasteners and fastener attaching equipment. We believe that entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical expertise, size and scale of operations, broad line of quality products and reliable service, product and process innovation, distribution capabilities, brand strength and product innovation are the primary advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position. Solutions Group Our Solutions Group is a leading global provider of information and branding products and solutions that cover a breadth of customer needs from digital identification and data management, branding and embellishment, as well as productivity, pricing and retail media. We empower customers across multiple retail and industry segments to connect the physical and digital worlds, leveraging our industry-leading RFID solutions. Our technology addresses complex customer challenges, provides transparency and visibility across supply chains, improves labor and waste efficiency, and enables better consumer experiences at the point of purchase and beyond. Market segments served include the global apparel, logistics, food and grocery, and general retail industries. As a large ultra-high frequency RFID solutions provider, we leverage our innovation and data management capabilities, global footprint and market access in the ongoing advancement of our intelligent labels business. The branding solutions of the Solutions Group include brand embellishments, graphic tickets, tags, and labels, and sustainable packaging. Solutions Group s information solutions include item-level RFID solutions; visibility and loss prevention solutions; price ticketing and marking; care, content, and country of origin compliance solutions; brand protection and security solutions; and Vestcom -brand shelf-edge productivity and media solutions. In the Solutions Group, our primary competitors include Checkpoint Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of CCL Industries Inc.; R-pac International Corporation; and SML Group Limited. We believe that our product, process and solution innovation, global distribution network, reliable service, product quality and consistency, and ability to serve customers consistently with comprehensive solutions close to where they manufacture, source and sell are the key advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position. Research, Development and Innovation As a global leader in materials science, we innovate to develop and introduce new products and solutions that help customers solve for some of the most complex problems in the industries we serve. Our vision is to leverage the strengths of our Materials and Solutions businesses to lead at the intersection of the physical and digital worlds. Our decades of experience creating solutions for customers and our core capabilities in materials science, engineering and process technology enable us to drive continuous innovation throughout our industries. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating market and customer challenges and opportunities, and applying technology to address them. Our investment in innovation aims to accelerate growth, expand margins and enable customer success by leveraging scalable innovation platforms and delivering sustainability initiatives and advanced technologies. Many of our new products result from our research and development efforts. These efforts are directed primarily toward developing products and solutions, operating techniques and improving productivity, sustainability and product performance, often in close association with our customers or end users. These efforts provide intellectual property that leverages our research and development relating to adhesives, as well as printing and coating technologies, films, release 3 Table of Contents and ink chemistries in Materials Group. We focus on research projects related to RFID, external embellishments, data and digital solutions and printing technologies in Solutions Group, in each case for which we have and license a number of patents. Additionally, our research and development efforts include sustainable innovation and design of products that advance the circular economy, reduce materials and waste, use recycled content, and extend product end-of-life or enable product recycling. Acquisitions and Venture Investments In addition to our investments to support organic growth, we have pursued complementary and synergistic acquisitions. In 2023, we acquired Silver Crystal Group ("Silver Crystal"), a Canada-based provider of sports apparel customization and application solutions across in-venue, direct-to-business and e-commerce platforms; LG Group, Inc. ("Lion Brothers"), a Maryland-based designer and manufacturer of apparel brand embellishments; and Thermopatch, Inc. ("Thermopatch"), a New York-based manufacturer specializing in labeling, embellishments and transfers for the sports, industrial laundry, workwear and hospitality industries. The aggregate purchase consideration for these 2023 acquisitions was approximately $231 million. In 2022, we acquired TexTrace AG ( TexTrace ), a Switzerland-based technology developer specializing in custom-made woven and knitted radio-frequency identification products that can be sewn onto or inserted into garments, as well as Rietveld Serigrafie B.V. and Rietveld Screenprinting Serigrafi Baski Matbaa Tekstil Ithalat Ihracat Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi (collectively, Rietveld ), a Netherlands-based provider of external embellishment solutions and application and printing methods for performance brands and team sports in Europe. The aggregate purchase consideration for the acquisitions of TexTrace and Rietveld was approximately $35 million. During 2023, we also made one venture investment in a company developing technological solutions that we believe have the potential to advance our businesses. For information regarding our acquisitions, see Note 2, Business Acquisitions, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding our venture investments, see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery Dennison, our logo, and Fasson. We believe these trademarks are strong in the market segments in which we operate. Human Capital Resources Our Global Workforce With approximately 69% of our 2023 net sales originating outside the U.S. and approximately 40% of our net sales originating in emerging markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Northern Africa), our employees are located in more than 50 countries to best serve our customers. Approximately 83% of our employees at year-end 2023 were located outside the U.S. and approximately 66% were located in emerging markets. The charts below show our global employee population by region and operational function. Over 19,000 of our approximately 35,000 employees at year-end 2023, representing approximately 56% of our global workforce, were in Asia Pacific, serving our customers in that region. At that time, approximately 65% of our global workforce worked in the operations of our manufacturing facilities or in positions directly supporting them from other locations. Workforce by Region Asia Pacific 56 % North America 22 Europe 18 Latin America 4 Workforce by Function Operations 65 % Non-Operations 35 4 Table of Contents Talent Development Attracting, developing and retaining highly-skilled talent is critical to our ability to continuously deliver sustainable growth. We provide ongoing support and resources to our team members worldwide to ensure that their skills evolve with our business needs, industry trends and human capital management best practices, as well as enable increased productivity, peak performance and career growth. We have robust talent review and succession planning processes that provide individually targeted development opportunities for our team members. We emphasize on-the-job development and coaching, and also provide facilitator-led and direct-access online training, responsibility for executing special projects and, in some cases, cross-functional or cross-regional work assignments. Pay Benefits Our compensation philosophy is to offer market-based, competitive wages and benefits in the markets where we compete for talent all of our employees were paid at least the applicable legal minimum wage, and over 98% of our employees were paid above the applicable legal minimum wage at year-end 2023. Pay is generally positioned around the market median, with variances based on knowledge, skills, years of experience and performance. In addition to base wages, our compensation and benefit programs which vary by region, country and business unit include short-term incentives (generally paid in cash), long-term incentives (e.g., cash- or stock-based awards), employee savings plans, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave and employee assistance programs. We annually evaluate pay equity, making adjustments where appropriate. In 2023, we reviewed pay equity (considering total base, annual incentive compensation and long term incentives) with respect to gender for all non-manufacturing employees globally, as well as manufacturing employees in the U.S. and certain other countries, and with respect to race/ethnicity for all U.S. employees. We offer flexible work arrangements for our office-based workforce to provide them with greater flexibility to balance their work and personal commitments, while ensuring that we meet the needs of our business. Our infrastructure, information security and digital tools support employee efficiency and effectiveness wherever they work. Employee Engagement Because we believe that an engaged workforce promotes retention and minimizes employee turnover, we annually conduct a global employee engagement survey. With a focus on continuous improvement, in 2023 we launched our survey using a more advanced platform providing real-time access to results, improved analytics and ability to connect data throughout the employee experience, more meaningful comparisons to external benchmarks, and ongoing pulse survey capability. Our business and functional teams use the anonymized results of our survey to identify and implement actions to address potential opportunities for improvement. While employee engagement is the result of many factors, we believe strong, encouraging and open leadership, as well as a continued effort to foster a collaborative, supportive culture, leads to strong workforce engagement. Workforce Health Safety Safety is one of our highest priorities, and we continually work to ensure our manufacturing facilities, distribution centers and administrative offices focus on safety, so that anyone working in or visiting one of our locations feels and remains safe from injury. Our global Recordable Incident Rate of 0.22 in 2023 was significantly lower than the Occupational Safety and Health Administration manufacturing industry average of 3.2 in 2022 (the most recent available industry average). Diversity, Equity Inclusion Our diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI") efforts are intended to foster an environment where employees can grow and be increasingly productive and innovative, enhancing our reputation as a great place to work and allowing us to attract and retain talent for the benefit of our stakeholders. These efforts continue to gain momentum and create impact. In 2023, we significantly increased the number of questions we asked around DEI in our annual employee engagement survey. By aligning to external best practice questions, we can more deeply understand our DEI progress and opportunities. Our DEI global strategic pillars of focus continue to be: increasing the number of women who hold leadership positions; enhancing the experience of our manufacturing employees; increasing representation and inclusion for underrepresented groups, with priority populations and actions established regionally; and making merit and transparency even more foundational to our employee experience. During 2023, we continued conducting listening sessions to better understand both our strengths and areas of opportunity, and have deployed programmatic strategies such as leadership development programming; sponsorship and mentorship programs; connection events to build a culture of inclusion for our manufacturing employees across the globe; and talent analytics and pipeline modeling to further advance inclusion. Additionally, our Regional DEI Councils and Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs") continue to be integral in advancing our DEI strategy. ERGs, which are open to all employees, bring team members who have shared interests, providing them a means to collectively amplify their voices. 5 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Environmental Matters We use various raw materials primarily paper, plastic films and resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various commercial and industrial sources that are subject to price fluctuations. Although shortages can occur from time to time, these raw materials are generally available. We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies. A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes organic solvents, which, unless controlled, could be emitted into the atmosphere or contaminate soil or groundwater. Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to minimize these emissions. In connection with the maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment, we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions. We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt adhesives, and solventless and emulsion silicone systems have been installed in many of our facilities. Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of complying with applicable laws regulating the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position, results of operations or competitive position. For information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see Note 8, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), are available free of charge on our investor website at www.investors.averydennison.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information located there is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference into this report. We also make available on the investors section of