Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 93 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 94 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 96 2 Table of Contents PART I Statements contained in this report that are not historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies regarding the future. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe-harbor provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Words such as may, will, should, could, would, predict, potential, continue, expect, anticipate, future, intend, plan, believe, estimate, and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Many events beyond our control may determine whether results we anticipate will be achieved. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. This report lists various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. These factors are intended as cautionary statements for investors within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act. Readers can find them under the heading Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and investors should refer to them. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Our filings with the SEC may be accessed at the SEC s web site at www.sec.gov. 3 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Axon Enterprise, Inc. may be referred to as the Company, Axon, we, or our. We were incorporated in Arizona in September 1993 as ICER Corporation. We changed our name to AIR TASER, Inc. in December 1993 and to TASER International, Incorporated in April 1998. In January 2001, we reincorporated in Delaware as TASER International, Inc., and in April 2017, changed our name to Axon Enterprise, Inc. Our headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona houses our executive management, sales, marketing, certain engineering, manufacturing, finance and other administrative support functions. Our global software hub is located in Seattle, Washington, and we also have subsidiaries and / or offices located in Australia, Canada, Finland, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam. Overview Axon s mission is to protect life. We fulfill this mission through developing hardware and software products that advance our long-term strategic goals of a) obsoleting the bullet, b) reducing social conflict, c) enabling a fair and effective justice system, and d) building for racial equity, diversity, and inclusion. Our products solve some of society s most challenging problems and our mission attracts top talent. An axon is a nerve fiber that serves as the primary communication link in a nervous system similarly, we see ourselves as building the nervous system for public safety. Our research development ( R D ) investments support continuous innovation on behalf of our customers. Our financial strategy is to build highly recurring, highly profitable businesses. In 2021, we made investments for scale to expand our total addressable market along three axes introducing new products, selling into new customer market segments, and adding sales channels to new geographic regions. We believe we are serving a $52 billion total addressable market. What we build - Technologies to assist officers in de-escalating events, devices, digital evidence management systems, productivity software, real-time operations software and services, and virtual reality training services Who we sell to - State and local law enforcement, U.S. federal civilian and defense agencies, justice and court systems, corrections, fire departments and emergency medical services providers, consumers, and commercial enterprises such as private security firms and transportation providers Where we deliver U.S., Asia-Pacific ( APAC ); Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ( EMEA ) and the Americas Axon s operations comprise two reportable segments: 1. TASER: Axon is the market leader in the development, manufacture and sale of conducted energy devices ( CEDs ), which we sell under our brand name, TASER. 2. Software and Sensors: We develop, manufacture and sell fully integrated hardware and cloud-based software solutions that enable law enforcement to capture, securely store, manage, share and analyze video and other digital evidence. Further information about our reportable segments and sales by geographic region is included in Notes 1 and 19 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For backlog by reportable segment, refer to Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents Key Product Category Revenue Drivers: What We Offer Axon products are generally cloud-connected, designed to drive better outcomes and customer experiences, and sold via mutually reinforcing integrated bundles. Our key revenue drivers belong to three broad product categories: 1. TASER: We develop smart devices, tools and services that support public safety officers in de-escalating situations, avoiding or minimizing use of force and aid consumers in personal protection. These tools include TASER devices, virtual reality training services and consumer devices. Research has shown that TASER devices are the most effective less-than-lethal force option, with the lowest likelihood of injury to officers and assailants. Since our inception in 1993, TASER devices have been adopted by a majority of U.S. police departments and are used daily to help keep communities safe. We see opportunity to create more effective and reliable personal protection for private individuals, and, thus, our consumer business is a growing area of investment. Our market penetration among consumers is virtually nil. 2. Sensors : Axon devices address many needs, including transparency, real-time situational awareness, and capturing evidence accurately and integrating with software workflows. Product categories within sensors include Axon body cameras, Axon Fleet in-car systems, and other devices that work with our software. 3. Software: Axon is building a suite of cloud-based, software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) solutions that integrate with our sensors and TASER devices to benefit customers and drive annual recurring revenue, which totaled $327.5 million (a) as of December 31, 2021. We have many SaaS solutions, which can best be trisected into three categories: digital evidence management, productivity and real-time operations solutions. Axon Evidence is the world s largest cloud-hosted public safety data repository of public safety video data and other types of digital evidence. (a) Monthly recurring license, integration, warranty, and storage revenue annualized. Sales and Distribution: Who We Sell To and Where We Deliver Axon s direct sales force and strong customer relationships represent key strategic advantages. The majority of our revenues are generated via direct sales, including our online store, although we do leverage distribution partners and third-party resellers. No customer represented more than 10% of total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 or 2019. Our primary customer market is U.S. law enforcement. Of the approximately 18,000 law enforcement agencies in the U.S., we have a customer relationship with approximately 17,000. Axon has dedicated sales representatives for the 1,200 largest agencies, which account for approximately 70% of U.S. law enforcement patrol officers. The remaining agencies are served via our telesales team as well as distributors. In recent years, we have been investing in sales personnel to capture new markets, including the U.S. federal government and military, departments of corrections, the fire and emergency medical services markets, and new geographies outside the U.S. In 2021, we continued to expand our presence in new markets by growing our dedicated sales teams in the Justice and Enterprise markets. Governmental agencies generally have the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, for reasons including, but not limited to, non-appropriation of funds. Resources Manufacturing and Supply Chain We perform light manufacturing, final assembly, and final test operations at our headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona, and own substantially all of the equipment required to develop, prototype, manufacture and assemble our finished products. We have continued to maintain both our ISO 9001 and our ISO 9001:2015 certifications. 5 Table of Contents We previously took steps to diversify our supply chain and global manufacturing footprint, which positioned us well to manage through the COVID-19 pandemic. Thus far, we have been able to produce and ship our critical core products. However, as we enter 2022 material availability still poses real risks to all businesses that manufacture products. Supplier decommitments remain our largest area of risk and we have seen this practice increase over the course of the pandemic and global supply chain constraints. We proactively manage our supply chain down to third tier suppliers to overcome material shortages as they arise. These actions align to our strategic model to help meet strong product demand while also preparing us to stagger factory work schedules as needed, which enables us to meet compressed build schedules over short periods of time. We continue to adjust strategic inventory levels based on areas of risk (Covid, geopolitical, governmental, etc.) to mitigate potential supply disruptions. In light of our broad domestic and international geographic supplier base, we are continuously monitoring our supply chain to manage through potential impacts, identifying alternate shipping / logistic sources, and working with foreign regulators to ensure that our suppliers can provide parts. We obtain many of our components from single source suppliers; however, because we own the injection molded component tooling used in their production, we believe we could obtain alternative suppliers in most cases without incurring significant production delays. For additional discussion of sources and availability of raw materials, refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We provide limited manufacturer s warranties on our CEDs and Axon devices, and customers also have the option to purchase extended warranties. For additional information about our warranties, refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property with U.S. and international patents and trademarks. Our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations and laws to protect our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2021, we hold 253 U.S. patents, 91 U.S. registered trademarks, 155 international patents, and 383 international registered trademarks, and also have numerous patent and trademark applications pending. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors operations in particular countries and regions, our strategic technology or product directions in different countries, and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. We have the exclusive rights to many Internet domain names, primarily including TASER.com , Axon.com , Axon.net , Evidence.com and Axon.io. We also vigorously protect our intellectual property, including trademarks, patents and trade secrets against third-party infringement. Confidentiality agreements are used with employees, consultants and key suppliers to help ensure the confidentiality of our trade secrets. Competition TASER for Law Enforcement, Corrections and Private Security Markets: Our CEDs compete with a variety of other less-lethal alternatives to firearms, including rubber bullets or rubber baton rounds, pepper spray, pepper spray projectiles, mace, traditional stun guns, hand-held remote restraint devices involving a tether, laser dazzlers that cause temporary blindness, stun grenades, long-range acoustic devices, police batons and night sticks. TASER devices offer advanced technology, versatility, portability, effectiveness, built-in accountability systems, and low injury rates, which enable us to compete effectively against other less-lethal alternatives. TASER devices also offer connectivity to our cloud network, which allows agencies to more effectively manage their less-lethal programs and automate use-of-force reporting. 6 Table of Contents The primary competitive factors in this market include a device s accuracy, effectiveness, reputation, safety, cost, ease of use, and exceptional customer experience. The design maturity of the TASER platform, as well as our development and sale of a two-shot device, are also key competitive differentiators. We are aware of competitors providing competing CED products primarily in international markets. TASER for Personal Safety: In the private citizen market, TASER devices compete with firearms and with other less-than-lethal self-defense options such as stun guns and pepper spray-based products including pepper guns and miniature spray cans. The TASER StrikeLight competes in the flashlight category, in which there are dozens, if not hundreds, of competitors, including tactical flashlight providers with and without stun-gun capabilities. TASER personal safety devices are not stun guns, and have different capabilities, including NMI (neuro-muscular incapacitation) functionality. The broader market for personal safety and home defense is far-reaching, and categories range from threat detection and accountability (dash and doorbell cameras), to home security (home alarms, locks, and response services) to personal defense (firearms, stun guns, TASER devices, pepper spray, tactical flashlights, and personal alarms), to personal tracking and emergency notification mobile applications. The primary benefit of TASER devices is in less-than-lethal stopping power. Other competitive factors include a device s cost, effectiveness, safety, ease of use, and available training options. Sensors Connected Cameras and Digital Evidence Management Software: The body-worn camera and in-car video/automatic license plate readers market is highly competitive. Our competition includes Motorola Solutions, Utility Associates, Getac, Panasonic Corp., Reveal Media, Coban Technologies, L3 Mobile-Vision, Digital Ally, Visual Labs, Intrensic, LLC, as well as Safety Vision, Rekor, and Genetec. The market for software solutions to improve public safety agency workflows is both highly fragmented and highly competitive. Our cloud-based digital evidence management system, Axon Evidence, competes with both cloud-based platforms and on-premises based systems designed by third-parties or developed internally by an agency s technology staff. Our competition includes Motorola Solutions, Panasonic Corp., IBM, Oracle, FotoWare, Vidizmo, NICE, QueTel, OpenText, and FileOnQ among others. Key competitive factors in this market include product performance, product features (including live-streaming, GPS tracking, and pre-event buffering), battery life, product quality and warranty, total cost of ownership, data security, data and information workflows, company reputation and financial strength, and relationships with customers. Productivity and Real-Time Operations Records Management System (RMS) and Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD): The RMS and CAD markets are highly competitive and highly fragmented. We have identified more than 50 software providers, including Motorola Solutions, Tyler Technologies, Central Square Technologies (formerly Superion, TriTech and Aptean), Northrop Grumman, Hexagon AB, Niche Technology Inc., Caliber Public Safety (parent, Harris Systems USA), Saab, SOMA Global, RapidDeploy, Sopra Steria, and Mark 43 Inc. In addition, not all law enforcement agencies use software for report writing some still use paper. We believe our network of camera sensors and digital evidence management platform give us a strategic advantage in these product categories. Our Respond offering competes both with real-time operations platforms that ingest body camera video feeds, like Motorola s CommandCentral Aware, Hitachi s Visualization Suite and Genetec s Citigraf as well as platforms that ingest video feeds exclusively from surveillance cameras, like Rave Mobile Safety, LiveEarth and Mutualink among others. Seasonality We have historically experienced higher net sales in our fourth quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due primarily to municipal budget cycles. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact the cadence of net sales, product costs and operating expenses. Municipal law enforcement budgets tend to feature a mix of fiscal years that end in either June, September or December. However, historical seasonal patterns, municipal 7 Table of Contents budgets or historical patterns of product introductions should not be considered reliable indicators of our future net sales or financial performance. Governmental Regulation We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including, for example, laws and regulations related to: privacy and data protection, security, retention, and deletion; rights of publicity; content; intellectual property; regulation of our CEDs as firearms; advertising; marketing; distribution; electronic contracts and other communications; competition; consumer protection; telecommunications; product liability; taxation; labor and employment; economic or other trade prohibitions or sanctions; securities; and online payment services. There are a number of legislative proposals in the U.S., at both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations in areas affecting our business, such as liability for copyright infringement by third parties. Foreign laws and regulations can impose different obligations or be more restrictive than those in the U.S. These U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations, which in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. As a result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current policies and practices. TASER and Axon Devices For our TASER products, we rely on the opinions of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, including the determination that a device that does not expel projectiles by the action of an explosive is not classified as a firearm. Federal regulation of sales in the U.S.: Our currently offered CEDs are not firearms regulated by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, but our consumer products are regulated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. There are currently no federal laws restricting sales of our core currently offered CED products in the U.S. Axon devices using lithium batteries are subject to U.S.-DOT/UN 38.3 for transportation. Our CED products are also subject to testing, safety and other standard organizations such as the American National Standards Institute, the International Electrotechnical Commission, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and Underwriters Laboratories. These regulations also affect CEDs with Axon Signal technology, including Signal Performance Power Magazine technology, and TASER 7 battery packs. Federal regulation of international sales: Our CEDs are considered a crime control product by the U.S. Department of Commerce ( DOC ) for export directly from the U.S. Consequently, we must obtain an export license from the DOC for the export of our CED devices from the U.S. to any country other than Canada. Federal regulation of foreign national employees: Our CED technology is considered controlled technology by the U.S. DOC and is categorized as a deemed export for any foreign national employees exposed to the technology within the U.S. Consequently, we must obtain an export licenses from the DOC for any deemed export within the U.S. made to a foreign national employee exposed to the deemed controlled technology. Deemed export licenses are subject to DOC approvals and issued licenses require annual status reports for the stated employees. State and local regulation: Our CEDs are controlled, restricted or, less frequently, prohibited by a number of state and local governments. As of December 31, 2021, the general public in Hawaii and Rhode Island is prohibited from possessing certain of our TASER-branded devices. Some cities and municipalities also prohibit private citizen possession or use of our CED products. Subsequent to December 31, 2021, Hawaii lifted restrictions on possession related to TASER-branded devices. 8 Table of Contents International regulation of foreign imports and sales: Certain jurisdictions prohibit, restrict, or require a permit for the importation, sale, possession or use of CEDs, including in some countries by law enforcement agencies, limiting our international sales opportunities. U.S. and International regulation of component movements globally: We rely on a global supply chain of components across our product lines with most final assembly occurring in the U.S. Export of these components from abroad is subject to shifting regulatory landscapes imposed by both the foreign government and U.S. authorities upon import. International regulation of foreign-based operations: We maintain foreign operations in several countries globally for purposes of logistics, sales, and R D support. Depending on these activities, regulations can include business activity licensing and registration, import permits and recordkeeping, warehousing storage security and permitting, and government reporting. Radio Spectrum Devices Certain of our products utilize the radio spectrum to provide wireless voice, data and video communications services. The allocation of spectrum is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) regulates spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of radio spectrum and electromagnetic interference, pursuant to their respective national laws. We manufacture and, after receiving the required approvals, we market our products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. Axon body worn cameras, docks, fleet vehicle cameras and signal devices are subject to FCC s rules and regulations. The FCC regulates not only the intentional radiation of radio transmitters, but also the unintentional radiation of noise from all sorts of electrical equipment. Current Axon products use Bluetooth, WiFi and/or Long Term Evolution ( LTE ) radio technologies. With the integration of LTE technologies, we must also apply for the approval of private certifications such as Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association certification, required by FirstNet and other operators. These regulations affect CEDs with Signal technology, including the TASER 7, SPPM, and future CEDs implementing wireless technology. Environmental Regulations We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in our products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of such products. The European Union ( EU ) has published Directives on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (the RoHS Directive ) and on electronic and electrical waste management (the WEEE Directive ). The RoHS Directive restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. The WEEE Directive directs members of the EU to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the EU. In addition, similar environmental legislation has been enacted in other jurisdictions, including the U.S. (under federal and state laws) and other countries. In addition, the EU has defined a regulation for the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals that places responsibility on companies to manage the risks from chemicals contained in products and to provide safety information about such substances. Manufacturers and importers are required to gather information on the properties of the chemical substances in their products and provide for their safe handling. As of January 5, 2021, companies supplying products on the EU market containing substances of very high concern as identified by the EU have to submit information on these products to the European Chemicals Agency. The information in their database is then made available to waste operators and consumers. Other countries have adopted chemical restrictions regulations, including the U.S., Canada, and Australia. 9 Table of Contents Privacy Regulations We are subject to laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances we can collect, transfer, process and/or receive certain data that is critical to our operations, including data shared between countries or regions in which we operate and data shared among our products and services. We continue to monitor and assess for compliance as the regulatory environment evolves both within the United States and in relevant international markets. The European General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) took effect in May 2018 and applies to many of our products and services that provide service in Europe. The GDPR includes operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the EU. The GDPR includes significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, some countries have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements. Human Capital Resources Our success depends on the continued service of our employees and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate top talent. To facilitate this, we strive to create a diverse and inclusive environment at Axon, with equitable opportunities for employee growth and development, supported by strong compensation and benefits and by programs that build connections between our employees and their communities. Axon s mission is central to our recruiting and retention efforts. As of December 31, 2021, we had 2,148 full-time employees and 844 temporary emplo