Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 88 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 88 Item 9B. Other Information 90 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 90 Item 11. Executive Compensation 90 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 90 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 90 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 90 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 91 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 92 2 Table of Contents PART I Statements contained in this report that are not historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies regarding the future. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe-harbor provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Words such as may, will, should, could, would, predict, potential, continue, expect, anticipate, future, intend, plan, believe, estimate, and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements. However, not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: our ability to design, introduce and sell new products or features; our ability to defend against litigation and protect our intellectual property, and the resulting costs of this activity; our ability to manage our supply chain and avoid production delays, shortages, and impacts to expected gross margins; the impact of stock compensation expense, impairment expense, and income tax expense on our financial results; customer purchase behavior, including adoption of our software as a service delivery model; our exposure to cancellations of government contracts due to appropriation clauses, exercise of a cancellation clause, or non-exercise of contractually optional periods; negative media publicity regarding our products; the impact of product mix on projected gross margins; defects in our products; changes in the costs of product components and labor; loss of customer data, a breach of security, or an extended outage, including our reliance on third party cloud-based storage providers; exposure to international operational risks; delayed cash collections and possible credit losses due to our subscription model; changes in government regulations in the U.S. and in foreign markets, especially related to the classification of our product by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and to evolving regulations surrounding privacy and data protection; our ability to integrate acquired businesses; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; and counter-party risks relating to cash balances held in excess of FDIC insurance limits. Many events beyond our control may determine whether results we anticipate will be achieved. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. This report lists various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. These factors are intended as cautionary statements for investors within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act. Readers can find them under the heading Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and investors should refer to them. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our filings with the SEC may be accessed at the SEC s web site at www.sec.gov. 3 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Axon Enterprise, Inc. may be referred to as the Company, Axon, we, or our. We were incorporated in Arizona in September 1993 as ICER Corporation. We changed our name to AIR TASER, Inc. in December 1993 and to TASER International, Incorporated in April 1998. In January 2001, we reincorporated in Delaware as TASER International, Inc., and in April 2017, changed our name to Axon Enterprise, Inc. Our headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona houses our executive management, sales, marketing, certain engineering, manufacturing, finance and other administrative support functions. Our global software hub is located in Seattle, Washington, and we also have subsidiaries and / or offices located in Australia, Canada, Finland, Hong Kong, Germany, India, Italy, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam. Overview Axon s mission is to protect life. We fulfill this mission through developing hardware and software products that advance our long term vision of a) obsoleting the bullet, b) reducing social conflict, and c) enabling a fair and effective justice system. Our products solve some of society's most challenging problems and our mission attracts top talent. An axon is a nerve fiber that serves as the primary communication link in a nervous system similarly, we see ourselves as building the nervous system for public safety. Our growth strategy includes heavy R D investment to support continuous innovation on behalf of law enforcement customers. In addition, we are expanding our sales force to support sales into law-enforcement-adjacent markets, to include the U.S. federal government and military, U.S. and international departments of corrections (prisons), and the fire and emergency medical services markets. In these markets, we seek to increasingly drive adoption of integrated product bundles that generate recurring revenue and cash flow. The Axon Network is a mutually reinforcing suite the more subscribers we attract, the more value we can offer. More value delivered drives user adoption, which generates data for collaborative sharing, real-time communications, and improving product performance with artificial intelligence ("AI") training. Axon's operations comprise two reportable segments: 1. TASER: Axon is the market leader in the development, manufacture and sale of conducted energy weapons ("CEWs"), also known as conducted energy devices ("CEDs"), which we sell under our brand name, TASER. Research has shown that the TASER device is the most effective less-than-lethal force option, with the lowest likelihood of injury to officers and assailants. Since our inception in 1993, the TASER has been adopted by a majority of U.S. police departments and is used daily to help keep communities safe. 2. Software and Sensors: Axon is the market leader in on-officer body (Axon Body and Flex) and in-car (Axon Fleet) cameras as well as cloud-based digital evidence management software (Evidence.com). We develop, manufacture and sell fully integrated hardware and cloud-based software solutions that enable law enforcement to capture, securely store, manage, share and analyze video and other digital evidence. Of the 69 largest metropolitan area police departments in the U.S., 47 are on the Axon Network. Further information about our reportable segments and sales by geographic region is included in Notes 1 and 17 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For backlog by reportable segment, refer to Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Guiding Product Principles Axon s products are generally cloud-connected, designed to drive better outcomes and customer experiences, and sold via bundles. Our solutions are organized into four categories: De-escalation: We develop smart weapons and tools that support public safety officers in de-escalating situations, avoiding or minimizing use of force. These tools include the cloud-connected TASER CED (TASER 7) as 4 Table of Contents well as a suite of Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality ("AR/VR") training services for law enforcement, delivered through our Axon Academy training platform. To obsolete firearms and bullets, we intend to not only develop more effective TASER devices over time but also drive training and adoption of the best practices in modern policing. Sensors : Our digital evidence management software, Axon Evidence, supports our network of cloud-connected cameras and sensors. Axon Evidence addresses the challenges presented by growing amounts of digital evidence via closed circuit television video, body worn camera video, in-car camera video, and citizen-captured digital evidence, making it easy to store, manage, redact and share on one platform. Axon Evidence is the world s largest cloud-hosted data repository of law enforcement video data and other types of electronic evidence. Axon is also driving innovation in the body camera category through developing solutions that do more than collect, store and manage video. In September 2019, we began shipping Axon Body 3, a camera with an LTE antenna and a Global Positioning System ("GPS") chip, which supports real-time awareness. Productivity: Our productivity suite of tools is designed to reduce time spent on paperwork. Axon Records, an emerging product, is a cloud-based report-writing software tool that takes a disruptive modern approach to displace legacy records management systems ("RMS") by putting body camera video at the heart of the incident record. Axon Records includes Axon Standards, a radically simpler approach to use-of-force reporting that can be easily adopted alongside a traditional RMS before upgrading to the full service. Axon Performance helps agencies to ensure that officers are adhering to agency policies, and provides them the analytics to demonstrate the effectiveness of their body-worn camera programs. Redaction Assistant enables agencies to redact videos in a fraction of the time through the use of artificial intelligence ("AI"). Communications: We are developing communication tools that support real-time situational awareness through the sharing of information across myriad media, including voice, messaging, location mapping, and intelligence and evidence sharing. Products include Axon Aware, which allows agencies to know the GPS location of their officers and what those officers are experiencing through live video streaming, and Axon Dispatch, which is a computer-aided dispatch ("CAD") product that is designed to empower everyone in public safety who is involved in incident response: dispatchers, call takers, command staff, patrol officers, firefighters and medical personnel. Sales and Distribution Axon's direct sales force and strong customer relationships represent key strategic advantages. The majority of our revenues are generated via direct sales, including our online store, although we do leverage distribution partners and third-party resellers. No customer represented more than 10% of total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017. Our primary customer market is US law enforcement. Of the approximately 18,000 law enforcement agencies in the US, we have a customer relationship with approximately 17,000. Axon has dedicated sales representatives for the 1,200 largest agencies, which account for 70% to 80% of U.S. law enforcement patrol officers. The remaining agencies are served via our telesales team as well as distributors. Internationally, we began focusing on a direct sales strategy in 2017, and in 2018 and 2019 we made significant investments in building out our international direct sales force, particularly in the United Kingdom, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. In 2019, we added sales personnel to capture law enforcement-adjacent markets, such as the US federal government and military, U.S. and international departments of corrections, and the fire and emergency medical services markets. Governmental agencies generally have the ability to terminate our contracts, in whole or in part, for reasons including, but not limited to, non-appropriation of funds. 5 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Supply Chain We perform light manufacturing, final assembly, and final test operations at our headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona, and own substantially all of the equipment required to develop, prototype, manufacture and assemble our finished products. We have continued to maintain both our ISO 9001 and our ISO 9001:2015 certifications. We obtain many of our components from single source suppliers; however, because we own the injection molded component tooling used in their production, we believe we could obtain alternative suppliers in most cases without incurring significant production delays. For additional discussion of sources and availability of raw materials, refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We provide limited manufacturer's warranties on our CEDs and Axon devices. For additional information about our warranties, refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition De-escalation TASER for Law Enforcement, Corrections and Private Security Markets: Our CEDs compete with a variety of other less-lethal alternatives to firearms, including rubber bullets or rubber baton rounds, pepper spray, mace, traditional stun guns, hand-held remote restraint devices involving a tether, laser dazzlers that cause temporary blindness, stun grenades, long-range acoustic devices, police batons and night sticks. TASER devices offer advanced technology, versatility, portability, effectiveness, built-in accountability systems, and low injury rates, which enable us to compete effectively against other less-lethal alternatives. TASER devices also offer connectivity to our cloud network, which allows agencies to more effectively manage their less-lethal programs and automate use-of-force reporting. The primary competitive factors in this market include a device s accuracy, effectiveness, reputation, safety, cost, ease of use, and exceptional customer experience. The design maturity of the TASER platform, as well as our development and sale of a two-shot device, are also key competitive differentiators. We are aware of competitors providing competing CED products primarily in international markets. De-escalation TASER for Private Citizen Market: In the private citizen market, these devices primarily compete with firearms, but also with other less lethal self-defense options such as pepper spray and stun guns. The primary competitive factors in this market include a device s cost, effectiveness, safety and ease of use. The TASER StrikeLight competes in the flashlight category, in which there are dozens, if not hundreds, of competitors, including tactical flashlight providers such as SureFire, 5.11 Tactical, Blackhawk, Maglite, and many more. Sensors Connected Cameras and Digital Evidence Management Software: The body-worn camera and in-car video market is highly competitive. Our competition includes Motorola Solutions and WatchGuard, which Motorola purchased in 2019, Panasonic Corp., Reveal Media, L3 Mobile-Vision, Coban Technologies, Digital Ally, Getac, Utility Associates, Intrensic, Safety Vision and Visual Labs. We also compete with consumer wearable camera makers including GoPro and Garmin. The market for software solutions to improve public safety agency workflows is highly fragmented and highly competitive. Our cloud-based digital evidence management system, Axon Evidence, competes with both cloud-based platforms and on-premises based systems designed by third-parties or in-house by an agency's technology staff. Key competitive factors in this market include product performance, product features, battery life, product quality and warranty, total cost of ownership, data security, data and information work flows, company reputation and financial strength, and relationships with customers. Productivity and Communications RMS and CAD: The RMS and CAD markets are highly competitive and highly fragmented. We have identified more than 50 incumbent software providers, including Motorola Solutions, Tyler Technologies, Central Square Technologies (formerly Superion, TriTech and Aptean), Northrop Grumman, Hexagon 6 Table of Contents AB, Niche Technology Inc., Caliber Public Safety (parent, Harris Systems USA), Saab, Sopra Steria, and Mark 43 Inc. In addition, not all law enforcement agencies use software for report writing some still use paper. We believe our network of camera sensors and digital evidence management platform give us a strategic advantage in these product categories. Seasonality We have historically experienced higher net sales in our fourth quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due primarily to municipal budget cycles. Additionally, new product introductions can significantly impact the cadence of net sales, product costs and operating expenses. However, historical seasonal patterns, municipal budgets or historical patterns of product introductions should not be considered reliable indicators of our future net sales or financial performance. Environmental Regulation We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Refer to Section 1A, Risk Factors under the heading A variety of new and existing laws and/or interpretations could materially and adversely affect our business. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property with U.S. and international patents and trademarks. Our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations and laws to protect our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2019 , we hold 183 U.S. patents, 75 U.S. registered trademarks, 127 international patents, and 313 international registered trademarks, and also have numerous patents and trademarks pending. We are constantly innovating across all of our platforms, including on the TASER platform, and in the next few years expect to file more patent applications related to TASER 7 alone than there are TASER patents expiring due to age. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors operations in particular countries and regions, our strategic technology or product directions in different countries, and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. We have the exclusive rights to many Internet domain names, primarily including TASER.com , Axon.com , Axon.net , Evidence.com and Axon.io. Confidentiality agreements are used with employees, consultants and key suppliers to help ensure the confidentiality of our trade secrets. Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had 1,323 full-time employees and 593 temporary employees. The breakdown of our full-time employees by department was as follows: 249 direct manufacturing employees, 408 research and development employees, 401 administrative and manufacturing support employees and 265 employees within sales, marketing, communications and training. Of the 593 temporary employees, nearly 70% worked in direct manufacturing roles. Our employees are not covered by any collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge on our website at http://investor.axon.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the SEC. The information on our website, including information about our trademarks, is not incorporated by reference 7 Table of Contents into or otherwise a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov .