ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview American Express is a globally integrated payments company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. We are a leader in providing credit and charge cards to consumers, small businesses, mid-sized companies and large corporations around the world. American Express cards issued by American Express as well as by third-party banks and other institutions on the American Express network permit Card Members to charge purchases of goods and services at the millions of merchants around the world that accept cards bearing our logo. Our various products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups through various channels, including mobile and online applications, affiliate marketing, customer referral programs, third-party vendors and business partners, direct mail, telephone, in-house sales teams and direct response advertising. Business travel-related services are offered through our non-consolidated joint venture, American Express Global Business Travel (the GBT JV). We were founded in 1850 as a joint stock association and were incorporated in 1965 as a New York corporation. American Express Company and its principal operating subsidiary, American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (TRS), are bank holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHC Act), subject to supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve). As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 64,500 people, whom we refer to as colleagues. We principally engage in businesses comprising three reportable operating segments: Global Consumer Services Group (GCSG), Global Commercial Services (GCS) and Global Merchant and Network Services (GMNS). Corporate functions and certain other businesses are included in Corporate Other. Our businesses are global in scope and function together to form our end-to-end integrated payments platform, which we believe is a differentiator that underpins our business model. For further information about our reportable operating segments, please see Business Segment Results under MD A. Our Integrated Payments Platform Through our general-purpose card-issuing, merchant-acquiring and card network businesses, we are able to connect participants and provide differentiated value across the commerce path. We maintain direct relationships with both our Card Members (as a card issuer) and merchants (as an acquirer), and we handle all key aspects of those relationships. These relationships create a closed loop in that we have direct access to information at both ends of the card transaction, which distinguishes our integrated payments platform from the bankcard networks. 1 Table of Contents Our integrated payments platform allows us to analyze information on Card Member spending and build algorithms and other analytical tools that we use to underwrite risk, reduce fraud and provide targeted marketing and other information services for merchants and special offers and services to Card Members, all while respecting Card Member preferences and protecting Card Member and merchant data in compliance with applicable policies and legal requirements. Through contractual relationships, we also obtain information from third-party card issuers, merchant acquirers and processors with whom we do business. Card Issuing Businesses Our global proprietary card-issuing businesses are conducted through our GCSG and GCS reportable operating segments. We offer a broad set of card products, rewards and services to a diverse consumer and commercial customer base, in the United States and internationally. We acquire and retain high-spending, engaged and creditworthy Card Members by: Designing innovative products and features that appeal to our target customer base and meet their spending and borrowing needs Using incentives to drive spending on our various card products and engender loyal Card Members, including our Membership Rewards program, cash-back reward features and participation in loyalty programs sponsored by our cobrand and other partners Providing digital and mobile services and an array of benefits and experiences across card products, such as airport lounge access and other travel and lifestyle benefits, which we believe are difficult for others to replicate and help increase Card Member engagement Creating world-class service experiences by delivering exceptional customer care Developing a wide range of partner relationships, including with other corporations and institutions that sponsor certain of our cards under cobrand arrangements and provide benefits and services to our Card Members For the year ended December 31, 2019, worldwide proprietary billed business (spending on American Express cards issued by us) was $1,071 billion and at December 31, 2019, we had 70 million proprietary cards-in-force worldwide. Merchant Acquiring Business Our GMNS reportable operating segment builds and manages relationships with millions of merchants around the world that choose to accept American Express cards. This includes signing new merchants to accept our cards, agreeing on the discount rate (a fee charged to the merchant for accepting our cards) and handling servicing for merchants. We also build and maintain relationships with merchant acquirers, aggregators and processors to manage aspects of our merchant services business. For example, through our OptBlue merchant-acquiring program, third-party processors contract directly with small merchants for card acceptance and determine merchant pricing. We continue to grow merchant acceptance of American Express cards around the world. As of year-end 2019, based on our internal tracking and our understanding of the latest industry data, we believe we achieved our goal of reaching virtual parity coverage with Mastercard and Visa credit card-accepting merchants in the United States. We are also focused on increasing merchant coverage strategically in targeted countries, cities and merchant categories outside the United States, with continued growth in merchant locations internationally in 2019. As we continue to grow our network, we will seek to work with merchant partners in the United States and around the world to ensure that our Card Members are warmly welcomed and encouraged to spend in the millions of places where their American Express cards are accepted. Card Network Business GMNS operates a payments network through which it establishes and maintains relationships with third-party banks and other institutions in approximately 94 countries and territories, licensing the American Express brand and extending the reach of our global network. Under independent operator arrangements, partners are licensed to issue local currency American Express-branded cards in their countries and serve as the merchant acquirer for local merchants. Under network card license arrangements, partners are licensed to issue American Express-branded cards on our network. For the year ended December 31, 2019, worldwide network services billed business (spending on American Express cards issued by third parties) was $170 billion and at December 31, 2019, we had 44 million cards-in-force issued by third parties worldwide. GMNS also provides fraud-prevention tools, marketing solutions, data analytics and other programs and services to merchants and other partners that leverage the capabilities of our integrated payments platform. 2 Table of Contents Diverse Customer Base and Global Footprint The following charts provide a summary of our diverse set of customers and broad geographic footprint: Partners and Relationships Our integrated payments platform allows us to work with a range of business partners, and our partners in return help drive the scale and relevance of the platform. There are many examples of how we connect partners with our integrated payments platform, including: issuing cards under cobrand arrangements with other corporations and institutions (e.g., Delta Air Lines, Marriott International, British Airways and Hilton Worldwide Holdings); offering innovative ways for our Card Members to earn and use points with our merchants (e.g., Pay with Points at Amazon.com); expanding merchant acceptance with third-party acquirers and processors (e.g., OptBlue partners); developing new capabilities and features with our digital partners (e.g., PayPal and Venmo); integrating into the supplier payment processes of our corporate card clients (e.g., SAP Ariba); and extending the platform into travel services with American Express leisure and business travel (e.g., Fine Hotels and Resorts). Delta Air Lines is our largest strategic partner. Our relationships with, and revenues and expenses related to, Delta are significant and represent a significant source of value for our Card Members. We issue cards under cobrand arrangements with Delta and the Delta cobrand portfolio represented approximately 8 percent of our worldwide billed business and approximately 22 percent of worldwide Card Member loans as of December 31, 2019. The Delta cobrand portfolio generates fee revenue and interest income from Card Members and discount revenue from Delta and other merchants for spending on Delta cobrand cards. During 2019, we signed an 11-year renewal extending the Delta cobrand relationship through the end of 2029 and expect to continue to make significant investments in this partnership going forward. Among other things, Delta is also a key participant in our Membership Rewards program, provides travel-related benefits and services, including airport lounge access for certain American Express Card Members, accepts American Express cards as a merchant and is a corporate payments customer. Working with all of our partners, we will continue to seek to provide value, choice and unique experiences across our customer base. Our Spend-Centric Model and Revenue Mix Our spend-centric business model focuses on generating revenues primarily by driving spending on our cards and secondarily through finance charges and fees. Spending on our cards, which is higher on average on a per-card basis versus our competitors, offers superior value to merchants in the form of loyal customers and larger transactions. Because of the revenues generated from having high-spending Card Members and the annual card fees we charge on many of our products, we are able to invest in attractive rewards and other benefits for Card Members, as well as targeted marketing and other programs and investments for merchants. This creates incentives for Card Members to spend more on their cards and positively differentiates American Express cards. We believe our spend-centric model gives us the ability to provide differentiated value to Card Members, merchants and business partners. 3 Table of Contents The American Express Brand and Service Excellence Our brand and its attributes trust, security and service are key assets. We invest heavily in managing, marketing, promoting and protecting our brand, including through the delivery of our products and services in a manner consistent with our brand promise. The American Express brand is consistently ranked as one of the most valuable brands in the world. We place significant importance on trademarks, service marks and patents, and seek to secure our intellectual property rights around the world. We aim to provide the world s best customer experience every day and our reputation for world-class service has been recognized by numerous awards over the years. Our customer care professionals and partners treat servicing interactions as an opportunity to bring the brand to life for our customers, add meaningful value and deepen relationships. Our Business Strategies We seek to grow our business by focusing on four strategic imperatives: First, we aim to expand our leadership in the premium consumer space by continuing to deliver membership benefits that span our customers everyday spending, borrowing, travel and lifestyle needs, expanding our roster of business partners around the globe and developing a range of experiences that attract high-spending customers. Second, we will look to build on our strong position in commercial payments by evolving our card value propositions, further differentiating our corporate card and accounts payable expense management solutions, and designing innovative products and features, including financing and supplier payment solutions for our business customers. Third, we are focused on strengthening our global network to provide unique value by continuing to help merchants navigate the convergence of online and offline commerce with fraud protection services, marketing insights and digital connections to higher-spending Card Members, and continuing to work with our network partners to offer expanded products and services. Finally, we want to continue to make American Express an essential part of our customers digital lives by developing more digital features, solutions and services, expanding our digital partnerships and making targeted acquisitions. COMPETITION We compete in the global payments industry with card networks, issuers and acquirers, paper-based transactions (e.g., cash and checks), bank transfer models (e.g., wire transfers and Automated Clearing House, or ACH), as well as evolving and growing alternative payment and financing providers. As the payments industry continues to evolve, we face increasing competition from non-traditional players that leverage new technologies, business models and customer relationships to create payment or financing solutions. As a card issuer, we compete with financial institutions that issue general-purpose charge and credit cards and debit cards. We also encounter competition from businesses that issue their own private label cards, operate their own mobile wallets or extend credit to their customers. We face intense competition for cobrand relationships, as both card issuer and network competitors have targeted key business partners with attractive value propositions. Our global card network competes in the global payments industry with other card networks, including, among others, China UnionPay, Visa, Mastercard, JCB, Discover and Diners Club International (which is owned by Discover). We are the fourth largest general-purpose card network globally based on purchase volume, behind China UnionPay, Visa and Mastercard. In addition to such networks, a range of companies globally, including merchant acquirers, processors and web- and mobile-based payment platforms (e.g., Alipay, PayPal and Venmo), as well as regional payment networks (such as the National Payments Corporation of India), carry out some activities similar to those performed by our GMNS business. The principal competitive factors that affect the card-issuing, merchant and network businesses include: The features, value and quality of the products and services, including customer care, rewards programs, partnerships, benefits and digital and mobile services, and the costs associated with providing such features and services Reputation and brand recognition The number, spending characteristics and credit performance of customers 4 Table of Contents The quantity, diversity and quality of the establishments where the cards can be used The attractiveness of the value proposition to card issuers, merchant acquirers, cardholders, corporate clients and merchants (including the relative cost of using or accepting the products and services, and capabilities such as fraud prevention and data analytics) The number and quality of other payment cards and other forms of payment available to customers The success of marketing and promotional campaigns The speed of innovation and investment in systems, technologies, and product and service offerings The nature and quality of expense management tools, electronic payment methods and data capture and reporting capabilities, particularly for business customers The security of cardholder and merchant information Another aspect of competition is the dynamic and rapid growth of alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products, which include payment aggregators (e.g., PayPal, Square and Amazon), marketplace lenders, wireless payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), financial technology companies, electronic wallet and push payment providers (including handset manufacturers, telecommunication providers, retailers, banks and technology companies), digital currencies developed by both governments and the private sector, blockchain and similar distributed ledger technologies, real-time settlement and processing, prepaid systems and gift cards, and systems linked to payment cards or that provide payment solutions. Various competitors are working to integrate more financial services into their product offerings and competitors are attempting to replicate our closed-loop functionality, such as the merchant-processing platform ChaseNet. New payments competitors continue to emerge in response to evolving technologies, consumer habits and merchant needs. In addition to the discussion in this section, see Our operating results may materially suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry in Risk Factors for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business, and Our business is subject to comprehensive government regulation and supervision, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and Legal proceedings regarding provisions in our merchant contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and result in additional litigation and/or arbitrations, substantial monetary damages and damage to our reputation and brand in Risk Factors for a discussion of the potential impact on our ability to compete effectively due to government regulations or if ongoing legal proceedings limit our ability to prevent merchants from engaging in various actions to discriminate against our card products. 5 Table of Contents SUPERVISION AND REGULATION Overview We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision in jurisdictions around the world, and the costs of compliance are substantial. In recent years, the financial services industry has been subject to rigorous scrutiny, high regulatory expectations, an increasing range of regulations and a stringent and unpredictable enforcement environment. Governmental authorities have focused, and we believe will continue to focus, considerable attention on reviewing compliance by financial services firms with laws and regulations, and as a result, we continually work to evolve and improve our risk management framework, governance structures, practices and procedures. Reviews to assess compliance with laws and regulations by governmental authorities, as well as our own internal reviews, have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, changes to our products, practices and procedures, restitution to our customers and increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination. We have also been subject to regulatory actions and may continue to be the subject of such actions, including governmental inquiries, investigations, enforcement proceedings and the imposition of fines or civil money penalties, in the event of noncompliance or alleged noncompliance with laws or regulations. In addition, legislators and regulators in various countries in which we operate have focused on the operation of card networks, including through antitrust actions, legislation and regulations to change certain practices or pricing of card issuers, merchant acquirers and payment networks, and, in some cases, to establish broad and ongoing regulatory oversight regimes for payment systems. See Risk Factors Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks for a discussion of the potential impact legislative and regulatory changes may have on our results of operations and financial condition. Banking Regulation Federal and state banking laws, regulations and policies extensively regulate the Company (which, for purposes of this section, refers to American Express Company as a bank holding company), TRS and our U.S. bank subsidiary, American Express National Bank (AENB). Both the Company and TRS are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve and AENB is likewise supervised, regulated and examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). The Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to the rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Banking regulators have broad examination and enforcement power, including the power to impose substantial fines, limit dividends and other capital distributions, restrict operations and acquisitions and require divestitures. Many aspects of our business also are subject to rigorous regulation by other U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and by non-U.S. government agencies and regulatory bodies. The Federal Reserve has established a new rating system for large financial institutions, such as the Company, which is intended to align with the Federal Reserve s existing supervisory program for large financial institutions and which includes component ratings for capital planning, liquidity risk management, and governance and controls. In August 2017 and January 2018, the Federal Reserve proposed related guidance for the governance and controls component. Activities The BHC Act generally limits bank holding companies to activities that are considered to be banking activities and certain closely related activities. As noted above, each of the Company and TRS is a bank holding company and each has elected to become a financial holding company, which is authorized to engage in a broader range of financial and related activities. In order to remain eligible for financial holding company status, we must meet certain eligibility requirements. Those requirements include that each of the Company and AENB must be well capitalized and well managed, and AENB must have received at least a satisfactory rating on its most recent assessment under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the CRA). The Company and TRS engage in various activities permissible only for financial holding companies, including, in particular, providing travel agency services, acting as a finder and engaging in certain insurance underwriting and agency services. If the Company fails to meet eligibility requirements for financial holding company status, it is likely to be barred from engaging in new types of financial activities or making certain types of acquisitions or investments in reliance on its status as a financial holding company, and ultimately could be required to either discontinue the broader range of activities permitted to financial holding companies or divest AENB. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are prohibited by law from engaging in practices that the relevant regulatory authority deems unsafe or unsound (which such authorities generally interpret broadly). 6 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Investments Applicable federal and state laws place limitations on the ability of persons to invest in or acquire control of us without providing notice to or obtaining the approval of one or more of our regulators. In addition, we are subject to banking laws and regulations that limit our investments and acquisitions and, in some cases, subject them to the prior review and approval of our regulators, including the Federal Reserve and the OCC. Federal banking regulators have broad discretion in evaluating proposed acquisitions and investments that are subject to their prior review or approval. Financial Regulatory Reform In October 2019, the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies finalized rules that tailor the application of the enhanced prudential standards to bank holding companies and depository institutions (the Tailoring Rules) pursuant to the amendments to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd Frank) introduced by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act. The Tailoring Rules assign each U.S. bank holding company with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as well as its bank subsidiaries, to one of four categories based on its status as a U.S. global systemically important banking organization and five other risk-based indicators: (i) size, (ii) cross-jurisdictional activity, (iii) non-bank assets, (iv) off-balance sheet exposure, and (v) weighted short-term wholesale funding. Under the Tailoring Rules, the Company (and, pursuant to the Tailoring Rules, its depository institution subsidiary, AENB) is subject to Category IV standards. As a Category IV firm, the Company is, among other things, (i) no longer subject to the advanced approaches capital requirements, (ii) no longer subject to the supplementary leverage ratio (SLR), (iii) no longer subject to the countercyclical capital buffer, (iv) no longer subject to company-run stress testing requirements, (v) subject to supervisory stress testing on an every-other-year basis rather than an annual basis, and (vi) no longer subject to the requirement to prepare and submit a holding company-level resolution plan. In addition, as a Category IV firm with less than $50 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, the Company is no longer subject to the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR). Because a firm s categorization under the Tailoring Rules is determined by, and can change over time dependent upon, how the firm measures against the risk-based indicator thresholds, we are required to monitor and periodically report these risk-based indicators and there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be a Category IV firm in the future. Stress Testing and Capital Planning Under the Federal Reserve s regulations, the Company is subject to supervisory stress testing requirements that are designed to evaluate whether a bank holding company has sufficient capital on a total consolidated basis to absorb losses and support operations under adverse economic conditions. As a Category IV firm, the Company will be subject to the Federal Reserve s supervisory stress tests every other year, beginning in 2020, rather than on an annual cycle. We remain subject to the requirement to develop and submit to the Federal Reserve an annual capital plan. The Federal Reserve has stated it plans to propose changes, which would include providing firms subject to Category IV standards additional flexibility to develop their capital plans. As part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), the Federal Reserve evaluates whether the Company has sufficient capital to continue operations by assessing our pro-forma capital position and ratios under a scenario of economic and financial market stress. Sufficient capital for these purposes is likely to require us to maintain capital ratios appreciably above applicable minimum requirements and buffers. The Federal Reserve is expected to publish the decisions for all the bank holding companies participating in CCAR, including the reasons for any objection to capital plans, by June 30. In addition, the Federal Reserve will publish separately the results of its supervisory stress test under the supervisory severely adverse scenario. The information to be released will include, among other things, the Federal Reserve s projection of company-specific information, including post-stress capital ratio information over the planning horizon. We may be required to revise and resubmit our capital plan as required by the Federal Reserve following certain events, such as a significant acquisition. In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the Federal Reserve s non-objection to our capital plan. Dividends and Other Capital Distributions The Company and TRS, as well as AENB and the Company s insurance and other regulated subsidiaries, are limited in their ability to pay dividends by statutes, regulations and supervisory policy. Dividend payments by the Company to shareholders are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. See Stress Testing and Capital Planning. Even if the Federal Reserve has not objected to a distribution, the Company may still not make a distribution 7 Table of Contents without Federal Reserve approval if, among other things, the Company would not meet a minimum regulatory capital ratio after giving effect to the capital distribution, changes in facts would require resubmission of our capital plan or the Company s earnings are materially underperforming its projections in the capital plan. In general, federal laws and regulations prohibit, without first obtaining the OCC s approval, AENB from making dividend distributions to TRS, if such distributions are not paid out of available recent earnings or would cause AENB to fail to meet capital adequacy standards. In addition to specific limitations on the dividends AENB can pay to TRS, federal banking regulators have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of a dividend if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the institution. Capital, Leverage and Liquidity Regulation Capital Rules The Company and AENB are required to comply with the applicable capital adequacy rules established by federal banking regulators. These rules are intended to ensure that bank holding companies and depository institutions (collectively, banki