ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview American Express is a globally integrated payments company that provides our customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. We are a leader in providing credit and charge cards to consumers, small businesses, mid-sized companies and large corporations around the world. American Express cards issued by us, as well as by third-party banks and other institutions on the American Express network, can be used by Card Members to charge purchases at the millions of merchants around the world that accept cards bearing our logo. Our various products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups through various channels, including mobile and online applications, affiliate marketing, customer referral programs, third-party service providers and business partners, direct mail, telephone, in-house sales teams and direct response advertising. We were founded in 1850 as a joint stock association and were incorporated in 1965 as a New York corporation. American Express Company and its principal operating subsidiary, American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (TRS), are bank holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHC Act), subject to supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve). We principally engage in businesses comprising three reportable operating segments: Global Consumer Services Group (GCSG), Global Commercial Services (GCS) and Global Merchant and Network Services (GMNS). Corporate functions and certain other businesses are included in Corporate Other. Our businesses are global in scope and function together to form our end-to-end integrated payments platform, which we believe is a differentiator that underpins our business model. While our business was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, we believe our growth momentum through 2021 strengthens our focus on our strategic imperatives and the resilience of our differentiated business model. For further information about our reportable operating segments, please see Business Segment Results of Operations under MD A. 1 Table of Contents Our Integrated Payments Platform Through our general-purpose card-issuing, merchant-acquiring and card network businesses, we are able to connect participants and provide differentiated value across the commerce path. We maintain direct relationships with both our Card Members (as a card issuer) and merchants (as an acquirer), and we handle all key aspects of those relationships. These relationships create a closed loop in that we have direct access to information at both ends of the card transaction, which distinguishes our integrated payments platform from the bankcard networks. Our integrated payments platform allows us to analyze information on Card Member spending and build algorithms and other analytical tools that we use to underwrite risk, reduce fraud and provide targeted marketing and other information services for merchants and special offers and services to Card Members, all while respecting Card Member preferences and protecting Card Member and merchant data in compliance with applicable policies and legal requirements. Through contractual relationships, we also obtain information from third-party card issuers, merchant acquirers, aggregators and processors with whom we do business. Card Issuing Businesses Our global proprietary card-issuing businesses are conducted through our GCSG and GCS reportable operating segments. We offer a broad set of card products, rewards and services to a diverse consumer and commercial customer base, in the United States and internationally. We acquire and retain high-spending, engaged and creditworthy Card Members by: Designing innovative products and features that appeal to our target customer base and meet their spending and borrowing needs Using incentives to drive spending on our various card products and engender loyal Card Members, including our Membership Rewards program, cash-back reward features and participation in loyalty programs sponsored by our cobrand and other partners Providing digital and mobile services and an array of benefits and experiences across card products, such as airport lounge access, dining experiences and other travel and lifestyle benefits, which we believe are difficult for others to replicate and help increase Card Member engagement Creating world-class service experiences by delivering exceptional customer care Developing a wide range of partner relationships, including with other corporations and institutions that sponsor certain of our cards under cobrand arrangements and provide benefits and services to our Card Members Over the last several years, we have focused on broadening the appeal of our products to attract new customers, particularly Millennial and Gen Z customers, as well as expanding our position with small and mid-sized enterprise (SME) customers by providing more ways to help them manage and grow their businesses. During 2020, we enhanced our value propositions on many of our products, including adjusting our rewards programs and adding limited time offers and statement credits in categories that were relevant to how customer spending behaviors were changing, such as wireless telephone services, streaming services, business essentials and food delivery. We also enhanced and expanded our financial relief programs to assist our customers who faced financial hardships. As the pandemic continued, we made the decision to increase investments to drive customer acquisition, engagement and retention. These initiatives have driven retention and satisfaction metrics higher than pre-pandemic levels. During 2021, we relaunched our consumer Platinum Card and Business Platinum Card in the United States and introduced our first business checking account product and new digital capabilities, in part resulting from the Kabbage technology platform we acquired in 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, worldwide billed business (spending on American Express cards issued by us) was $1.1 trillion and at December 31, 2021, we had 71.4 million proprietary cards-in-force worldwide. Merchant Acquiring Business Our GMNS reportable operating segment builds and manages relationships with millions of merchants around the world that choose to accept American Express cards. This includes signing new merchants to accept our cards, agreeing on the discount rate (a fee charged to the merchant for accepting our cards) and handling servicing for merchants. We also build and maintain relationships with merchant acquirers, aggregators and processors to manage aspects of our merchant services business. For example, through our OptBlue merchant-acquiring program, third-party acquirers contract directly with small merchants for card acceptance on our network and determine merchant pricing. We continue to grow merchant acceptance of American Express cards around the world and work with merchant partners so that our Card Members are warmly welcomed and encouraged to spend in the millions of places where their American Express cards are accepted. 2 Table of Contents GMNS also provides fraud-prevention tools, marketing solutions, data analytics and other programs and services to merchants and other partners that leverage the capabilities of our integrated payments platform. During the pandemic, we increased our investments in our Shop Small campaigns to support small businesses around the world, created a Stand for Small coalition and supported minority-owned small businesses in the United States. We launched debit capabilities on the American Express network and in 2021 introduced our first-ever proprietary debit card in connection with the business checking account product mentioned above. Card Network Business We operate a payments network through which we establish and maintain relationships with third-party banks and other institutions in approximately 103 countries and territories, licensing the American Express brand and extending the reach of our global network. These network partners are licensed to issue local currency American Express-branded cards in their countries and/or serve as the merchant acquirer for local merchants on our network. During 2021, we continued to grow our business in China through our joint venture with Lianlian DigiTech Co., Ltd, a Chinese fintech services company. For the year ended December 31, 2021, worldwide network services processed volume (spending on American Express cards issued by third parties) was $194.4 billion and at December 31, 2021, we had 50.3 million cards-in-force issued by third parties worldwide. Diverse Customer Base and Global Footprint Our broad and diverse customer base spans consumers, small businesses, mid-sized companies and large corporations around the world. The following charts provide a summary of our diverse set of customers and broad geographic footprint based on worldwide network volumes: 3 Table of Contents Partners and Relationships Our integrated payments platform allows us to work with a range of business partners, and our partners in return help drive the scale and relevance of the platform. There are many examples of how we connect partners with our integrated payments platform, including: issuing cards under cobrand arrangements with other corporations and institutions (e.g., Delta Air Lines, Marriott International, Hilton Worldwide Holdings and British Airways); offering innovative ways for our Card Members to earn and use points with our merchants (e.g., Pay with Points at Amazon.com); expanding merchant acceptance with third-party acquirers (e.g., OptBlue partners); developing new capabilities and features with our digital partners (e.g., PayPal); integrating into the supplier payment processes of our business customers (e.g., Bill.com, SAP Ariba and Coupa); and extending the platform into travel services with American Express leisure and business travel (e.g., Fine Hotels and Resorts). Delta Air Lines is our largest strategic partner. Our relationships with, and revenues and expenses related to, Delta are significant and represent an important source of value for our Card Members. We issue cards under cobrand arrangements with Delta and the Delta cobrand portfolio represented approximately 9 percent of worldwide network volumes and approximately 21 percent of worldwide Card Member loans as of December 31, 2021. The Delta cobrand portfolio generates fee revenue and interest income from Card Members and discount revenue from Delta and other merchants for spending on Delta cobrand cards. The current Delta cobrand agreement runs through the end of 2029 and we expect to continue to make significant investments in this partnership. Among other things, Delta is also a key participant in our Membership Rewards program, provides travel-related benefits and services, including airport lounge access for certain American Express Card Members, accepts American Express cards as a merchant and is a corporate payments customer. Working with all of our partners, we seek to provide value, choice and unique experiences across our customer base. Our Spend-Centric Model and Revenue Mix Our spend-centric business model focuses on generating revenues primarily by driving spending on our cards and secondarily through finance charges and fees. Spending on our cards, which is higher on average on a per-card basis versus our competitors, offers superior value to merchants in the form of loyal customers and larger transactions. Because of the revenues generated from having high-spending Card Members and the annual card fees we charge on many of our products, we are able to invest in attractive rewards and other benefits for Card Members, as well as targeted marketing and other programs and investments for merchants. This creates incentives for Card Members to spend more on their cards and positively differentiates American Express cards. We believe our spend-centric model gives us the ability to provide differentiated value to Card Members, merchants and business partners. The American Express Brand and Service Excellence Our brand and its attributes trust, security and service are key assets. We invest heavily in managing, marketing, promoting and protecting our brand, including through the delivery of our products and services in a manner consistent with our brand promise. The American Express brand is ranked among the most valuable brands in the world. We place significant importance on trademarks, service marks and patents, and seek to secure our intellectual property rights around the world. We aim to provide the world s best customer experience every day and our reputation for world-class service has been recognized by numerous awards over the years. Our customer care professionals, travel consultants and partners treat servicing interactions as an opportunity to bring the brand to life for our customers, add meaningful value and deepen relationships. 4 Table of Contents Our Business Strategies During 2021, we focused on investing to rebuild growth momentum by firing up our core business, scaling next-horizon opportunities and continuing to retain financial flexibility. Over the longer term, we seek to grow our business by focusing on four strategic imperatives: First, we aim to expand our leadership in the premium consumer space by continuing to deliver membership benefits that span our customers everyday spending, borrowing, travel and lifestyle needs, expanding our roster of business partners around the globe and developing a range of experiences that attract high-spending customers. Second, we seek to build on our strong position in commercial payments by evolving our card value propositions, further differentiating our corporate card and accounts payable expense management solutions and designing innovative products and features, including financing, banking and payment solutions for our business customers. Third, we are focused on strengthening our global network to provide unique value by continuing to help merchants navigate the convergence of online and offline commerce with fraud protection services, marketing insights and digital connections to higher-spending Card Members and continuing to work with our network partners to offer expanded products and services. Finally, we want to continue to make American Express an essential part of our customers digital lives by developing more digital features, solutions and services, expanding our digital partnerships and making targeted acquisitions. We also have an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy that focuses on three pillars. The Promoting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE I) pillar supports a diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce, marketplace and society. The Building Financial Confidence pillar seeks to provide responsible, secure and transparent products and services to help people and businesses build financial resilience. Finally, the Advancing Climate Solutions pillar focuses on enhancing our operations and capabilities to meet customer and community needs in the transition to a low-carbon future. 5 Table of Contents Our Colleagues We are committed to delivering a great colleague experience every day. We work to foster an inclusive and diverse culture and help our colleagues grow in their careers and thrive both professionally and personally. As a result, we believe our colleagues are more engaged, committed, creative and effective in driving results. At the heart of our culture is what we call our Blue Box Values a set of guiding principles that reflect who we are and what we stand for: We Back Our Customers We Embrace Diversity We Make It Great We Stand for Inclusion We Do What's Right We Win as A Team We Respect People We Support Our Communities As of December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 64,000 people, whom we refer to as colleagues, with approximately 22,000 colleagues in the United States and approximately 42,000 colleagues outside the United States. To attract and retain the best talent, we continuously invest in programs, benefits and resources to foster the personal and professional growth of our colleagues. We provide learning opportunities in many forms, including tools and guidance for maximizing learning on the job; cross-border and cross-business unit assignments; career coaching, mentoring, and professional networking; rotation opportunities; virtual learning sessions; and formal classroom instruction. We take a holistic approach to well-being, providing resources that address the physical, financial and emotional health of our colleagues. Throughout the pandemic, one of our top priorities has been to ensure our colleagues have the flexibility and resources they need to stay safe, healthy and productive. We conduct an annual Colleague Experience Survey to better understand our colleagues needs and overall experience at American Express and in 2021, 90 percent of colleagues who participated in the survey said they would recommend American Express as a great place to work. Our 2021 annual company scorecard included talent retention and diversity representation goals to increase minority and women representation and retain our key talent. While we experienced an increase in colleague attrition in 2021, our high potential and multi-year high performer retention rates met or exceeded our goals. As of December 31, 2021, women represented 52.9 percent of our global workforce and Asian, Black/African American and Hispanic/Latinx people represented 19.5 percent, 13.3 percent and 13.8 percent, respectively, of our U.S. workforce based on preliminary data for our 2021 U.S. EEO-1 submission. We regularly review our compensation practices to ensure colleagues in the same job, level and location are compensated fairly regardless of gender globally, and race and ethnicity in the United States. These reviews consider several factors known to affect compensation, including role, level, tenure, performance and geography. In the instances where a review has found inconsistencies, we have made adjustments. After making these adjustments, we believe we maintained 100 percent pay equity in 2021 for colleagues across genders globally and across races and ethnicities in the United States. 6 Table of Contents Information About Our Executive Officers Set forth below, in alphabetical order, is a list of our executive officers as of February 11, 2022, including each executive officer s principal occupation and employment during the past five years and reflecting recent organizational changes. None of our executive officers has any family relationship with any other executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other person. Each executive officer has been elected to serve until the next annual election of officers or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Each officer s age is indicated by the number in parentheses next to his or her name. DOUGLAS E. BUCKMINSTER Vice Chairman and Group President, Global Consumer Services Group Mr. Buckminster (61) has been Vice Chairman since April 2021 and Group President, Global Consumer Services Group since February 2018. Prior thereto, he had been President, Global Consumer Services Group since October 2015. JEFFREY C. CAMPBELL Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Mr. Campbell (61) has been Vice Chairman since April 2021 and Chief Financial Officer since August 2013. MONIQUE HERENA Chief Colleague Experience Officer Ms. Herena (50) has been Chief Colleague Experience Officer since April 2019. Ms. Herena joined American Express from BNY Mellon, where she served as the Chief Human Resources Officer and Senior Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Marketing and Communications since 2014. RAYMOND JOABAR Group President, Global Merchant and Network Services Mr. Joabar (56) has been Group President, Global Merchant and Network Services since April 2021. Prior thereto, he had been President, Global Risk and Compliance and Chief Risk Officer since September 2019. He also served as President of International Consumer Services and Global Travel and Lifestyle Services from February 2018 to September 2019 and as Executive Vice President, Global Servicing Network from February 2016 to February 2018. ANNA MARRS Group President, Global Commercial Services and Credit Fraud Risk Ms. Marrs (48) has been Group President, Global Commercial Services and Credit Fraud Risk since April 2021. Prior thereto, she had been President, Global Commercial Services since September 2018. Ms. Marrs joined American Express from Standard Chartered Bank, where she served as Regional CEO, ASEAN and South Asia since November 2016. DAVID NIGRO Chief Risk Officer Mr. Nigro (60) has been Chief Risk Officer since April 2021. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, Global Consumer Services and Credit and Fraud Risk Capability since April 2018 and Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, U.S. Consumer Card Services since December 2013. DENISE PICKETT President, Global Services Group Ms. Pickett (56) has been President, Global Services Group since September 2019. Prior thereto, she had been Chief Risk Officer and President, Global Risk, Banking Compliance since February 2018 and President, U.S. Consumer Services from October 2015 to February 2018. RAVI RADHAKRISHNAN Chief Information Officer Mr. Radhakrishnan (50) has been Chief Information Officer since January 2022. Mr. Radhakrishnan joined American Express from Wells Fargo Company, where he served as Chief Information Officer for the Commercial Banking and Corporate Investment Banking businesses since May 2020. Prior thereto, he had been Chief Information Officer, Wholesale, Wealth Investment Management and Innovation from May 2019 to May 2020. He also served as Enterprise Chief Information Officer from March 2017 to May 2019 and as Chief Information Officer, Wholesale Banking from October 2015 to March 2017. ELIZABETH RUTLEDGE Chief Marketing Officer Ms. Rutledge (60) has been Chief Marketing Officer since February 2018. Prior thereto, she had been Executive Vice President, Global Advertising Media since February 2016. LAUREEN E. SEEGER Chief Legal Officer Ms. Seeger (60) has been Chief Legal Officer since July 2014. 7 Table of Contents JENNIFER SKYLER Corporate Affairs Officer Ms. Skyler (45) has been Corporate Affairs Officer since October 2019. Ms. Skyler joined American Express from WeWork, where she served as Chief Communications Officer from January 2018 to September 2019. Prior thereto, she had been Global Head of Public Affairs from January 2016 to January 2018. STEPHEN J. SQUERI Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Squeri (62) has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since February 2018. Prior thereto, he had been Vice Chairman since July 2015. ANR WILLIAMS Group President, Enterprise Services Mr. Williams (56) has been Group President, Enterprise Services since April 2021. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, Global Merchant and Network Services since February 2018 and President of Global Merchant Services and Loyalty since October 2015. Mr. Williams also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of American Express National Bank. 8 Table of Contents COMPETITION We compete in the global payments industry with card networks, issuers and acquirers, paper-based transactions (e.g., cash and checks), bank transfer models (e.g., wire transfers and Automated Clearing House, or ACH), as well as evolving and growing alternative mechanisms, systems and products that leverage new technologies, business models and customer relationships to create payment or financing solutions. The payments industry continues to undergo dynamic changes in response to evolving technologies, consumer habits and merchant needs, some of which have accelerated as a result of the pandemic, such as an increased shift to e-commerce and demand for contactless payments. As a card issuer, we compete with financial institutions that issue general-purpose credit and debit cards. We also encounter competition from businesses that issue private label cards, operate mobile wallets or extend credit. We face intense competition in the premium space and for cobrand relationships, as both card issuer and network competitors have targeted high-spending customers and key business partners with attractive value propositions. We also face competition for partners and other differentiated offerings, such as lounge space in U.S. and global hub airports. Our global card network competes in the global payments industry with other card networks, including, among others, China UnionPay, Visa, Mastercard, JCB, Discover and Diners Club International (which is owned by Discover). We are the fourth largest general-purpose card network globally based on purchase volume, behind China UnionPay, Visa and Mastercard. In addition to such networks, a range of companies globally, including merchant acquirers, processors and web- and mobile-based payment platforms (e.g., Alipay, PayPal and Venmo), as well as regional payment networks (such as the National Payments Corporation of India), carry out some activities similar to those performed by our GMNS business. The principal competitive factors that affect the card-issuing, merchant and network businesses include: The features, value and quality of the products and services, including customer care, rewards programs, partnerships, travel and lifestyle-related benefits, and digital and mobile services, as well as the costs associated with providing such features and services Reputation and brand recognition The number, spending characteristics and credit performance of customers The quantity, diversity and quality of the establishments where the cards can be used The attractiveness of the value proposition to card issuers, merchant acquirers, cardholders, corporate clients and merchants (including the relative cost of using or accepting the products and services, and capabilities such as fraud prevention and data analytics) The number and quality of other cards and other forms of payment and financing available to customers The success of marketing and promotional campaigns The speed of innovation and investment in systems, technologies, and product and service offerings The nature and quality of expense management tools, electronic payment methods and data capture and reporting capabilities, particularly for business customers The security of cardholder, merchant and network partner information Another aspect of competition is the dynamic and rapid growth of alternative payment and financing mechanisms, systems and products, which include payment aggregators, digital payment and electronic wallet platforms, point-of-sale lenders and buy now, pay later products, real-time settlement and processing systems, financial technology companies, digital currencies developed by both central banks and the private sector, blockchain and similar distributed ledger technologies, prepaid systems and gift cards, and systems linked to customer accounts or that provide payment solutions. Various competitors are integrating more financial services into their product offerings and competitors are seeking to attain the benefits of closed-loop, loyalty and rewards functionalities, such as ours. 9 Table of Contents In addition to the discussion in this section, see Our operating results may materially suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry in Risk Factors for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business, and Our business is subject to comprehensive government regulation and supervision, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and Legal proceedings regarding provisions in our merchant contracts, including non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions, could have a material adverse effect on our business and result in additional litigation and/or arbitrations, changes to our merchant agreements and/or business practices, substantial monetary damages and damage to our reputation and brand in Risk Factors for a discussion of the potential impact on our ability to compete effectively due to government regulations or if ongoing legal proceedings limit our ability to prevent merchants from engaging in various actions to discriminate against our card products. 10 Table of Contents SUPERVISION AND REGULATION Overview We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision in jurisdictions around the world, and the costs of compliance are substantial. The financial services industry is subject to rigorous scrutiny, high regulatory expectations, a range of regulations and a stringent and unpredictable enforcement environment. Governmental authorities have focused, and we believe will continue to focus, considerable attention on reviewing compliance by financial services firms with laws and regulations, and as a result, we continually work to evolve and improve our risk management framework, governance structures, practices and procedures. Reviews by us and governmental authorities to assess compliance with laws and regulations, as well as our own internal reviews to assess compliance with internal policies, including errors or misconduct by colleagues or third parties or control failures, have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, changes to our products, practices and procedures, restitution to our customers and increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination. We have also been subject to regulatory actions and may continue to be the subject of such actions, including gove