Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A . Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [Reserved] 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 86 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 86 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 172 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 172 Item 9B. Other Information 172 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 172 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 172 Item 11. Executive Compensation 173 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 174 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 174 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 174 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 175 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 178 1 Bank of America Part I Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries Item 1. Business Bank of America Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, Bank of America, the Corporation, we, us and our may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation s organizational structure and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. Bank of America is one of the world s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. Bank of America s website is www.bankofamerica.com, and the Investor Relations portion of our website is https://investor.bankofamerica.com. We use our website to distribute company information, including as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We routinely post and make accessible financial and other information, including environmental, social and governance (ESG) information, regarding the Corporation on our website. Investors should monitor our website, including the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to our press releases, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls and webcasts. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on the Investor Relations portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC and at the SEC s website, www.sec.gov. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information contained on our website as referenced in this paragraph, or otherwise in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, we make available on the Investor Relations portion of our website: (i) our Code of Conduct; (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the Board). Our Code of Conduct constitutes a code of ethics and a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the required individuals associated with the Corporation for purposes of the respective rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. We also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Conduct and waivers of our Code of Conduct required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange on the Investor Relations portion of our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to shareholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, NC1-007-56-06, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. Segments Through our various bank and nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through four business segments: Consumer Banking , Global Wealth Investment Management (GWIM) , Global Banking and Global Markets , with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages 34 through 43 of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) and Note 23 Business Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies, including merchant banks and companies providing nonbank financial services. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product-specific basis. We are increasingly competing with firms offering products solely over the internet and with nonfinancial companies, including firms utilizing emerging technologies, such as digital assets, rather than, or in addition to, traditional banking products. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service and convenience, the pricing, quality and range of products and services offered, lending limits, the quality and delivery of our technology and our reputation, experience and relationships in relevant markets. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and develop, retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. Human Capital Resources We strive to make Bank of America a great place to work for our employees. We value our employees and seek to establish and maintain human resource policies that are consistent with our core values and help to realize the power of our people. Our Board and its Compensation and Human Capital Committee provide oversight of our human capital management strategies, programs, initiatives and practices. The Corporation s senior management provides regular briefings on human capital matters to the Board and its Committees to facilitate the Board s oversight. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Corporation employed approximately 213,000 and 217,000 employees, of which 78 percent and 79 percent were located in the U.S. None of our U.S. employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Additionally, in 2023 and 2022, the Corporation s compensation and benefits expense was $38.3 billion and $36.4 billion, or 58 percent and 59 percent, of total noninterest expense. Bank of America 2 Diversity and Inclusion The Corporation s commitment to diversity and inclusion starts at the top with oversight from our Board and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief Diversity Inclusion Officer partner with our CEO and senior management to drive our diversity and inclusion strategy, programs, initiatives and policies. Our Global Diversity and Inclusion Council, which has been in place for over 20 years, is chaired by our CEO and consists of senior executives from every line of business and region. The Council sponsors and supports business, operating unit and regional diversity and inclusion councils to align diversity and inclusion strategies and aspirational goals across the enterprise. Our practices and policies have resulted in strong representation across the Corporation where our broad employee population mirrors the clients and communities we serve. Our Board and senior management team are 62 percent and 55 percent racially, ethnically and gender diverse. The following table presents diversity metrics for our global employees who self-identified as women and our U.S.-based employees who self-identified as people of color, including those who self-identified as Asian, Black/African American and Hispanic/Latino. These workforce diversity metrics are reported regularly to the senior management team and Board. Diversity Metrics as of December 31, 2023 Total Employees Top Three Management Levels Managers at All Levels Global employees Women 50 % 41 % 42 % U.S.-based employees People of color 51 27 43 Asian 14 11 14 Black/African American 15 8 10 Hispanic/Latino 19 7 16 We invest in our talent by offering a range of development programs and resources that are designed to allow all employees to develop and progress in their careers. We reinforce our commitment to diversity and inclusion by investing internally in our employee networks and by facilitating voluntary enterprise-wide learning and conversations about various diversity and inclusion topics. In addition, we have practices in place for attracting diverse talent, including campus recruitment. For example, in 2023, 44 percent of our global campus hires were women and, in the U.S., 62 percent were people of color. Employee Engagement and Talent Retention As part of our ongoing efforts to make the Corporation a great place to work, we conduct a confidential annual Employee Engagement Survey (Survey) and have done so for nearly two decades. The Survey results are reviewed by the Board and senior management and used to assist in reviewing the Corporation s human capital strategies, programs, initiatives and practices. In 2023, 88 percent of the Corporation s employees participated in the Survey, and our Employee Engagement Index, an overall measure of employee satisfaction with the Corporation, was 87 percent. Our turnover among employees was eight percent in 2023 and 13 percent in 2022. Additionally, the Corporation provides a variety of resources to help employees grow in their current roles and build new skills, including resources to help employees find new opportunities, re-skill and seek leadership positions. The learning and development strategy is grounded in the development of horizontal skills delivered throughout the organization. Senior leaders, managers and teammates are onboarded and build both horizontal and role-specific skills, to help drive high performance. This approach also helps facilitate internal mobility and promotion of talent to build a bench of qualified managers and leaders. In 2023, more than 5,000 employees found new roles within the Corporation, and we delivered approximately 6.7 million hours of training and development to our teammates through Bank of America Academy. Additionally, our Board oversees CEO and senior management succession planning, which is formally reviewed at least annually. Fair and Equitable Compensation Our compensation philosophy is to pay for performance over the long term, as well as on an annual basis. Our performance considerations encompass both financial and nonfinancial measures, including the manner in which results are achieved. These considerations are designed to reinforce and promote our Responsible Growth strategy and maintain alignment with our Risk Framework. The Corporation is committed to racial and gender pay equity and strives to compensate all of our employees fairly and equitably. We maintain robust policies and practices that reinforce our commitment, including reviews conducted by a third-party consultant with oversight from our Board and senior management. In 2023, our review showed that compensation received by women globally, on average, was greater than 99 percent of that received by men in comparable positions. In the U.S., compensation received by people of color was, on average, greater than 99 percent of that received by teammates who are not people of color in comparable positions. We pay our employees fairly based on market rates for their roles, experience and how they perform. We regularly benchmark against other companies both within and outside our industry to confirm our pay is competitive. In 2021, the Corporation announced it would increase its minimum hourly wage for U.S. employees to $25 per hour by 2025. In October 2023, as a next step towards that goal, the Corporation increased its hourly minimum wage for U.S. employees to $23 per hour. In addition, in January 2024, for the seventh year since 2017, we announced that we recognized our teammates with Sharing Success compensation awards for their efforts during 2023. Approximately 97 percent of employees globally will receive an award in the first quarter of 2024. Health and Wellness 2023 Focus The Corporation is also committed to providing employees with access to leading benefits and programs that help promote their physical, emotional and financial wellness. Investments we make in our teammates are designed to help them thrive, both at work and at home, enabling them to better deliver for our clients, communities and each other. We continued our efforts to provide affordable access to healthcare, including offering no-cost, 24/7 access to virtual general medical and behavioral health resources to help our enrolled U.S. teammates stay healthy. We kept U.S. health insurance premiums unchanged for teammates earning less than $50,000 for the eleventh year in a row and had nominal premium increases for teammates earning from $50,000 up to $100,000 for the seventh year in a row. We provided in-network generic prescription medications at no cost for teammates enrolled in a U.S. bank medical PPO or Consumer Direct plan, and we continue to provide preventative care medications at no cost for all teammates enrolled in U.S. medical plans. We also 3 Bank of America continued to enhance access to care across the Corporation, through near-site health centers, vaccination clinics and wellness screenings in many of our U.S. locations, as we believe primary and preventive care are important to our teammates health and safety. We offer an extensive benefit package and support work-life balance for our teammates, which includes in the U.S., 16 weeks of paid parental leave for both primary and secondary caregivers and 50 days per year of child and adult backup dependent care. Globally, teammates and members of their households can utilize our Employee Assistance Program for 12 free, in-person confidential counseling sessions, and unlimited phone consultations. Beginning in 2023, teammates celebrating at least 15 years of continuous service with the Corporation may participate in its global Sabbatical Program. For more information about our human capital management, see the Corporation s website and 2023 Annual Report to shareholders that we expect to be available on the Investor Relations portion of our website in March 2024 (the content of which is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Government Supervision and Regulation The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America. We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. bank subsidiaries (the Banks), organized as national banking associations, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design, implementation and board oversight of BHCs and national banks risk governance frameworks. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered financial in nature as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. The Corporation's status as a financial holding company is conditioned upon maintaining certain eligibility requirements for both the Corporation and its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries, including minimum capital ratios, supervisory ratings and, in the case of the depository institutions, at least satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act ratings. Failure to be an eligible financial holding company could result in the Federal Reserve limiting Bank of America's activities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, we are subject to a significant number of laws, rules and regulations that govern our businesses in the U.S. and in the other jurisdictions in which we operate, including permissible activities, minimum levels of capital and liquidity, compliance risk management, consumer products and sales practices, privacy, data protection and executive compensation, among others. The scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased over the past several years, beginning with the response to the 2008 financial crisis, as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. In addition, the banking and financial services sector is subject to substantial regulatory enforcement and fines. Many of these changes have occurred as a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Financial Reform Act). We cannot assess whether or not there will be any additional major changes in the regulatory environment and expect that our business will remain subject to continuing and extensive regulation and supervision. We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our entities, management and ability to make distributions to shareholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and New York Stock Exchange, among others; our futures commission merchant subsidiary supporting commodities and derivatives businesses in the U.S. is subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), National Futures Association, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). In addition, certain U.S. and foreign subsidiaries are also registered with the CFTC as swap dealers, and conditionally registered with the SEC as security-based swap dealers. Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, prudential regulators, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services entities in the United Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and France are subject to regulation by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the European Central Bank and Central Bank of Ireland, and the Autorit de Contr le Prudentiel et de R solution and Autorit des March s Financiers, respectively. The Corporation is also subject to extensive laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. and in the other jurisdictions in which it operates regarding bribery and corruption, know-your-customer requirements, anti-money laundering, embargo programs and economic sanctions. For example, we are subject to the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), which contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws designed to detect and deter money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as well as record-keeping, reporting, due diligence and customer verification requirements, various sanctions programs administered and enforced by the U.S. Department of the Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and foreign jurisdictions, which target entities or individuals that are, or are located in countries that are, involved in activities, such as terrorism, hostilities, drug trafficking or human rights violations and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act, relating to corrupt and illegal payments to government officials and others. Source of Strength Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to Bank of America 4 each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a bank subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC s loss, subject to certain exceptions. Transactions with Affiliates Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving their nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. Deposit Insurance Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits are $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank for each account ownership category. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF. The FDIC is required to maintain a statutory minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. of at least 1.35 percent and has established a long-term goal of a two percent DIF ratio. As of the date of this report, the DIF is below the statutory minimum ratio and the FDIC s long-term goal. In October 2022, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan that includes an increase in deposit insurance assessments across the industry of two basis points (bps). The FDIC has indicated that it intends to maintain such assessment rates for the foreseeable future. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. The FDIC also has the authority to charge special assessments from time to time, including in connection with systemic risk events. For example, on November 16, 2023, the FDIC issued its final rule to impose a special assessment to recover the loss to the DIF resulting from the closure of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank. For more information on the impact to the Corporation of the FDIC special assessment, see Executive Summary Recent Developments in the MD A on page 26. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see