Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 20 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Forward-Looking Statements 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238 ) 40 Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 42 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 43 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2023 and 2022 44 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 45 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 46 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 47 Note 1. Critical and Significant Accounting Policies 47 Note 2. Accounting Pronouncements 58 Note 3. Business Segment Information 59 Note 4. Acquisitions and Dispositions 62 Note 5. Revenue from Contracts with Customers 64 Note 6. Business Consolidation and Other Activities 65 Note 7. Supplemental Cash Flow Statement Disclosures 66 Note 8. Receivables, Net 66 Note 9. Inventories, Net 67 Note 10. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 67 Note 11. Goodwill 68 Note 12. Intangibles Assets, Net 68 Note 13. Other Assets 69 Note 14. Leases 69 Note 15. Debt and Interest Costs 71 Note 16. Taxes on Income 72 Note 17. Employee Benefit Obligations 76 Note 18. Shareholders Equity 85 Note 19. Stock-Based Compensation Programs 87 Note 20. Earnings Per Share 89 Note 21. Financial Instruments and Risk Management 89 Table of Contents Note 22. Contingencies 95 Note 23. Indemnifications and Guarantees 96 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 98 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 98 Item 9B. Other Information 98 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 98 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 99 Item 11. Executive Compensation 99 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 100 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 100 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 100 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 101 Item 16 . Form 10-K Summary 105 Signatures 106 Table of Contents PART I . Item 1. Business Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, Ball, the company, we or our) is one of the world s leading suppliers of aluminum packaging for the beverage, personal care and household products industries. The company was organized in 1880 and incorporated in the state of Indiana, United States of America (U.S.), in 1922. Our sustainable, aluminum packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in facilities around the world. We also provide aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers within our aerospace segment. In 2023, our total consolidated net sales were $14.03 billion. Our packaging businesses were responsible for 86 percent of our net sales, with the remaining 14 percent contributed by our aerospace business. In the third quarter of 2023, Ball entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with BAE Systems, Inc. (BAE), to sell all of the outstanding equity interests in Ball s aerospace business to BAE. On February 16, 2024, the company completed the divestiture of the aerospace business. See Note 4 for further details. Our largest product line is aluminum beverage containers and we also produce extruded aluminum aerosol containers, recloseable aluminum bottles across multiple consumer categories, aluminum slugs and aluminum cups. We sell our aluminum packaging products globally to large multinational beverage, personal care and household products companies with which we have developed long-term relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and large number of long-term supply contracts. While we have a diversified customer base, we sell a significant portion of our packaging products to major companies and brands, as well as to numerous regional customers. Our significant customers include top consumer packaging and beverage companies. Our aerospace business is a leader in delivering solutions ranging from entire missions to contributing component level expertise through the design, development and manufacture of innovative systems for intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance, civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. It produces spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency systems and components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced technologies and products that enable weather prediction and climate change monitoring as well as deep space missions. In the third quarter of 2023, Ball entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with BAE Systems, Inc. (BAE), to sell all of the outstanding equity interests in Ball s aerospace business to BAE. On February 16, 2024, the company completed the divestiture of the aerospace business. See Note 4 for further details. We are headquartered in Westminster, Colorado, and our stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BALL. Our Strategy Advance sustainable aluminum packaging solutions at scale by leveraging our world-class talent, customer and supply chain partnerships, innovative product portfolio and capable manufacturing footprint to deliver single-use, limited-use and reusable aluminum cans, bottles and cups. Maintain a clear and disciplined financial strategy focused on executing an efficient operating model to deliver comparable diluted earnings per share growth of 10 percent to 15 percent per annum over the long-term, maximize cash flow, increase Economic Value Added (EVA ) dollars and return value to shareholders. The cash generated by our businesses is used primarily: (1) to finance the company s operations, (2) to fund growth capital investments, (3) to service the company s debt and (4) to return value to our shareholders via stock buybacks and dividend payments. From time to time, we have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate possible transactions that we believe will benefit the company and our shareholders, which may include strategic acquisitions, divestitures of parts of our company or equity investments. At any time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations at various stages of development with respect to one or more possible transactions or may have entered into non-binding letters of intent. As part of any such initiatives, we may participate in processes being run by other companies or leading our own activities. The compensation of many of our employees is tied directly to the company s performance through our EVA -based incentive programs. 4 Table of Contents Sustainability At Ball Corporation, we deliver circular aluminum packaging solutions. Our business is aligned around cohesive operating priorities focused on constant innovation, product capabilities, sustainability and financial stewardship. Our approach to sustainability has evolved over the past 20 years. Today, Ball s sustainability strategy is driven by high standards around carbon footprint reduction, the circularity of our products and closed-loop recycling. Utilizing strategic partnerships, we work across the value chain towards our 2030 Sustainability Goals in line with our customers needs. Climate leadership and driving real circularity are cornerstones of our business strategy and influence how we manage and operate our businesses, serve our customers, care for the environment and our communities, secure profits and drive long-term prosperity. We focus our sustainability efforts on environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts. This is exhibited through our Climate Transition Plan commitment to achieve a science-based 55 percent reduction in our greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint by 2030 and net zero carbon emissions prior to 2050, in part by reaching 100 percent renewable electricity globally by 2030. In addition, our focus on the health and safety of our employees, diversity and inclusion (D I), and employee development enables Ball to utilize the unmatched talent of our people to maintain an agile workforce. Our innovation and manufacturing teams around the world focus on continuously improving operational efficiency. This focus drives improved processes, including products designed for optimum metal efficiency, real time energy monitoring, and reuse of water, as well as the minimization of waste and spoilage within our manufacturing plants. Our commitment extends beyond our walls and includes purchasing aluminum from Aluminum Stewardship Initiative (ASI) certified sustainable sources and reducing value chain emissions, all in order to facilitate achievement of Ball s and its customers GHG reduction objectives. Today s consumers are choosing brands based on their sustainability and circularity credentials. Ball customers understand this growing priority and their unique position in impacting the environment, especially through the packaging materials they use. Infinitely recyclable aluminum unlocks the full potential of packaging to help customers convey their values and purpose to consumers. We are committed to moving toward a truly circular economy, where materials can be, and actually are, used again and again. Aluminum cans, bottles and cups are an attractive option for sustainability-conscious brands with commitments to real world recyclability and increasing their usage of recycled materials in consumer packaging. Unlike plastic, glass, cartons or compostable containers, aluminum containers are designed to be recycled infinitely without losing quality and retain a high economic value, pushing aluminum collection, sorting and recycling rates to the highest of any beverage packaging material. That is why 75 percent of all aluminum ever produced is still in use today. In addition, growing sustainability compliance costs for substrates with less favorable circularity credentials continue to see their costs of ownership rise in several regions. Aluminum beverage packaging is the leader in real recycling, where the package is collected and then transformed into an item of equal value (product-to-product or material-to-material recycling). In the case of aluminum cans, bottles or cups, which are mono-material, the aluminum can be recycled and made back into the same product in as little as 60 days. In contrast, only 10 percent of all plastic ever produced has been recycled and is mostly only downcycled. Downcycled products, including but not limited to when plastic is converted to become part of a sneaker or fibers in a carpet, are not sustainable because eventually those products end up in landfills. Real recycling happens when the value of the product being recycled is maintained from one use to another. Because recycling aluminum saves resources and uses significantly less energy than primary aluminum production, we are innovating and collaborating with our customers, supply chain, industry groups and other public and private partners to establish and financially support initiatives to increase recycling rates around the world. We work together to create effective collection and recycling systems, and educate consumers about the sustainability and circularity benefits of aluminum packaging. Our aerospace business plays a role in sustainability as well. More and more, our systems are measuring key elements of the physical environment, supporting environmental monitoring, and operational weather forecasting programs, as well as providing environmental intelligence on weather, the Earth's climate system, precipitation, drought, GHG emissions and air pollution, as well as wildlife, vegetation and other biodiversity measurements. The data captured through Ball 5 Table of Contents built instruments and satellites enable and enhance understanding of the Earth s ecosystem and help scientists to pinpoint more accurately what type of GHGs and pollutants are being emitted, where they are coming from, and a precise idea of where they are moving. At Ball, we believe our people and our culture enable our success and make it possible for us to deliver on our promises to customers, investors, communities and all of our stakeholders. We continue to invest in hiring, training and retaining our employees at every level across the organization to ensure we have the right people with the right skills in the right roles, and are providing them with opportunities to advance their careers. In 2023, we introduced our expanded global diversity and inclusion strategy and goals, which will help to ensure that we have a sustainable workforce, and foster a safe and inclusive work environment where everyone feels they belong and are valued for their differences and contributions. A focus on diversity and inclusion among individuals and teams helps to unleash ideas and fuel innovation, driving growth and economic value throughout our global organization. A healthy and sustainable business also depends on thriving communities. Ball s commitment to the communities where we live and operate is an integral part of our corporate culture, as we continue to support organizations, programs and civic initiatives that advance sustainable livelihoods. Community engagement is how our company and our employees enrich the places where we live and work beyond providing jobs, benefits and paying local taxes. Through the Ball Foundation, corporate giving, employee giving and volunteerism, we invest in the future of the communities that sustain us. Each year Ball and its employees donate, volunteer and support non-profit organizations centered on building sustainable communities through recycling, education, and disaster preparedness and relief initiatives. The company s focus towards sustainability has been recognized by external organizations. For the fifth year in a row, Ball received an A- score in CDP s climate change program. In addition, Ball maintained a MSCI AA ESG rating, was included on the 2023 Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and was recognized as one of America s Most Responsible Companies by Newsweek. Human Capital and Employees Ball Corporation s people are its greatest asset and we are proud to outline the material aspects of our human capital program. At the end of 2023, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 21,000 employees, including approximately 10,000 employees in the U.S. Details of collective bargaining agreements are included within Item 1A, Risk Factors of this annual report. Our Culture Embracing our rich 144-year history, we know who we are, a company that respects and values each of our employees and their collective desire to deliver value to all our stakeholders. We embrace our diversity and are one Ball in valuing: Uncompromising integrity; Being close to our customers; Behaving like owners; Focusing on attention to detail; and Being innovative. 6 Table of Contents Diversity and Inclusion D I is key to the sustained success of our business. We established a dedicated D I function in 2015 to build on our longstanding commitment to D I across the company and included D I as an integral part of our goals for sustainability. Over the past eight years, we have made meaningful progress on D I, which has been recognized by external organizations, including Forbes, which recognized Ball as #1 among America s Best Employers for Diversity in 2019, the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD), which recognized Ball as a best place to work for disability inclusion on the 2022 Disability Equality Index, and the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, which listed Ball among the Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality in six out of the last seven years, including a perfect score on its Corporate Equality Index list in 2021 and 2022. Our dedicated D I function reports directly to our Chief Human Resources Officer, and we understand that the key to success is shared accountability rather than designating a single owner for this critical area. Our focus to date has been on our Global D I Strategy which identifies enterprise wide goals related to gender, race and ethnicity (where applicable) and inclusion trainings that reside in our corporate learning management system to provide access and instruction to all Ball employees. As we move forward, we continue to accelerate our D I efforts. In June 2020, we instituted a new global cloud-based human capital management platform that has among many other talent-focused features enabled us to more fully understand employee demographics and identify how we can better enhance our diversity around the world. We will also launch our Global Inclusion Council sponsored by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Human Resource Officer. We continue to evolve our talent acquisition process and focus on diversity for internships, candidate slates, interview panels, talent reviews and succession planning. Each of our business segment leaders has committed to help drive further D I progress during 2024 and beyond. Currently, 45 percent of our board of directors is gender diverse and 36 percent is ethnically diverse, and 44 percent of our company s executive leadership team is gender diverse and 33 percent is ethnically diverse. Talent We seek to attract, develop and retain the best talent throughout the company. During the past decade, we established and expanded our talent management organization with dedicated talent acquisition and development functions that have implemented rigorous hiring and development processes, including standardized assessments for candidate selection, and an embedded Inspire, Connect, Achieve leadership framework, which details clear behaviors that we expect from our people leaders to ensure they align with our culture. We have also strengthened our succession planning through a holistic approach to developing key managers that includes challenging assignments, formal development plans and professional coaching. Training and Development Our global human capital management platform enables rigorous identification, analysis and development of talent around the world. In conjunction with that platform, the company utilizes an approach to performance management focused on development and continuous improvement. This approach emphasizes ongoing performance conversations between managers and employees and a focus on mitigating bias in performance conversations, resulting in an enhanced employee developmental experience and data points for our talent discussions. Additionally, all employees have access to create a personal development plan and we have resources to support employees in their personal and professional development, including: Continuous education through various tuition reimbursement programs, apprenticeship and instructional programs; A corporate academy platform designed to provide employees with a seamless and unified learning experience empowering them to thrive, grow, and reach their fullest potential; Monthly global leadership communications focused on real-time topics, such as supporting team wellbeing, working through stressful times, setting individual development goals, maximizing team performance, sharing practical steps to better enable our collective focus on D I and sharing other best practice leadership behaviors; LinkedIn Learning platform for all corporate and packaging employees; Professional and personal development coaching opportunities by teaming with a global coaching firm; Intentional leadership programs for people leaders at all levels around our Inspire, Connect, and Achieve leadership behaviors; and 7 Table of Contents Annual compliance, antitrust, bribery, corruption and business code of conduct and ethics training for key management level, sales and supply chain employees. Employee Engagement At Ball, we aim to inspire and engage employees so they are focused on the work that matters most, perform their best work and choose Ball every day. To further that objective, our engagement approach focuses on clear communication and recognition. We communicate through quarterly employee town hall meetings, at both the corporate and operating division levels, with business and market updates and information on production, safety, quality and other operating metrics. We also communicate company information through news releases, executive communications, social media, digital signage, our weekly Ball eNews and BallConnect intranet, which are available to all employees. We have many recognition-oriented awards throughout our company, including our corporate and divisional awards of excellence, the Living Well Cup and global operations plant sustainability awards. We conduct regular company-wide engagement surveys, as well as periodic pulse surveys, which have generally indicated high levels of engagement and trust in Ball s leadership, key strategies and initiatives. Total Rewards Our global total rewards philosophy enables business performance by offering comprehensive total rewards that attract, retain, and motivate our employees and promote their overall wellbeing. In addition, our competitive pay positioning strategy allows employees to share in business success and be rewarded through a variety of compensation opportunities reflective of their individual potential and contributions. Total direct compensation is positioned in a competitive range of the applicable market median in each jurisdiction, differentiated based on tenure, skills, and performance, and designed to attract and retain the best talent. Health, Safety and Wellness The health, safety and wellness of all employees is a top priority at Ball. Our environmental, health and safety function and our operations executives partner to consistently reinforce policies and procedures that are designed to reduce workplace risks and ensure safe methods of plant production, including through regular training and reporting on injuries and lost-time incidents. We sponsor a variety of health and wellness programs designed to enhance the physical and mental well-being of our employees around the world. In addition, the Employee Assistance Program provides employees and their families access to mental health, stress management and other support resources essential to navigating life changes and challenges. Additional information on our human capital programs can be found in the Ball Corporation Combined Annual and Sustainability Report, which is available at www.ball.com/sustainability. Our Reportable Segments Ball Corporation reports its financial performance in four reportable segments: (1) beverage packaging, North and Central America; (2) beverage packaging, Europe, Middle East and Africa (beverage packaging, EMEA); (3) beverage packaging, South America and (4) aerospace. Ball also has investments in the U.S., Guatemala, Panama and Vietnam that are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. Additional financial information related to each of our segments is included in Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (annual report). Beverage Packaging, North and Central America, Segment Beverage packaging, North and Central America, is Ball s largest segment, accounting for 43 percent of consolidated net sales in 2023. Aluminum beverage containers are primarily sold under multi-year supply contracts to fillers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages. Aluminum beverage containers and ends are produced at 17 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., one in Canada and two in Mexico. The beverage packaging, North and Central America, segment also includes interests in three investments that are accounted for using the equity method. Ball permanently ceased production at its aluminum beverage can 8 Table of Contents manufacturing facility in St. Paul, Minnesota in the first quarter of 2023 and permanently ceased production at its aluminum beverage can manufacturing facility in Wallkill, New York in the third quarter of 2023. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2023, the company announced that it will permanently cease production at its aluminum beverage can manufacturing facility in Kent, Washington in the first half of 2024. According to publicly available information and company estimates, the North American beverage container industry represents approximately 136 billion units. Five companies manufacture substantially all of the aluminum beverage containers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Ball shipped approximately 49 billion aluminum beverage containers in North and Central America in 2023, which represented approximately 36 percent of the aggregate shipments in these countries. Historically, sales volumes of metal beverage containers in North America tend to be highest during the period from April through September. All of the beverage containers produced by Ball in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are made of aluminum. In North and Central America, a diverse base of no fewer than seven global suppliers provide almost all of our aluminum can and end sheet requirements . Beverage containers are sold based on price, quality, service, innovation and sustainability in a highly competitive market, which is relatively capital intensive and characterized by facilities that run more or less continuously in order to operate profitably. In addition, the aluminum beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials which include meaningful industry positions by the glass bottle in the packaged beer industry and the polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle in the carbonated soft drink and water industries. We limit our exposure to changes in the cost of aluminum as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most of our aluminum beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments. Beverage Packaging, EMEA, Segment The beverage packaging, EMEA, segment accounted for 24 percent of Ball s consolidated net sales in 2023. Our EMEA region operations include 19 facilities throughout Europe and one facility each in Cairo, Egypt, and Manisa, Turkey. In the third quarter of 2022, Ball completed the sale of its aluminum beverage packaging business located in Russia, which included three aluminum beverage can manufacturing facilities. For the countries in which we currently operate, the beverage container market is approximately 90 billion containers, and we are the largest producer with an estimated 38 percent of shipments in this region. The regions served by our beverage packaging, EMEA, segment, including Egypt and Turkey, are highly regional in terms of sales growth rates and packaging mix. Four companies manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in EMEA. Our EMEA beverage facilities, shipped 35 billion beverage containers in 2023, all of which were made from aluminum. During 2023, the company began production at its new aluminum beverage can manufacturing facilities in Pilsen, Czech Republic, and Kettering, U.K. Historically, sales volumes of metal beverage containers in EMEA tend to be highest during the period from May through August, with a smaller increase in demand leading up to the winter holiday season in the U.K. Much like in other parts of the world, the aluminum beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials used by the beer and carbonated soft drink industries. The glass bottle is heavily utilized in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container is utilized in the carbonated soft drink, beer, juice and water industries. These trends are evolving, however, as customers, regulators and non-governmental organizations continue to press for more sustainable packaging in the wake of the global pollution crisis. More and more brands are choosing aluminum beverage packaging because of its infinite recyclability and other sustainability credentials. Using a new calculation implemented by the European Union (EU) in 2022, the overall recycling rate for aluminum beverage cans in the EU, Switzerland, Norway and Iceland was approximately 73 percent in 2020. Raw material supply contracts in this region generally have longer term agreements. Six global aluminum suppliers provide almost all of our aluminum can and end sheet requirements. The company minimizes its exchange rate risk using derivative and supply contracts in local currencies. We limit our exposure to changes in the cost of aluminum as a result of the inclusion of provisions in our aluminum beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments. 9 Table of Contents Beverage Packaging, South America, Segment The beverage packaging, South America, segment accounted for 14 percent of Ball s consolidated net sales in 2023. Our operations consist of 12 facilities 9 in Brazil and one each in Argentina, Chile and Paraguay. For the countries where we operate, the South American beverage container market is approximately 41 billion containers, and we are the largest producer in 