Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 20 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Forward-Looking Statements 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 34 Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 37 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 38 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018 39 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 40 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 41 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B. Other Information 106 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of the Registrant 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 108 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 108 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 108 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 109 Item 16 . Form 10-K Summary 113 Signatures 114 Table of Contents PART I . Item 1. Business Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, Ball, the company, we or our) is one of the world s leading suppliers of aluminum packaging for the beverage, personal care and household products industries. The company was organized in 1880 and incorporated in the state of Indiana, United States of America (U.S.), in 1922. Our sustainable, aluminum packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in facilities around the world. We also provide aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers within our aerospace segment. In 2019, our total consolidated net sales were $11.5 billion. Our packaging businesses were responsible for 87 percent of our net sales, with the remaining 13 percent contributed by our aerospace business. Our largest product line is aluminum beverage containers and we also produce extruded aluminum aerosol containers and aluminum slugs. We sell our aluminum packaging products globally to large multinational beverage, personal care and household products companies with which we have developed long-term relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and large number of long-term supply contracts. While we have a diversified customer base, we sell a significant portion of our packaging products to major companies and brands, as well as to numerous regional customers. Our significant customers include The Coca-Cola Company and its affiliated bottlers and Anheuser-Busch InBev n.v./s.a., among others. Our aerospace business is a leader in delivering solutions ranging from entire missions to contributing component level expertise through the design, development and manufacture of innovative systems for intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance, civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. It produces spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency systems and components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced technologies and products that enable weather prediction and climate change monitoring as well as deep space missions. We are headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado, and our stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BLL. Our Strategy Our Drive for 10 vision defines our overall business strategy. At its highest level, Drive for 10 is a mindset around perfection, with a greater sense of urgency around our future success. Launched in 2011, Drive for 10 encompasses five strategic levers that are key to growing our businesses and achieving long-term success. These five levers are: Maximizing value in our existing businesses Expanding into new products and capabilities Aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets Broadening our geographic reach and Leveraging our know-how and technological expertise to provide a competitive advantage We also maintain a clear and disciplined financial strategy focused on improving shareholder returns by: Seeking to deliver comparable diluted earnings per share growth of 10 percent to 15 percent per annum over the long-term Maximizing free cash flow generation Increasing Economic Value Added (EVA ) dollars 1 Table of Contents The cash generated by our businesses is used primarily: (1) to finance the company s operations, (2) to fund growth capital investments, (3) to service the company s debt and (4) to return value to our shareholders via stock buy-backs and dividend payments. From time to time, we have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate possible transactions that we believe will benefit the company and our shareholders, which may include strategic acquisitions, divestitures of parts of our company or joint ventures. At any time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to possible transactions or may have entered into non-binding letters of intent. There can be no assurance if or when we will enter into any such transactions or the terms of such transactions. The compensation of many of our employees is tied directly to the company s performance through our EVA -based incentive programs. Sustainability At Ball Corporation, we believe in our people, our culture and our ability to deliver value to our stakeholders. Like uncompromising integrity and customer focus, sustainability is part of our Drive for 10 vision and has been a part of who we are since our founding in 1880. Our triple bottom-line approach to sustainability environmental, economic and social has evolved over the years and is the lens through which we conduct business at every level of our organization today. Sustainability is a key part of our business strategy, and influences how we manage and operate our businesses, serve our customers, care for the environment and our communities, secure profits and drive long-term prosperity. We focus our sustainability efforts on product stewardship, operational excellence, human capital management and community engagement. In our manufacturing operations around the world, we work on continuous improvement of employee safety and engagement, energy and water efficiency, reducing air emissions, and waste reduction and recycling. And our commitment extends outside of our walls. Today s consumers are acutely aware of the plastic pollution crisis, and they are choosing brands based on their sustainability. Customers understand this growing concern for the environment and their unique position in impacting the environment, for better or worse, especially through the packaging materials they use. Infinitely recyclable and economically valuable, aluminum unlocks the full potential of packaging to help customers convey values and purpose to consumers. Aluminum cans, bottles and now cups are an increasingly attractive option for sustainability-conscious brands and consumers who want to do the right thing for the environment. Unlike plastic, glass, cartons or compostable containers, aluminum can be recycled again and again without losing quality, and is in high demand across industries and applications, pushing its collection, sorting and recycling rates to the highest of any material. That s why 75 percent of all aluminum ever produced is still in use today. In 2017, Resource Recycling Systems recognized aluminum beverage cans as the most recycled beverage package in the world, with a global average recycling rate of 69 percent. In comparison, only 43 percent of PET and 46 percent of glass bottles were collected, although not necessarily recycled. These findings solidify aluminum beverage packaging as the leader in real recycling, where the package is collected and then transformed into an item of equal value (product-to-product or material-to-material recycling). In the case of aluminum beverage packaging, which is monomaterial, a can, bottle or cup can be recycled and made back into the same product in as little as 60 days. In contrast, only nine percent of all plastic ever produced has been recycled and mostly, it s only down-cycled. Down-cycled products, including but not limited to when plastic is converted to become part of a sneaker or fibers in a carpet, is not sustainable because eventually those products end up in landfills. Real recycling happens when the value of the product being recycled is maintained from one use to another. Because recycling aluminum saves resources and uses significantly less energy than primary aluminum production, we are innovating and collaborate with our customers, supply chain, and other public and private partners to establish and financially support initiatives to increase recycling rates. As two examples, we work together to create effective collection and recycling systems and educate consumers about the sustainability benefits of aluminum packaging. Our aerospace business plays a role in sustainability as well. More and more, our systems are measuring key elements of the physical environment and supporting environmental monitoring and operational weather forecasting programs, as well as providing environmental intelligence on weather, the Earth s climate system, precipitation, drought, air pollution, vegetation and biodiversity measurements. 2 Table of Contents The data captured through Ball-built instruments and satellites enable an enhanced understanding of the Earth s ecosystem and the stratospheric ozone layer and severe storm tracking, and better enabling effective management of natural resources, including helping experts to make routine drought assessments and fire prevention plans. At Ball, our sustained long-term success depends not only on our products and our operations, but on an engaged and sustainable workforce. We continue to invest in recruiting to ensure we have the right people with the right skills in the right roles, and in developing our employees at every level and providing them with opportunities to advance their careers. We also are committed to embracing diversity and providing an inclusive environment where employees can thrive. A focus on diversity among individuals and teams helps to unleash ideas and fuel innovation, which drives growth and economic value throughout our global organization. A healthy and sustainable business also depends on thriving communities. Ball s commitment to the communities where we live and operate is an integral part of our corporate culture, as we continue to support organizations, programs and civic initiatives that advance sustainable livelihoods. Community engagement is how our company and our employees enrich the places where we live and work beyond providing jobs, benefits and paying local taxes. Through the Ball Foundation, corporate giving, employee giving and volunteerism, we invest in the future of the communities that sustain us. In 2018, Ball and its employees donated nearly $5.5 million and logged more than 42,000 hours of volunteer service to non-profit organizations centered on building sustainable communities through recycling, STEM education, and disaster preparedness and relief initiatives. Our Reportable Segments Ball Corporation reports its financial performance in four reportable segments: (1) beverage packaging, North and Central America; (2) beverage packaging, South America; (3) beverage packaging, Europe and (4) aerospace. Ball also has investments in the U.S., Guatemala, Panama, South Korea and Vietnam that are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. Financial information related to each of our segments is included in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (annual report). Beginning in January 2020, Ball has changed how the beverage packaging, AMEA, and beverage packaging, Asia Pacific, operating segments are being managed and reported for the purposes of cost reduction and operational efficiency. The company s plants in Cairo, Egypt, and Manisa, Turkey, will be managed with the existing reportable beverage packaging, Europe, operating segment. The company s operations in India and Saudi Arabia will be consolidated with the remainder of the beverage packaging, Asia Pacific, operating segment resulting in a new non-reportable beverage packaging, other, operating segment. These changes will be reflected in our segment financial reporting beginning in the first quarter of 2020 including comparative historical periods. Beverage Packaging, North and Central America, Segment Beverage packaging, North and Central America, is Ball s largest segment, accounting for 41 percent of consolidated net sales in 2019. Aluminum beverage containers are primarily sold under multi-year supply contracts to fillers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages. Aluminum beverage containers and ends are produced at 17 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., one in Canada and two in Mexico. The beverage packaging, North and Central America, segment also includes interests in three joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method. The North American beverage container manufacturing industry is relatively mature. Since 2018, the industry has begun to see certain new products launched in aluminum cans at an increased rate than had been historically as well as further can penetration in existing beverage categories. In order to serve growing customer demand for specialty cans across North America, the company constructed a four-line beverage packaging facility in Goodyear, Arizona, which began production in the second quarter of 2018 and recently announced plans to construct additional plants in Glendale, Arizona, and an unspecified location in the northeastern U.S. 3 Table of Contents According to publicly available information and company estimates, the North American beverage container industry represents approximately 115 billion units. Five companies manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Ball shipped approximately 48 billion infinitely recyclable aluminum beverage containers in North America in 2019, which represented approximately 42 percent of the aggregate production in these countries. Historically, sales volumes of metal beverage containers in North America tend to be highest during the period from April through September. All of the beverage containers produced by Ball in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are made of aluminum. In North and Central America, a diverse base of no less than 10 global suppliers provide almost all of our aluminum can and end sheet requirements . Beverage containers are sold based on price, quality, service, innovation and sustainability in a highly competitive market, which is relatively capital intensive and characterized by facilities that run more or less continuously in order to operate profitably. In addition, the aluminum beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials which include meaningful industry positions by the glass bottle in the packaged beer industry and the polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle in the carbonated soft drink and water industries. We limit our exposure to changes in the cost of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most of our aluminum beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments. Our beverage can manufacturing facility in Birmingham, Alabama, ceased production during the second quarter of 2018 and the Chatsworth, California, and Longview, Texas, facilities ceased production during the third quarter of 2018. These facilities produced aluminum beverage cans and ends in a variety of sizes and their customers are now supplied by the company s other U.S. facilities. Beverage Packaging, South America, Segment The beverage packaging, South America, segment accounted for 15 percent of Ball s consolidated net sales in 2019. Our operations consist of 12 facilities, 9 in Brazil and one each in Argentina, Chile and Paraguay. For the countries where we operate, the South American beverage container market is approximately 36 billion containers, and we are the largest producer in this region with an estimated 49 percent of South American shipments in 2019. Four companies currently manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in Brazil. The company s South American beverage facilities shipped approximately 18 billion aluminum beverage containers in 2019. Historically, sales volumes of beverage containers in South America tend to be highest during the period from September through December. In South America, two suppliers provide virtually all our aluminum sheet requirements with certain requirements also being imported from Asia. In order to support contracted volumes for aluminum beverage packaging across Paraguay, Argentina and Bolivia, the company constructed a one-line beverage can and end manufacturing facility in Paraguay which began production in the fourth quarter of 2019, and increased capacity to its Buenos Aires, Argentina, and Santiago, Chile, facilities. The company ceased operations at its Cuiab , Brazil, beverage packaging facility in July 2018 and has relocated equipment from the Cuiab facility to other existing facilities in South America. We limit our exposure to changes in the cost of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most of our aluminum beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments. Beverage Packaging, Europe, Segment The beverage packaging, Europe, segment accounted for 23 percent of Ball s consolidated net sales in 2019. Our European operations consist of 20 facilities throughout Europe. The European beverage container market is approximately 72 billion containers, including Russia and excluding Turkey, and we are the largest producer with an estimated 42 percent of European shipments. The European market is highly regional in terms of sales growth rates and packaging mix. Four companies manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in Europe. Our European beverage facilities shipped 31 billion beverage containers in 2019, the vast majority of which were produced from aluminum. 4 Table of Contents Historically, sales volumes of metal beverage containers in Europe tend to be highest during the period from May through August with a smaller increase in demand leading up to the winter holiday season in the U.K. offset by much lower demand in Russia. Much like other parts of the world, the metal beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials used by the European beer and carbonated soft drink industries. The glass bottle is heavily utilized in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container is utilized in the carbonated soft drink, beer, juice and water industries. These trends are evolving, however, as customers respond to consumer demand, and regulators and non-governmental organizations press for more sustainable packaging in the wake of the plastic pollution crisis. More and more brands are choosing aluminum beverage packaging because of its infinite recyclability and other sustainability credentials. The overall recycling rate for aluminum beverage cans in the European Union, Switzerland, Norway and Iceland increased to a new record level of approximately 75 percent in 2017. European raw material supply contracts generally have longer term agreements. In Europe, five aluminum suppliers and two steel suppliers provide almost all of our requirements. Aluminum is traded primarily in U.S. dollars, while the functional currencies of our European operations are various other currencies. The company minimizes its exchange rate risk using derivative and supply contracts in local currencies. Purchase and sales contracts generally include fixed-price, floating or pass-through aluminum ingot component pricing arrangements. In order to support growth for beverage cans in the Iberian Peninsula, the company constructed in 2018 a two-line, aluminum beverage can manufacturing facility near Madrid, Spain, with a majority of the facility s capacity secured under a long-term customer contract. The facility is fully operational and produces multiple can sizes utilizing both lines. In December 2018, we closed a one-line beverage packaging facility located in San Martino, Italy. Aerospace Segment Ball s aerospace segment, which accounted for 13 percent of consolidated net sales in 2019, includes national defense hardware, antenna and video tactical solutions, civil and operational space hardware and systems engineering services. The segment develops spacecraft, sensors and instruments, radio frequency systems and other advanced technologies for the civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. The majority of the aerospace business involves work under contracts, generally from one to five years in duration, as a prime contractor or subcontractor for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and other U.S. government agencies. The company competes against both large and small prime contractors and subcontractors for these contracts. Contracts funded by the various agencies of the federal government represented 98 percent of segment sales in 2019. Intense competition and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both the company s business and the aerospace and defense industry. It is common in the aerospace and defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to a competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa. Geopolitical events and shifting executive and legislative branch priorities have resulted in an increase in opportunities over the past decade in areas matching our aerospace segment s core capabilities in space hardware. The businesses include hardware and services sold primarily to U.S. customers, with emphasis on space science and exploration, climate monitoring, weather prediction, environmental and earth sciences, and defense and intelligence applications. Major activities frequently involve the design, manufacture and testing of satellites, remote sensors and ground station control hardware and software, as well as related services such as launch vehicle integration and satellite operations. Other hardware activities include target identification, warning and attitude control systems and components; cryogenic systems for reactant storage, and associated sensor cooling devices; star trackers, which are general-purpose stellar attitude sensors; and fast-steering mirrors. 5 Table of Contents Contracted backlog in the aerospace segment was $2.5 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and consisted of the aggregate contract value of firm orders, excluding amounts previously recognized as revenue. The 2019 contracted backlog includes $1.5 billion expected to be recognized in revenues during 2020, with the remainder expected to be recognized in revenues in the years thereafter. Unfunded amounts included in backlog for certain firm government orders, which are subject to annual funding, were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Year-over-year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations, revenues and earnings due to the nature of varying delivery and milestone schedules on contracts, funding of programs and the uncertainty of timing of future contract awards. Uncertainties in the federal government budgeting process could delay the funding, or even result in cancellation of certain programs currently in our reported backlog. Other Other consists of non-reportable segments located in Africa, Middle East and Asia (beverage packaging, AMEA) and Asia Pacific (beverage packaging, Asia Pacific) that manufacture and sell aluminum beverage containers; a non-reportable segment that manufactures and sells aerosol containers, extruded aluminum aerosol containers and aluminum slugs (aerosol packaging); undistributed corporate expenses; intercompany eliminations and other business activities. Beverage Packaging, AMEA Our beverage container operations in the AMEA region consist of five aluminum container and end manufacturing facilities two in India and one each in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. The beverage container industry in this region shipped 19 billion cans in 2019, and we are one of eight major producers in this region with 23 percent of shipments. Our manufacturing facility in Saudi Arabia, Rexam United Arab Can Manufacturing Limited, is a joint venture 51 percent owned by Ball and consolidated in our results. Additionally, Ball has an ownership interest in an equity method joint venture in South Korea. Beverage Packaging, Asia Pacific In September 2019, Ball sold its beverage packaging business in China. The remaining operations of the Asia Pacific region include one aluminum beverage container manufacturing facility in Myanmar. Our aluminum can and end sheet requirements are provided by several suppliers. Ball has equity method ownership interests in beverage packaging manufacturing operations in Vietnam and Thailand. Aerosol Packaging In October 2019, Ball sold its steel aerosol packaging business in Argentina. Our remaining aluminum aerosol packaging operations manufacture and sell extruded aluminum aerosol containers and aluminum slugs, which represented less than 5 percent of Ball s consolidated net sales in 2019. There are eight manufacturing facilities that manufacture these products four in Europe and one each in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and India. The aerosol packaging market in these countries shipped approximately 5.6 billion aluminum aerosol units in 2019 and we are one of the major producers in this combined area with shipments of 1.2 billion aluminum aerosol packaging containers, representing approximately 21 percent of total shipments in these markets. Our aluminum aerosol requirements are provided by several suppliers . Aluminum Cups The Ball Aluminum Cups business was launched during 2019 to serve the growing demand for innovative, sustainable beverage packaging among customers and consumers. Aligned with our Drive for 10 strategy, the Cups business allows us to put our years of experience and specialized expertise to serve a currently unmet need with another environmentally friendly addition to our industry-leading portfolio of aluminum packages. Sturdy, durable and cool to the touch, the infinitely recyclable Ball Aluminum Cup will be made at a dedicated manufacturing facility that is under construction in Rome, Georgia. When the Rome plant is fully operational, Ball plans to introduce additional sizes to round out its cups portfolio and intends to expand adoption of the cups to drinking establishments, parks and recreation, colleges and universities, hospitality, restaurants, retail, business and industry. The 2019 results for the Aluminum Cups business were reported in undistributed corporate expenses. Beginning in January 2020, the Aluminum Cups business will be a non-reportable operating segment. 6 Table of Contents Patents In the opinion of the company s management, none of our active patents or groups of patents is material to the successful operation of our business as a whole. We manage our intellectual property portfolio to obtain the durations necessary to achieve our business objectives. Research and Development Research and development (R D) efforts in our packaging segments are primarily directed toward packaging innovation, specifically the development of new features, sizes, shapes and types of containers, as well as new uses for existing containers. Other R D efforts in these segments seek to improve manufacturing efficiencies and the overall sustainability of our products. Our packaging R D activities are primarily conducted in a technical center located in Westminster, Colorado . In our aerospace business, we continue to focus our R D activities on the design, development and manufacture of innovative aerospace products and systems. This includes the production of spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency and system components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space missions. Our aerospace R D activities are conducted at various locations in the U.S. Additional information regarding company R D activity is contained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report, as well as in Item 2, Properties. Employee Relations At the end of 2019, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 18,300 employees, including approximately 8,700 employees in the U.S. Deta