Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 2 2 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 2 4 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Forward-Looking Statements 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 36 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 38 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 238 ) 38 Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 40 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings (Loss) for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 41 Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2021 and 2020 42 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 43 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 45 Note 1, Critical and Significant Accounting Policies 45 Note 2, Accounting Pronouncements 55 Note 3, Business Segment Information 55 Note 4, Acquisitions and Dispositions 58 Note 5, Revenue from Contracts with Customers 59 Note 6, Business Consolidation and Other Activities 60 Note 7, Supplemental Cash Flow Statement Disclosures 63 Note 8, Receivables, Net 63 Note 9, Inventories, Net 64 Note 10, Property, Plant and Equipment, Net 64 Note 11, Goodwill 65 Note 12, Intangibles Assets, Net 65 Note 13, Other Assets 66 Note 14, Leases 66 Note 15, Debt and Interest Costs 68 Note 16, Taxes on Income 69 Note 17, Employee Benefit Obligations 73 Note 18, Shareholders Equity 82 Note 19, Stock-Based Compensation Programs 8 4 Note 20, Earnings Per Share 85 Note 21, Financial Instruments and Risk Management 86 Note 22, Contingencies 91 Note 23, Indemnifications and Guarantees 93 Table of Contents Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 95 Item 9B. Other Information 95 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 95 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 Item 11. Executive Compensation 96 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 9 7 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 97 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 97 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 98 Item 16 . Form 10-K Summary 10 2 Signatures 103 Table of Contents PART I . Item 1. Business Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, Ball, the company, we or our) is one of the world s leading suppliers of aluminum packaging for the beverage, personal care and household products industries. The company was organized in 1880 and incorporated in the state of Indiana, United States of America (U.S.), in 1922. Our sustainable, aluminum packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in facilities around the world. We also provide aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers within our aerospace segment. In 2021, our total consolidated net sales were $13.8 billion. Our packaging businesses were responsible for 86 percent of our net sales, with the remaining 14 percent contributed by our aerospace business. Our largest product line is aluminum beverage containers and we also produce extruded aluminum aerosol containers, recloseable aluminum bottles across multiple consumer categories, aluminum slugs and aluminum cups. We sell our aluminum packaging products globally to large multinational beverage, personal care and household products companies with which we have developed long-term relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and large number of long-term supply contracts. While we have a diversified customer base, we sell a significant portion of our packaging products to major companies and brands, as well as to numerous regional customers. Our significant customers include top consumer packaging and beverage companies. Our aerospace business is a leader in delivering solutions ranging from entire missions to contributing component level expertise through the design, development and manufacture of innovative systems for intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance, civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. It produces spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency systems and components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced technologies and products that enable weather prediction and climate change monitoring as well as deep space missions. We are headquartered in Westminster, Colorado, and our stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BLL. We intend to change the company s ticker symbol from BLL to BALL immediately following our annual shareholders meeting in April 2022. A public press release will be issued 10 days prior to the actual change date. Our Strategy Our Drive for 10 vision defines our overall business strategy. At its highest level, Drive for 10 is a mindset around perfection, with a greater sense of urgency around our future success. Launched in 2011, Drive for 10 encompasses five strategic levers that are key to growing our businesses and achieving long-term success. These five levers are: Maximizing value in our existing businesses Expanding into new products and capabilities Aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets Broadening our geographic reach and Leveraging our know-how and technological expertise to provide a competitive advantage We also maintain a clear and disciplined financial strategy focused on improving shareholder returns by: Seeking to deliver comparable diluted earnings per share growth of 10 percent to 15 percent per annum over the long-term Maximizing cash flow generation Increasing Economic Value Added (EVA ) dollars 4 Table of Contents The cash generated by our businesses is used primarily: (1) to finance the company s operations, (2) to fund growth capital investments, (3) to service the company s debt and (4) to return value to our shareholders via stock buybacks and dividend payments. From time to time, we have evaluated and expect to continue to evaluate possible transactions that we believe will benefit the company and our shareholders, which may include strategic acquisitions, divestitures of parts of our company or equity investments. At any time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to possible transactions or may have entered into non-binding letters of intent. There can be no assurance if or when we will enter into any such transactions or the terms of such transactions. The compensation of many of our employees is tied directly to the company s performance through our EVA -based incentive programs. Sustainability At Ball Corporation, we believe in our people, our culture and our ability to deliver value to our stakeholders. Like uncompromising integrity and customer focus, sustainability is part of our Drive for 10 vision and has been a part of who we are since our founding in 1880. Our triple bottom-line approach to sustainability environmental, economic and social has evolved over the years and is the lens through which we conduct business at every level of our organization today. Sustainability is a key part of our business strategy, and it influences how we manage and operate our businesses, serve our customers, care for the environment and our communities, secure profits and drive long-term prosperity. We focus our sustainability efforts on product stewardship, operational excellence, human capital management, including diversity and inclusion, and community engagement. In our manufacturing operations around the world, we work on continuous improvement of employee safety and engagement, energy and water efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, waste reduction and recycling. Our commitment extends beyond our walls. Today s consumers are acutely aware of the plastic pollution crisis, and they are choosing brands based on their sustainability credentials. Customers understand this growing concern for the environment and their unique position in impacting the environment, especially through the packaging materials they use. Infinitely recyclable and economically valuable aluminum unlocks the full potential of packaging to help customers convey values and purpose to consumers. We are committed to doing what we can to move toward a truly circular economy, where materials can be and actually are used again and again. Aluminum cans, bottles and now cups are an increasingly attractive option for sustainability-conscious brands and consumers who want to do the right thing for the environment. Unlike plastic, glass, cartons or compostable containers, aluminum containers are designed to be recycled again and again without losing quality, and are in high demand across industries and applications, pushing aluminum collection, sorting and recycling rates to the highest of any beverage packaging material. That s why 75 percent of all aluminum ever produced is still in use today. Aluminum beverage packaging is the leader in real recycling, where the package is collected and then transformed into an item of equal value (product-to-product or material-to-material recycling). In the case of aluminum cans, bottles or cups which are monomaterial, the aluminum can be recycled and made back into the same product in as little as 60 days. In contrast, only 10 percent of all plastic ever produced has been recycled and is mostly only downcycled. Down-cycled products, including but not limited to when plastic is converted to become part of a sneaker or fibers in a carpet, are not sustainable because eventually those products end up in landfills. Real recycling happens when the value of the product being recycled is maintained from one use to another. Because recycling aluminum saves resources and uses significantly less energy than primary aluminum production, we are innovating and collaborating with our customers, supply chain, and other public and private partners to establish and financially support initiatives to increase recycling rates around the world. For example, we work together to create effective collection and recycling systems and educate consumers about the sustainability benefits of aluminum packaging. During 2021, the company proactively engaged with global regulators and legislators to raise awareness of the importance of recycling and infrastructure investment to improve global recycling rates. As part of this proactive engagement, the company also published the 50 States of Recycling Report, which is available at www.ball.com/realcircularity. 5 Table of Contents Our aerospace business plays a role in sustainability as well. More and more, our systems are measuring key elements of the physical environment and supporting environmental monitoring and operational weather forecasting programs, as well as providing environmental intelligence on weather, the Earth s climate system, precipitation, drought, air pollution, vegetation and biodiversity measurements. The data captured through Ball-built instruments and satellites enable an enhanced understanding of the Earth s ecosystem and the stratospheric ozone layer and severe storm tracking, and better enabling effective management of natural resources, including helping experts to make routine drought assessments and fire prevention plans. At Ball, our sustained long-term success depends not only on our products and our operations, but on an engaged workforce. We continue to invest in recruiting to ensure we have the right people with the right skills in the right roles, and in developing our employees at every level and providing them with opportunities to advance their careers. We also are committed to embracing diversity and providing an inclusive environment where employees can thrive. A focus on diversity among individuals and teams helps to unleash ideas and fuel innovation, which drives growth and economic value throughout our global organization. A healthy and sustainable business also depends on thriving communities. Ball s commitment to the communities where we live and operate is an integral part of our corporate culture, as we continue to support organizations, programs and civic initiatives that advance sustainable livelihoods. Community engagement is how our company and our employees enrich the places where we live and work beyond providing jobs, benefits and paying local taxes. Through the Ball Foundation, corporate giving, employee giving and volunteerism, we invest in the future of the communities that sustain us. In 2021, Ball and its employees donated over $5 million supporting more than 2,900 non-profits and logged more than 24,000 hours of volunteer service to non-profit organizations centered on building sustainable communities through recycling, education, and disaster preparedness and relief initiatives. The company s focus towards sustainability has been recognized by external organizations. Ball was recognized in the Top 1 Percent of Industry and received the Gold Class and Industry Mover Award by S P Global in The Sustainability Yearbook 2022. Human Capital and Employees Ball Corporation s people are its greatest asset and we are proud to outline the material aspects of our human capital program. At the end of 2021, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 24,300 employees, including approximately 11,900 employees in the U.S. Details of collective bargaining agreements are included within Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this annual report. Our Culture Embracing our rich 142-year history, we know who we are , a company that respects and values each of our employees and their collective desire to deliver value to all our stakeholders. We embrace our diversity and are one Ball in valuing: Uncompromising integrity; Being close to our customers; Behaving like owners; Focusing on attention to detail; and Being innovative. Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion (D I) is embedded in our Drive for 10 vision and is key to the sustained success of our business. We established a dedicated D I function in 2015 to build on our longstanding commitment to D I across the company and included D I as an integral part of our goals for sustainability. Over the past six years, we have made meaningful progress on D I, which has been recognized by external organizations, including Forbes, which recognized Ball among the America s Best Employers for Diversity in 2020, and the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, which listed Ball among the Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality in 2021 and 2022 and awarded Ball with a perfect score on its Corporate Equality Index list in 2021 and 2022. Our dedicated D I function reports directly to our CEO, and we understand that the key to success is shared accountability rather than designating a single owner for this critical area. 6 Table of Contents Our focus to date has been on providing unconscious bias training for our global workforce, expanding our Ball Network and Interest Groups (BNIs) in terms of quantity and geography, and increasing awareness about the importance of D I and each employee s role in ensuring that we have a culture where people can bring their authentic selves to work and thrive. While we are proud of our progress, we know there is more work to do. As we move forward, we are accelerating our D I efforts with a greater sense of urgency. In June 2020, we instituted a new global cloud-based human capital management platform that will among many other talent-focused features enable us to more fully understand employee demographics and identify how we can better enhance our diversity around the world. We continue to evolve our talent acquisition process and focus on diversity for internships, candidate slates, interview panels, talent reviews and succession planning. Each of our business segment leaders has committed to help drive further D I progress during 2022 and beyond. Currently, 62 percent of our board of directors are either gender or ethnically diverse, including five female board members, and 30 percent of our company s executive leadership team are either gender or ethnically diverse. Talent We seek to attract, develop and retain the best talent throughout the company. During the past decade, we established and expanded our talent management organization with dedicated talent acquisition and development functions that have implemented rigorous hiring and development processes, including standardized assessments for candidate selection, and an embedded Inspire, Connect, Achieve leadership framework, which details clear behaviors that we expect from our people leaders to ensure they align with our culture. We have also strengthened our succession planning through a holistic approach to developing key managers that includes challenging assignments, formal development plans and professional coaching. Training and Development Our global human capital management platform enables rigorous identification, analysis and development of talent around the world. In conjunction with that platform, the company utilizes an approach to performance management focused on development and continuous improvement. This approach emphasizes ongoing performance conversations between managers and employees and a focus on mitigating bias in performance conversations, resulting in an enhanced employee developmental experience and data points for our talent discussions. Additionally, all employees have access to create a personal development plan and we have resources to support employees in their personal and professional development, including: Continuous education through various tuition reimbursement programs, apprenticeship and instructional programs; A learning management platform that has had significant employee utilization; Monthly global leadership panel discussions and breakout groups focused on real-time topics, such as supporting team wellbeing, working through stressful times, setting individual development goals, maximizing team performance, sharing practical steps to better enable our collective focus on D I and sharing other best practice leadership behaviors A new LinkedIn Learning platform for all corporate and packaging employees who work in an office setting; Leadership and personal development coaching opportunities through a partnership with BetterUp; On-going education for people leaders around our Inspire, Connect, and Achieve leadership behaviors; Annual compliance, antitrust, bribery, corruption and business code of conduct and ethics training for key management level, sales and supply chain employees. 7 Table of Contents Employee Engagement As part of our Drive for 10 vision, we seek to ensure that everyone at Ball is motivated to perform their best work every day. To further that objective, our engagement approach focuses on clear communication and recognition. We communicate through quarterly employee town hall meetings, at both the corporate and operating division levels, with business and market updates and information on production, safety, quality and other operating metrics. We also communicate company information through news releases, executive communications, internal management information bulletins, digital signage and our weekly Ball eNews through the new BallConnect intranet, which are available to all employees. We have many recognition-oriented awards throughout our company, including our corporate and divisional awards of excellence. We conduct regular company-wide engagement surveys, as well as periodic pulse surveys, which have generally indicated high levels of engagement and trust in Ball s leadership, key strategies and initiatives. Total Rewards We have steadily upgraded our total rewards function over the past decade with the objective of acquiring, rewarding and retaining the best talent by providing total rewards that are competitive and performance based. Our compensation programs, including our long-standing EVA based incentive plans, reflect our commitment to reward performance that drives shareholder value. Total direct compensation is positioned in a competitive range of the applicable market median in each jurisdiction, differentiated based on tenure, skills and performance, and designed to attract and retain the best talent. Health, Safety and Wellness The health, safety and wellness of each of our employees has been one of Ball s top priorities for many years. Our environmental, health and safety function and our operations executives partner to consistently reinforce policies and procedures that are designed to reduce workplace risks and ensure safe methods of plant production, including through regular training and reporting on injuries and lost-time incidents. Over the past 15 years, we have sponsored a variety of health and wellness programs designed to enhance the physical and mental well-being of our employees around the world. During 2020, the company expanded access to its existing Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to our entire global workforce. The EAP provides employees and their families access to mental health, stress management and support resources during these difficult times. Since the onset of the ongoing novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, nearly all of our businesses have been deemed essential by the governments where we operate, and our production facilities have operated continuously. During this time, we have put employee health and well-being front and center, and we have adjusted our approach to how work gets done accordingly. Our guiding principles throughout the pandemic have been safety, flexibility and empathy. Ball has implemented rigorous safety protocols in all its locations, including face coverings, social distancing, contact tracing, employee testing and enhanced cleaning. Most office-based roles have transitioned to a flexible working environment, and our IT systems have been flexed to support more virtual meetings and remote collaboration. We are actively preparing for a more flexible approach to traditional office roles after the pandemic ends. Finally, despite the effects of the pandemic and in direct support of our growing businesses, Ball increased its net employee headcount by approximately 2,800 employees during 2021. Additional information on our human capital programs can be found in the Ball Corporation Sustainability Report, which is available at www.ball.com/sustainability. Our Reportable Segments Ball Corporation reports its financial performance in four reportable segments: (1) beverage packaging, North and Central America; (2) beverage packaging, Europe, Middle East and Africa (beverage packaging, EMEA); (3) beverage packaging, South America and (4) aerospace. Ball also has investments in the U.S., Guatemala, Panama and Vietnam that are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. Additional financial information related to each of our segments is included in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (annual report). 8 Table of Contents Beverage Packaging, North and Central America, Segment Beverage packaging, North and Central America, is Ball s largest segment, accounting for 42 percent of consolidated net sales in 2021. Aluminum beverage containers are primarily sold under multi-year supply contracts to fillers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages. Aluminum beverage containers and ends are produced at 20 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., one in Canada and two in Mexico. The beverage packaging, North and Central America, segment also includes interests in four investments that are accounted for using the equity method. In 2021, the company began production in its new plants in Glendale, Arizona, Pittston, Pennsylvania, and Bowling Green, Kentucky. The company has announced plans to expand its network to include new plants in North Las Vegas, Nevada, and Concord, North Carolina. According to publicly available information and company estimates, the North American beverage container industry represents approximately 133 billion units. Six companies manufacture substantially all of the aluminum beverage containers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Ball shipped approximately 54 billion aluminum beverage containers in North and Central America in 2021, which represented approximately 41 percent of the aggregate shipments in these countries. Historically, sales volumes of metal beverage containers in North America tend to be highest during the period from April through September. All of the beverage containers produced by Ball in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are made of aluminum. In North and Central America, a diverse base of no less than ten global suppliers provides almost all of our aluminum can and end sheet requirements . Beverage containers are sold based on price, quality, service, innovation and sustainability in a highly competitive market, which is relatively capital intensive and characterized by facilities that run more or less continuously in order to operate profitably. In addition, the aluminum beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials which include meaningful industry positions by the glass bottle in the packaged beer industry and the polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle in the carbonated soft drink and water industries. We limit our exposure to changes in the cost of aluminum as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most of our aluminum beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments. Beverage Packaging, EMEA, Segment The beverage packaging, EMEA, segment accounted for 25 percent of Ball s consolidated net sales in 2021. Our EMEA region operations include 17 facilities throughout Europe, three facilities in Russia and one facility each in Cairo, Egypt, and Manisa, Turkey. For the countries in which we operate, the beverage container market is approximately 93 billion containers, and we are the largest producer with an estimated 41 percent of shipments in this region. The regions served by our beverage packaging, EMEA, segment, including Russia, Egypt and Turkey, are highly regional in terms of sales growth rates and packaging mix. Four companies manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in EMEA. Our EMEA beverage facilities shipped 38 billion beverage containers in 2021, the vast majority of which were made from aluminum. As of December 31, 2021, all of the beverage containers produced by the company s beverage packaging, EMEA, segment are now made of aluminum. The company has announced plans to construct additional plants in Pilsen, Czech Republic, Ulyanovsk, Russia, and Northamptonshire, U.K. Historically, sales volumes of metal beverage containers in EMEA tend to be highest during the period from May through August, with a smaller increase in demand leading up to the winter holiday season in the U.K. offset by much lower demand in Russia. Much like in other parts of the world, the aluminum beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials used by the beer and carbonated soft drink industries. The glass bottle is heavily utilized in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container is utilized in the carbonated soft drink, beer, juice and water industries. These trends are evolving, however, as customers respond to consumer demand, and regulators and non-governmental organizations press for more sustainable packaging in the wake of the plastic pollution crisis. More and more brands are choosing aluminum beverage packaging because of its infinite recyclability and other sustainability credentials. The overall recycling rate for aluminum beverage cans in the European Union, Switzerland, Norway and Iceland increased to a new record level of approximately 75 percent in 2017. 9 Table of Contents Raw material supply contracts in this region generally have longer term agreements. Six aluminum suppliers provide almost all of our aluminum can and end sheet requirements. Aluminum is traded primarily in U.S. dollars, while the functional currencies of our EMEA operations are various other currencies. The company minimizes its exchange rate risk using derivative and supply contracts in local currencies. We limit our exposure to changes in the cost of aluminum as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most of our aluminum beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments. Beverage Packaging, South America, Segment The beverage packaging, South America, segment accounted for 15 percent of Ball s consolidated net sales in 2021. Our operations consist of 13 facilities 10 in Brazil and one each in Argentina, Chile and Paraguay. For the countries where we operate, the South American beverage container market is approximately 42 billion containers, and we are the largest producer in this region with an estimated 48 percent of South American shipments in 2021. Four companies currently manufacture substantially all of the aluminum beverage containers in Brazil. The company s South American beverage facilities shipped approximately 20 billion aluminum beverage containers in 20