Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Reserved 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 110 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 110 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 110 Item 11. Executive Compensation 110 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 110 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 111 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 111 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 111 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 111 PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile intravenous (IV) solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; surgical hemostat and sealant products, advanced surgical equipment; smart bed systems; patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies; and respiratory health devices. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors offices and by patients at home under physician supervision. Our global footprint and the critical nature of our products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. As of December 31, 2021, we manufactured products in over 20 countries and sold them in over 100 countries. Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As used in this report, Baxter International means Baxter International Inc. and we", "our or "us" means Baxter International and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. COVID-19 Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and epidemics/pandemics, such as the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) and its variants. COVID-19 and its variants have had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations, supply chains and distribution systems and have increased and we expect will continue to increase our expenses, including as a result of impacts associated with preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments are taking. Initial measures taken by businesses and governments beginning in 2020 led to unprecedented restrictions on, disruptions in, and other related impacts on business and personal activities, including a shift in healthcare priorities, which resulted in a significant decline in elective medical procedures in 2020. Some of these disruptions and impacts (including the suspension or postponement of elective medical procedures) in certain of our principal markets have continued into 2021. The pandemic has created significant volatility in the demand for our products. For further information about our revenues by product category, refer to Note 10 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant uncertainty remains regarding the duration and overall impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, concerns remain regarding the pace of economic recovery due to virus resurgence across the globe from the Delta and Omicron variants and other virus mutations as well as vaccine distribution and hesitancy. The U.S. and other governments may continue existing measures or implement new restrictions and other requirements in light of the continuing spread of the pandemic (including with respect to mandatory vaccinations for certain of our employees and moratoriums on elective procedures). Due to the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, our operating performance and financial results, particularly in the short term, may be subject to volatility. We have experienced significant challenges, including lengthy delays, shortages and interruptions, posed by the pandemic and other exogenous factors (including significant weather events and disruptions to certain ports of call around the world) to our global supply chain, including the cost and availability of raw materials and component parts (including resins and electromechanical devices) and higher transportation costs, and may experience these and other challenges in future periods. Many of our manufacturing plant and distribution center personnel are currently unvaccinated, and we may also experience employee resistance in complying with current and future government vaccine and testing mandates, which may cause labor shortages significantly impacting manufacturing production and distribution center productivity for us and our suppliers. We expect that these challenges as well as evolving governmental restrictions and requirements, among other factors, may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. For further discussion, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Acquisition of Hillrom On December 13, 2021, we completed the previously announced acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. (Hillrom) for a purchase price of $10.5 billion. Including the assumption of Hillrom's outstanding debt obligations, the enterprise value of the transaction was approximately $12.8 billion. Under the 1 terms of the transaction agreement, Hillrom shareholders received $156.00 in cash per each outstanding Hillrom common share. Prior to our acquisition of Hillrom, Hillrom was a global medical technology leader whose products and services help enable earlier diagnosis and treatment, optimize surgical efficiency, and accelerate patient recovery while simplifying clinical communication and shifting care closer to home. Hillrom made those outcomes possible through digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices, advanced equipment for the surgical space and more, delivering actionable, real-time insights at the point of care. See Note 2 and Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about the Hillrom acquisition and related financing arrangements. Business Segments and Products We manage our global operations based on four segments, consisting of the following geographic segments related to our legacy Baxter business: Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia-Pacific), and a new global segment for our recently acquired Hillrom business. The Americas, EMEA and APAC segments provide a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; and surgical hemostat and sealant products. The Hillrom segment provides digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices and advanced equipment for the surgical space. For financial information about our segments, see Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Distribution We have our own direct sales force and also make sales to and through independent distributors, drug wholesalers acting as sales agents and specialty pharmacy or other alternate site providers. In the United States, third parties, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., warehouse and ship a significant portion of our products through their distribution centers. These centers are generally stocked with adequate inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales and distribution methods include frequent contact by sales and customer service representatives, automated communications via various electronic purchasing systems, circulation of catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct-mail campaigns, trade publication presence and advertising. Sales are made and products are distributed on a direct basis or through independent distributors or sales agents in more than 100 countries as of December 31, 2021. International Operations The majority of our revenues are generated outside of the United States and geographic expansion remains a component of our strategy. Our presence includes operations in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada. We are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States. For more information on these risks, see the information under the captions Risks Related to Baxter s Business We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally and Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our foreign and domestic revenues and segment information, see Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information regarding foreign currency exchange risk, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled Financial Instrument Market Risk in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Contractual Arrangements Our products are sold through contracts with customers, both within and outside the United States. Some of these contracts have terms of more than one year and place limits on our ability to increase prices. In the case of 2 hospitals, governments and other facilities, these contracts may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of products to be purchased by the customer. In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery, many hospitals and other customers of medical products in the United States have joined group purchasing organizations (GPOs), or formed integrated delivery networks (IDNs), to enhance purchasing power. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with manufacturers and distributors and the negotiated prices are made available to members. We have purchasing agreements with several of the major GPOs in the United States. GPOs may have agreements with more than one supplier for certain products. Accordingly, in these cases, we face competition from other suppliers even where a customer is a member of a GPO under contract with us. Purchasing power is similarly consolidated in many other countries. For example, public contracting authorities often act as the purchasing entities for the hospitals and other customers of medical products in their region and many hospitals and other customers have joined joint procurement entities and buying consortia. The result is that demand for healthcare products is increasingly concentrated across our markets globally. Additionally, our contractual pricing arrangements with GPOs, IDNs and public contracting authorities limit our ability to increase prices in order to offset raw materials or component price increases or otherwise. Raw Materials and Component Parts Raw materials and component parts essential to our business are purchased from numerous suppliers worldwide in the ordinary course of business. While many of these materials are generally available, we have experienced and may in the future experience shortages of supply. Additionally, certain of these materials are secured from single source suppliers or on a spot basis and not pursuant to a contractual arrangement. In an effort to manage risk associated with raw materials and component supply, we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure availability and continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. We also seek to develop new and alternative sources of supply where beneficial to our overall raw materials procurement strategy. Refer to