Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2 . Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 177 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 177 Item 9B. Other Information 178 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 179 Item 11. Executive Compensation 179 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 179 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 180 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 180 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 180 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 181 Explanatory Note General On February 13, 2020, we concluded, in consultation with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, that our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, as of and for the interim periods within the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 and the interim periods ended June 30 and March 31, 2019 should no longer be relied upon because of misstatements to our previously reported foreign exchange gains and losses as described below. Restatement This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes the following restated financial information: audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017; unaudited interim financial information as of and for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2019, March 31, 2019, June 30, 2018, and March 31, 2018, for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2018, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, and as of September 30, 2018; and unaudited selected financial data as of December 31, 2017 and as of and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. Selected financial data as of December 31, 2018 and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Refer to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2019, filed on March 17, 2020, for our unaudited restated interim financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and related information. Restatement Background On October 24, 2019, we reported that we had commenced an internal investigation into certain intra-company transactions that impacted our previously reported non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses. Our internal investigation, as it pertains to the evaluation of related financial statement impacts, is complete. We previously had applied a longstanding convention for the initial measurement of foreign exchange transactions and the subsequent remeasurement of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities that was not consistent with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP). Beginning years after the adoption of that convention, certain intra-company transactions were undertaken, after the related exchange rates were already known, solely for the purpose of generating non-operating foreign exchange gains or avoiding foreign exchange losses. We believe that the use of our previous exchange rate convention to generate non-operating foreign exchange gains and avoid losses had occurred for at least ten years. The cumulative impact of correcting misstatements of non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses in periods prior to 2017 has been recorded as a reduction to our opening retained earnings in the consolidated financial statements included herein. As previously disclosed, we voluntarily advised the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of our internal investigation and are continuing to cooperate with the staff of the SEC. Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements As described above, this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes audited restated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. In addition to the correction of misstatements related to non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses, we corrected additional misstatements that were immaterial, individually and in the aggregate, to our previously issued financial statements. Those other immaterial misstatements relate to (i) equipment leased to customers under operating leases, (ii) classification of foreign exchange gains and losses on cash balances and intra-company receivables and payables in our consolidated statements of cash flows, (iii) translation of the financial position and results of operations of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars, (iv) statement of income classification of transition services income related to the separation of Baxalta Incorporated in 2015 and (v) other miscellaneous adjustments. See Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Unaudited interim financial information as of and for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2019, March 31, 2019, June 30, 2018, and March 31, 2018, for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2018, for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, and as of September 30, 2018 has also been restated. See Note 19, Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited), in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. 1 The restatement resulted in the following decreases to our previously reported income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (in millions, except per share data): Six months ended June 30, 2019 Year ended December 31, 2018 Year ended December 31, 2017 Income from continuing operations $ (35) $ (78) $ (115) Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $ (0.07) $ (0.15) $ (0.20) Control Considerations In connection with the restatement, management has reassessed its conclusions regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 and has determined that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of that date. As a result of the material weakness, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2018 and throughout 2019. Management has been implementing changes to strengthen our internal controls and remediate the material weakness, which continued to exist as of December 31, 2019. See Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, for additional information related to the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and our related remediation activities. PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile intravenous (IV) solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; and surgical hemostat and sealant products. Our global footprint and the critical nature of our products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors offices and by patients at home under physician supervision. As of December 31, 2019, we manufactured products in over 20 countries and sold them in over 100 countries. Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As used in this report, Baxter International means Baxter International Inc. and we", "our or "us" means Baxter International and its consolidated subsidiaries (after giving effect to the separation and distribution of Baxalta Incorporated (Baxalta), as further described below), unless the context otherwise requires. Business Segments and Products We manage our business based on three geographic segments: Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia-Pacific). Each of our segments provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; and surgical hemostat and sealant products. For financial information about our segments, see Note 18 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Distribution We have our own direct sales force and also make sales to and through independent distributors, drug wholesalers acting as sales agents and specialty pharmacy or other alternate site providers. In the United States, third parties, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., warehouse and ship a significant portion of our products through their distribution centers. These centers are generally stocked with adequate inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales and distribution methods include frequent contact by sales and customer service representatives, automated communications via various electronic purchasing systems, circulation of catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct-mail campaigns, trade publication presence and advertising. 2 Sales are made and products are distributed on a direct basis or through independent distributors or sales agents in more than 100 countries as of December 31, 2019. International Operations The majority of our revenues are generated outside of the United States and geographic expansion remains a component of our strategy. Our presence includes operations in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada. We are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States. For more information on these risks, see the information under the captions Risks Related to Baxter s Business We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally and Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about foreign and domestic operations and geographic information, see Note 18 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information regarding foreign currency exchange risk, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled Financial Instrument Market Risk in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Contractual Arrangements Our products are sold through contracts with customers, both within and outside the United States. Some of these contracts have terms of more than one year and place limits on our ability to increase prices. In the case of hospitals, governments and other facilities, these contracts may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of products to be purchased by the customer. In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery, many hospitals and other customers of medical products in the United States have joined group purchasing organizations (GPOs), or formed integrated delivery networks (IDNs), to enhance purchasing power. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with manufacturers and distributors and the negotiated prices are made available to members. We have purchasing agreements with several of the major GPOs in the United States. GPOs may have agreements with more than one supplier for certain products. Accordingly, in these cases, we face competition from other suppliers even where a customer is a member of a GPO under contract with us. Purchasing power is similarly consolidated in many other countries. For example, public contracting authorities act as the purchasing entities for the hospitals and other customers of medical products in their region and many hospitals and other customers have joined joint procurement entities and buying consortia. The result is that demand for healthcare products is increasingly concentrated across our markets globally. Raw Materials Raw materials essential to our business are purchased from numerous suppliers worldwide in the ordinary course of business. Although most of these materials are generally available, we at times may experience shortages of supply. In an effort to manage risk associated with raw materials supply, we work closely with our suppliers to help ensure availability and continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. We also seek to develop new and alternative sources of supply where beneficial to our overall raw materials procurement strategy. We are not always able to recover cost increases for raw materials through customer pricing due to contractual limits and market forces. Accordingly, we utilize long-term supply contracts with some suppliers to help maintain continuity of supply and manage the risk of price increases. In connection with the separation and distribution of Baxalta, we entered into a long-term manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxalta. Baxalta manufactures and supplies us with ARTISS, TISSEEL, FLOSEAL and stand-alone thrombin, on a cost-plus basis, under that manufacturing and supply agreement. Competition and Healthcare Cost Containment Our businesses benefit from a number of competitive advantages, including the breadth and depth of our product offerings, our strong relationships with customers, including hospitals and clinics, GPOs, physicians, and patients, many of whom self-administer home-based therapies that we supply. We also benefit from efficiencies and cost advantages resulting from shared manufacturing facilities and the technological advantages of our products. 3 Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in each of our segments from international and domestic healthcare and pharmaceutical companies and providers of all sizes, and these competitors often differ across our businesses. In addition, global and regional competitors continue to expand their manufacturing capacity and sales and marketing channels. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. There has been increasing consolidation in our customer base and by our competitors, which continues to result in pricing and market pressures. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such as price controls, the formation of public contracting authorities, product formularies (lists of recommended or approved products), and competitive tenders which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payers. In the United States, the federal and many state governments have adopted or proposed initiatives relating to Medicaid and other health programs that may limit reimbursement or increase rebates that we and other providers are required to pay to the state. In addition to government regulation, managed care organizations in the United States, which include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, hospital and physician alliances and pharmacy benefit managers, continue to put pressure on the price and usage of healthcare products. Managed care organizations seek to contain healthcare expenditures, and their purchasing strength has been increasing due to their consolidation into fewer, larger organizations and a growing number of enrolled patients. We face similar issues outside of the United States. In Europe and Latin America, for example, the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and controls its expenditures by purchasing products through public tenders, collective purchasing, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public tenders or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products. Intellectual Property Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. We rely on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive position. We own a number of patents and trademarks throughout the world and have entered into license arrangements relating to various third-party patents and technologies. Products manufactured by us are sold primarily under our own trademarks and trade names. Some products distributed by us are sold under our trade names, while others are sold under trade names owned by our suppliers or partners. Trade secret protection of unpatented confidential and proprietary information is also important to us. We maintain certain details about our processes, products and technology as trade secrets and generally require employees, consultants, and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants, and business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Our policy is to protect our products and technology through patents and trademarks on a worldwide basis. This protection is sought in a manner that balances the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for us. We also recognize the need to promote the enforcement of our patents and trademarks and take commercially reasonable steps to enforce our patents and trademarks around the world against potential infringers, including judicial or administrative action where appropriate. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant patent litigation. At any given time, we are involved as either a plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. Such litigation can result in significant royalty or other payments or result in injunctions that can prevent the sale of products. For more information on patent and other litigation, see Note 9 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Research and Development Our investment in research and development (R D), consistent with our portfolio optimization and capital allocation strategies, helps fuel our future growth and our ability to remain competitive in each of our product categories. Accordingly, we continue to focus our investment on select R D programs to enhance future growth through clinical differentiation. Expenditures for our R D activities were $595 million in 2019, $654 million in 2018, and $615 million in 2017. These expenditures include costs associated with R D activities performed at our R D centers located 4 around the world, which include facilities in Belgium, Sweden, India, Italy, Germany, China, Japan and the United States, as well as in-licensing, milestone and reimbursement payments made to partners for R D work performed at non-Baxter locations. For more information on our R D activities, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled Strategic Objectives in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Quality Management Our continued success depends upon the quality of our products. Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, facilitating continuous improvement of our processes, products and services, and assuring the safety and efficacy of our products. Our quality system enables the design, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of our products to ensure that they conform to customer requirements. In order to continually improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our quality system, various measurement, monitoring and analysis methods, such as management reviews and internal, external and vendor audits, are employed at local and central levels. Each product that we market is required to meet specific quality standards, both in packaging and in product integrity and quality. If any of those is determined to be compromised at any time, we endeavor to take corrective and preventive actions designed to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and to meet customer expectations. For more information on corrective actions taken by us, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled Certain Regulatory Matters in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Government Regulation Our operations and many of the products manufactured or sold by us are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government agencies, both within and outside the United States. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in Europe, the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) in China and other government agencies, inside and outside of the United States, administer requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of our products. We must obtain specific approval from FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities before we can market and sell most of our products in a particular country. Even after we obtain regulatory approval to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes and quality systems are subject to continued review by FDA and other regulatory authorities globally, including additional 510(k) and other regulatory submissions, and approvals or the time needed to secure approvals are not certain. State agencies in the United States also regulate our facilities, operations, employees, products and services within their respective states. We, along with our facilities, are subject to periodic inspections and possible administrative and legal actions by FDA and other regulatory agencies inside and outside the United States. Such actions may include warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. As situations require, we take steps to ensure safety and efficacy of our products, such as removing products found not to meet applicable requirements from the market and improving the effectiveness of quality systems. For more information on compliance actions taken by us, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled Certain Regulatory Matters in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are also subject to various laws inside and outside the United States concerning our relationships with healthcare professionals and government officials, price reporting and regulation, the promotion, sales and marketing of our products and services, the importation and exportation of products, the operation of our facilities and distribution of products. In the United States, we are subject to the oversight of FDA, Office of the Inspector General within the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), the Center for Medicare/Medicaid Services (CMS), the Department of Justice (DOJ), Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Defense and Customs and Border Protection in addition to others. We supply products and services to healthcare providers that are reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicare. As a result, our activities are subject to regulation by CMS and enforcement by OIG and DOJ. In each jurisdiction outside the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by government agencies including the EMA in Europe, CFDA in China and other agencies in other jurisdictions. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their enforcement activities with respect to healthcare companies in recent years. These actions appear to be part of a general trend toward increased enforcement activity globally. 5 Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. Our environmental policies require compliance with all applicable environmental regulations and contemplate, among other things, appropriate capital expenditures for environmental protection. Separation of Baxalta On July 1, 2015, we completed the distribution of approximately 80.5% of the outstanding common stock of Baxalta to our stockholders (the Distribution). The Distribution was made to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 17, 2015 (the Record Date), who received one share of Baxalta common stock for each of our shares held as of the Record Date. As a result of the distribution, Baxalta became an independent public company. In 2016, we disposed of our remaining 19.5% interest in Baxalta through a series of transactions, including debt-for-equity exchanges, an equity-for-equity exchange and a contribution to our U.S. pension plan. As a result of these transactions, we extinguished approximately $3.65 billion of our indebtedness, repurchased 11,526,638 of our shares and contributed 17,145,570 Baxalta shares to our U.S. pension plan. On June 3, 2016, Baxalta became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shire plc (Shire). In January 2019, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (Takeda) acquired Shire. As a result of the separation, the consolidated statements of income, consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flow, and related financial information reflect Baxalta s operations, assets and liabilities, and cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the separation of Baxalta. Employees As of December 31, 2019, Baxter employed approximately 50,000 people. Available Information We make available free of charge on our website at www.baxter.com our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the Securities and Exchange Commission website (www.sec.gov). In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and the charters for the committees of our Board of Directors are available on our website at www.baxter.com under About Baxter About us Governance. All the foregoing materials will be made available to stockholders in print upon request by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.