Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 29 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Reserved 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 65 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 133 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 133 Item 9B. Other Information 133 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 133 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 134 Item 11. Executive Compensation 134 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 134 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 135 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 135 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 135 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 135 PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile intravenous (IV) solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; surgical hemostat and sealant products, advanced surgical equipment; smart bed systems; patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies; and respiratory health devices. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, ambulatory surgery centers, doctors offices and patients at home under physician supervision. Our global footprint and the critical nature of our products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. As of December 31, 2023, we manufactured products in over 20 countries and sold them in over 100 countries. Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As used in this report, Baxter International means Baxter International Inc. and we", "our or "us" means Baxter International and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. Recent Strategic Actions In mid-2022, our Board of Directors authorized a strategic review of our business portfolio, with the goal of increasing stockholder value. As part of that review process, we identified and evaluated a range of potential strategic actions, including opportunities for sales and other separation transactions. In January 2023, following the completion of that review, we announced the following planned strategic actions that are intended to enhance our operational effectiveness, accelerate innovation and drive additional stockholder value: (a) a proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care business into an independent publicly traded company focused on kidney care and organ support (the proposed spinoff), (b) our development of a new operating model to simplify our operations and better align our manufacturing and supply chain to our commercial activities and (c) our pursuit of strategic alternatives for our BioPharma Solutions (BPS) business. Following these actions, we intend to emerge as a stronger hospital solutions and connected care company. As a more focused business, we expect to be better positioned to make strategic investments to accelerate our vision and to deliver differentiated value to our stakeholders with our unique combination of products, therapies and connected care platforms. Proposed Separation of Kidney Care Business We are working to complete the proposed separation of our Kidney Care business in the interest of establishing an independent company focused on kidney care and organ support. While we continue to evaluate all strategic options in the interest of maximizing stockholder value, we continue to progress towards our current target of July 2024 for completion of the proposed spinoff of this business. In both 2023 and 2022 we generated $4.45 billion of net sales from our Kidney Care segment, representing approximately 30% and 31%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. We intend for the proposed spinoff to qualify as tax-free to Baxter and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The proposed spinoff is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including final approval from our Board of Directors, the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement on Form 10, receipt of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ruling or related tax opinions from counsel, satisfactory completion of financing arrangements, consultations with works councils and other employee representative bodies and any necessary regulatory approvals. There can be no guarantees that the proposed separation will be completed in the form of a spinoff or over the timeframe described above, or at all. 1 Implementation of New Operating Model and Resulting Segment Change Our reportable segments were previously comprised of the following geographic segments related to our legacy Baxter business: Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia Pacific), and a global segment for our Hillrom business. In the third quarter of 2023, we completed the implementation of a new operating model intended to simplify and streamline our operations and better align our manufacturing and supply chain to our commercial activities. Under this new operating model, our business is comprised of four segments: Medical Products and Therapies, Healthcare Systems and Technologies (formerly referred to as our Hillrom segment), Pharmaceuticals and Kidney Care (which would become an independent publicly traded company following the completion of the proposed spinoff transaction). Our segment reporting was changed during the third quarter of 2023 to align with our new operating model and prior period segment disclosures have been revised to reflect the new segments. Sale of BPS Business On September 29, 2023, we completed the sale of our BPS business and received cash proceeds of $3.96 billion from that transaction. The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our BPS business, including the $2.88 billion pre-tax gain ($2.59 billion net of tax) from the sale of that business and the related cash proceeds received, are reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We intend to use substantially all of the after-tax proceeds from this transaction to repay certain of our debt obligations, including $514 million of commercial paper borrowings and $2.28 billion of long-term debt that we repaid during the fourth quarter of 2023. Acquisition of Hillrom On December 13, 2021, we completed our acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. (Hillrom) for a purchase price of $10.48 billion. Including the assumption of Hillrom's outstanding debt obligations, the enterprise value of the transaction was $12.84 billion. Hillrom was a global medical technology leader and its products and services help enable earlier diagnosis and treatment, optimize surgical efficiency, and accelerate patient recovery while simplifying clinical communication and shifting care closer to home. Hillrom made those outcomes possible through digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices, advanced equipment for the surgical space and more, delivering actionable, real-time insights at the point of care. In 2023 and 2022, our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment generated net sales of $3.01 billion and $2.94 billion, respectively. During 2022, we also recognized $2.81 billion of goodwill impairments and $332 million of indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments related to goodwill and trade name intangible assets that arose from the Hillrom acquisition. See Notes 3, 5, 6 and 18 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about the Hillrom acquisition, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, Hillrom acquisition financing arrangements and the Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment results, respectively. Business Segments and Products We currently manage our global operations based on four segments: Medical Products and Therapies, Healthcare Systems and Technologies, Pharmaceuticals and Kidney Care. The Medical Products and Therapies segment includes sales of our sterile IV solutions, infusion systems, administration sets, parenteral nutrition therapies and surgical hemostat, sealant and adhesion prevention products. The Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment includes sales of our connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring systems and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices and advanced equipment for the surgical space, including surgical video technologies, precision positioning devices and other accessories. The Pharmaceuticals segment includes sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, inhaled anesthesia and drug compounding. The Kidney Care segment includes sales of chronic and acute dialysis therapies and services, including peritoneal dialysis (PD), hemodialysis (HD), continuous renal replacement therapies (CRRT) and other organ support therapies. For financial information about our segments, see Note 18 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2 Business Strategy Our business strategy is focused on driving sustainable growth and innovation aligned with our mission to save and sustain lives and our vision to transform healthcare with a customer focus to help improve patient outcomes, enhance workflow efficiency, and enable cost-effective care. Our diversified and broad portfolio of medical products that treat acute or chronic conditions and our global presence are core components of our strategy as we work to achieve these objectives. We are focused on four strategic pillars as part of our pursuit of industry leading performance: innovation; market expansion; operational efficiency; and capital allocation. Innovation Our innovation strategy, which encompasses both organic and inorganic initiatives, is focused on accelerating our sales growth through the introduction of new connected care and core therapies offerings. Connected care offerings include devices or software that can connect, communicate and/or analyze data to help transform healthcare and improve patient outcomes. Through our acquisition of Hillrom, we are continuing to build out our connected care portfolio offerings, as its product portfolio includes digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools such as smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices and advanced equipment for the surgical space. Our core therapies product offerings include pharmaceuticals and consumable medical products designed to address essential patient and provider needs across the continuum of care. As part of this strategy, we are prioritizing investments that drive innovation in product areas where we believe we have compelling opportunities to better serve patients and healthcare professionals, particularly in markets with higher growth rates. We are working to accelerate the pace at which we bring these advances to market to support our future growth. We are in the midst of launching several new products, geographic expansions and line extensions in areas such as smart pump technology, hospital pharmaceuticals and nutritionals, surgical sealants, smart beds, respiratory vests, chronic and acute renal care and more. These comprise a mix of entirely new product offerings and meaningful improvements to existing technologies. Market Expansion The market expansion component of our strategy includes expanding our portfolio geographically, broadening our portfolio through channel expansion and increasing utilization of our products and therapies through market development activities. These initiatives include using Baxter s geographic footprint to introduce the Healthcare Systems and Technologies product portfolio into new markets, as well as expanding value-added services, increasing adoption of underpenetrated therapies and providing education and advocacy to improve access to our products. Operational Excellence As discussed above under Recent Strategic Actions, we recently implemented a new operating model intended to simplify and streamline our operations and better align our manufacturing and supply chain to our commercial activities. Going forward we expect to be a more integrated and nimble organization that can respond more effectively to changes in the macroeconomic environment while enhancing our ability to drive innovation in our product portfolio. We also continue to focus on increasing efficiencies through automation and digitization and delivering on the targeted cost synergies expected to be achieved from our acquisition of Hillrom. We intend to continue to actively manage our cost structure and strive to commit resources to the highest value uses. Such high value activities include supporting innovation, building out the portfolio, expanding patient access and accelerating growth for our stockholders. Maintaining Disciplined and Balanced Capital Allocation Subject to market conditions and our investment grade targets, our capital allocation strategies currently include the following: debt repayments to support our deleveraging commitments; active portfolio management through the identification of attractive acquisition and divestiture transactions, including the recent divestiture of our BPS business and the proposed Kidney Care separation; and 3 returning capital to stockholders through dividends, while balancing any returns with other strategic actions we take. We also intend to reinstate share repurchases over the longer term. We paid down $2.80 billion of debt during 2023, using proceeds from the sale of our BPS business, and we are committed to retaining our investment grade rating, including taking actions toward achieving a 2.75x net leverage target in 2025. During this deleveraging period, we currently intend to continue paying a dividend, not make any share repurchases and be highly selective with respect to any potential acquisitions. Sales and Distribution We have our own direct sales force and also make sales to and through independent distributors, drug wholesalers acting as sales agents and specialty pharmacy or other alternate site providers. In the United States, third parties, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., warehouse and ship a significant portion of our products through their distribution centers. These centers are generally stocked with adequate inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales and distribution methods include frequent contact by sales and customer service representatives, automated communications via various electronic purchasing systems, circulation of catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct-mail campaigns, trade publication presence and advertising. Sales are made and products are distributed on a direct basis or through independent distributors or sales agents in more than 100 countries as of December 31, 2023. International Operations The majority of our revenues are generated outside of the United States and geographic expansion remains a key component of our strategy, particularly with respect to our Healthcare Systems and Technologies business. Our international presence includes operations in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada. We are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States. For more information on these risks, see the information under the captions Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally and Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates have, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity in