Item 1. Business. 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 18 Item 2. Properties. 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 20 Information about our Executive Officers 20 PART II 22 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 22 Item 6 . [R eserved] . 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 34 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 65 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 65 Item 9B. Other Information. 65 Item 9C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections . 65 PART III 65 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 65 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 66 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 66 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 66 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 66 PART IV 66 Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules. 66 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 68 Signatures 69 3 PART I Item 1. Business. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Best Buy Co., Inc. and, as applicable, its consolidated subsidiaries. Any references to our website addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the websites. Description of Business We were incorporated in the state of Minnesota in 1966. We are driven by our purpose to enrich lives through technology and our vision to personalize and humanize technology solutions for every stage of life. We accomplish this by leveraging our combination of technology and a human touch to meet our customers everyday needs, whether they come to us online, visit our stores or invite us into their homes. We have operations in the U.S. and Canada. Segments and Geographic Areas We have two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of our operations in all states, districts and territories of the U.S. and our Best Buy Health business, and includes the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Ads, Best Buy Business, Best Buy Health, CST, Current Health, Geek Squad, Lively, Magnolia, Pacific Kitchen and Home and Yardbird and the domain names bestbuy.com, currenthealth.com, lively.com and yardbird.com. All of our former stores in Mexico were closed as of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022, and our International segment is now comprised of all operations in Canada under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Mobile and Geek Squad and the domain name bestbuy.ca. In fiscal 2020, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Critical Signal Technologies, Inc. ( CST ) and the predictive healthcare technology business of BioSensics, LLC ( BioSensics ). In fiscal 2022, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Current Health Ltd. ( Current Health ) and Two Peaks, LLC d/b/a Yardbird Furniture ( Yardbird ). Operations Our Domestic and International segments are managed by leadership teams responsible for all areas of the business. Both segments operate an omnichannel platform that allows customers to come to us online, visit our stores or invite us into their homes. Development of merchandise and service offerings, pricing and promotions, procurement and supply chain, online and mobile application operations, marketing and advertising and labor deployment across all channels are centrally managed. In addition, support capabilities (for example, human resources, finance, information technology and real estate management) operate from our corporate headquarters. We also have field operations that support retail, services and in-home teams from our corporate headquarters and regional locations. Our retail stores have procedures for inventory management, asset protection, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, product sales and services, staff training and merchandise display that are largely standardized. All stores generally operate under standard procedures with a degree of flexibility for store management to address certain local market characteristics. While day-to-day operations of our stores is led by store management, more strategic decisions regarding, for example, store locations, format, category assortment and fulfillment strategy are addressed at a market or regional level. Merchandise and Services Our Domestic and International segments have offerings in six revenue categories. The key components of each revenue category are as follows: Computing and Mobile Phones - computing (including desktops, notebooks and peripherals), mobile phones (including related mobile network carrier commissions), networking, tablets (including e-readers) and wearables (including smartwatches); Consumer Electronics - digital imaging, health and fitness products, home theater, portable audio (including headphones and portable speakers) and smart home; Appliances - large appliances (including dishwashers, laundry, ovens and refrigerators) and small appliances (including blenders, coffee makers and vacuums); Entertainment - drones, gaming (including hardware, peripherals and software), movies, music, toys, virtual reality and other software; Services - consultation, delivery, design, health-related services, installation, memberships, repair, set-up, technical support and warranty-related services; and Other - other product offerings, including baby, food and beverage, luggage, outdoor living and sporting goods. Distribution Customers within our Domestic and International segments who purchase product online have the choice to pick up product at a Best Buy store (including curbside pick-up at most stores), at an alternative pick-up location or take delivery direct to their homes. Our ship-from-store capability allows us to improve product availability and delivery times for customers. Most merchandise is shipped directly from manufacturers to our distribution centers. 4 Suppliers and Inventory Our Domestic and International segments purchase merchandise from a variety of suppliers. In fiscal 2022, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 79% of the merchandise we purchased, with 5 suppliers Apple, Samsung, HP, LG and Sony representing approximately 56% of total merchandise purchased. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our vendors that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise or that secure any of the key terms of our arrangements. We carefully monitor and manage our inventory levels in an effort to match quantities on hand with consumer demand as closely as possible. Key elements to our inventory management process include the following: continuous monitoring of consumer demand, continuous monitoring and adjustment of inventory receipt levels and pricing, agreements with vendors relating to reimbursement for the cost of markdowns or sales incentives and agreements with vendors relating to return privileges for certain products. We also have a global sourcing operation to design, develop, test and contract-manufacture our exclusive brands products. Store Development We had 1,144 stores at the end of fiscal 2022 throughout our Domestic and International segments. Our stores are a vital component of our omnichannel strategy, and we believe they are an important competitive advantage. We also have vendor store-within-a-store concepts to allow closer vendor partnerships and a higher quality customer experience. We continuously look for opportunities to optimize our store space, renegotiate leases and selectively open or close locations to support our operations. Refer to Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for tables reconciling our Domestic and International segment stores open at the end of each of the last three fiscal years. Intellectual Property We own or have the right to use valuable intellectual property such as trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including, but not limited to, Best Buy, Best Buy Ads, Best Buy Essentials, Best Buy Health, Best Buy Mobile, Best Buy Totaltech, CST, Current Health, Dynex, Geek Squad, Insignia, Jitterbug, Lively, Magnolia, Modal, My Best Buy, Pacific Kitchen and Home, Pacific Sales, Platinum, Rocketfish , Yardbird and our Yellow Tag logo. We have secured domestic and international trademark and service mark registrations for many of our brands. We have also secured patents for many of our inventions. We believe our intellectual property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company, our stores, our products and our websites. Seasonality Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. A large proportion of our revenue and earnings is generated in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season. Working Capital We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs, for general corporate purposes, investments and growth opportunities. Our working capital needs typically increase in the months leading up to the holiday shopping season as we purchase inventory in advance of expected sales. Competition Our competitors are primarily multi-channel retailers, e-commerce businesses, technology service providers, traditional store-based retailers, vendors and mobile network carriers who offer their products and services directly to customers. We believe our ability to help customers online, in stores and in their homes and to connect technology product and solutions with customer needs provides us key competitive advantages. Some of our competitors have lower cost operating structures and seek to compete for sales primarily on price. We carefully monitor pricing offered by other retailers and service providers, as maintaining price competitiveness is one of our ongoing priorities. In addition, we have price-matching policies that allow customers to request that we match a price offered by certain retail stores and online operators. In order to allow this, we are focused on maintaining efficient operations and leveraging the economies of scale available to us through our global vendor partnerships. We believe our dedicated and knowledgeable people, our integrated online, retail and in-home assets, our broad and curated product assortment, our strong vendor partnerships, our service and support offerings designed to solve real customer needs, our unique ability to showcase technology in distinct store formats and our supply chain are important ways in which we maintain our competitive advantage. 5 Environmental and Social As we pursue our purpose to enrich lives through technology, we are committed to having a positive impact on the world, the environment and the communities in which we operate through interactions with all of our stakeholders, including our customers, employees, vendor partners and shareholders. The Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of our Board of Directors ( Board ) advises and counsels management regarding the effectiveness and risks of our environmental, social and governance strategy, programs and initiatives, including environmental goals and progress, social responsibility programs and initiatives and public policy positions and advocacy. Environmental We are committed to meaningfully reducing our impact on the environment and helping our customers do the same. In fiscal 2022, we invested in two additional solar projects, bringing our total to four. These investments, which are paired with Renewable Energy Credits, will contribute to our efforts to become carbon neutral in our U.S. retail stores. We intend to reduce the use of natural resources in our operations as demonstrated by the following goals, which we believe can be managed within our normal operating budget without significant incremental spend: Reduce carbon emissions 75% by 2030 (over a 2009 baseline) and become carbon neutral by 2040. We plan to achieve this goal by investing in energy efficiency improvements, deploying small-scale onsite and utility-scale renewable energy systems, electrifying our fleet and neutralizing residual emissions. Reduce water consumption 15% by 2025 (over a 2019 baseline). We plan to achieve this goal by aligning with the United Nation s Sustainable Development Goal 6, taking steps to support the ongoing protection of watersheds and identifying actions that lessen our dependence on water. Achieve zero-waste certification at additional distribution center locations. To continue reducing our impact on the environment, we are working toward building a more sustainable supply chain and expanding our Total Resource Use and Efficiency zero-waste certification efforts across our warehousing operations. Reduce single-use plastic bags and transition to sustainable alternatives. We aim to help our customers reduce their impact on the environment as well. Through the sale of ENERGY STAR products, we expect to help our customers reduce carbon emissions 20% by 2030 (over a 2017 baseline), which we estimate will save them at least $5 billion on utility bills. We support the circular economy by keeping consumer products in use for as long as possible through our repair and trade-in services, and lastly, we put materials back into the manufacturing process when products reach the end of their lives through our electronics and appliance recycling program. We have collected more than 2.5 billion pounds of electronics and appliances for recycling since 2009, including more than 192 million pounds in 2021. We remain committed to maintaining this program to collect even more in the years ahead. Social Human Rights and Responsible Sourcing We are committed to respecting and advancing human rights through our alignment with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Further, across all the products and services we procure, we seek to enhance our partnership with suppliers and create value for all stakeholders through our Responsible Sourcing Program. We are active members of the Responsible Business Alliance, which allows us to partner with many of the brands we sell, including Apple, Intel, Microsoft and Samsung. Collectively, we embrace a common Supplier Code of Conduct and audit methodology that seeks to improve working and environmental conditions in the supply chain. Community Impact We are working to build brighter futures for teens from disinvested communities. Through a network of 47 Best Buy Teen Tech Center locations (with a goal of expanding to 100 locations by 2025) and our suite of supporting programs, we are helping prepare teens for careers of the future by providing access to: cutting-edge technology and related training; post-secondary guidance for college prep and technical training programs; mentors who inspire new passions and possibilities; social and emotional support, including mental health resources; and paid internship and career exploration opportunities that put learning into practice. 6 Human Capital Management We believe in the power of our people. Our culture is built on the belief that engaged and committed employees supported by opportunities to learn, grow, innovate and explore can lead to extraordinary outcomes. At the end of fiscal 2022, we employed approximately 105,000 employees in the U.S. and Canada, comprised of approximately 55% full-time employees, 35% part-time employees and 10% seasonal/occasional employees. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We are creating a more inclusive future, both inside our company and in our communities. In fiscal 2021, we set employee diversity goals to be attained by 2025, and we are pleased to report the following progress in fiscal 2022: filled 37% of new, salaried corporate positions with Black, Indigenous and People of Color ( BIPOC ) employees, compared to our goal to fill one of three positions; and filled 26% of new, salaried field positions with female employees, compared to our goal to fill one of three positions. In fiscal 2022, we made a significant commitment to supplier diversity. We plan to spend at least $1.2 billion with BIPOC and diverse businesses by 2025, with a focus on funding and supporting partner organizations that are empowering BIPOC leaders in the tech industry. In addition, w e are investing up to $10 million with Brown Venture Group, a venture capital firm that focuses exclusively on Black, Latinx and Indigenous technology startups in emerging technologies. For our communities, we plan to spend $44 million by 2025 to expand college preparation and career opportunities for BIPOC students, including adding scholarships for Historically Black Colleges and University students and increasing scholarship funding for Best Buy Teen Tech Center youth. The Compensation and Human Resources Committee of our Board supports the development of an inclusive and diverse culture through oversight of our human resources policies and program. The Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of our Board recommends criteria for the selection of individuals to be considered as candidates for election to the board, which includes diversity considerations. Training and Development Personal growth is at the heart of our people strategy and we believe investing in training, upskilling and reskilling programs will produce long-lasting benefits to the organization by creating a more productive, engaged and adaptable workforce. In fiscal 2022, each of our U.S. employees spent an average of at least 50 hours on training and development. We made the following enhancements to our training and development program in fiscal 2022: implemented training content from LinkedIn Learning to augment the trainings specifically created for Best Buy employees; moved to emphasize the importance of skills and abilities, rather than just education and experience, when making hiring decisions, which we believe drives a more inclusive and growth-oriented culture; identified an artificial intelligence platform to proactively plan for future workforce roles, creating new learning and career paths; and piloted a high potential leadership development program and will begin to scale that program across the company. Employee Benefits We strive to help our employees live happy, healthy and productive lives that balances work and home. Our benefits aim to support employees overall well-being and we expanded them in several areas in fiscal 2022, including: maternity leave benefits that offer qualifying employees up to 10 weeks at 100% pay; caregiver support benefits that enable employees to receive personalized help in a time of great need through Wellthy, a caregiver support program, which helps employees with emergency housing, healthcare, substance abuse, complex eldercare issues and many other moments of crisis; and creation of the HOPE Fund Helping Our People in Emergencies in equal partnership with the Richard M. Schultze Family Foundation to provide employees in hardship situations an opportunity to receive up to $2,500 in financial assistance. Additionally, we continued our focus on: enhanced pandemic-related benefits, including free-of-charge vaccination clinics and other vaccination incentives; pay support for those required to quarantine or isolate consistent with public-health guidance; coverage of COVID-19-related health care expenses; expanded caregiver leave; additional support for backup childcare; tutoring reimbursement and access to physical and mental health virtual visits; mental health, including our commitment to raise awareness about mental health, equipping employees with training to notice issues in themselves or others, and then find help; and tuition assistance, including the expansion of our partnership schools giving eligible employees the opportunity to earn a degree with no out-of-pocket costs. 7 The Compensation and Human Resources Committee of our Board oversees risks related to our human capital management through its regular review of our practices, policies and programs, which includes overall employee wellness and engagement in these areas, employee benefit plan compliance, leadership succession planning and wage, retention and hiring programs. Health and Safety The safety of our employees and customers continues to be a top priority. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, our health-and-safety protocols also evolve, informed by CDC guidance, local requirements and enhanced scientific knowledge concerning COVID-19 and the impact of variants of concern. We have offered, and continue to evaluate, enhanced employee benefits throughout the pandemic as further described above within the Employee Benefits section. For more information on environmental and social matters, as well as human capital management, please see Best Buy s Fiscal 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Report, including a Task Force for Climate Related Financial Disclosures index, expected to be published in June 2022, at corporate.bestbuy.com/sustainability . This website and the report are not part of this annual report and are not incorporated by reference herein. Available Information We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). We make available, free of charge on our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents are posted on our website at www.investors.bestbuy.com . The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . We also make available, free of charge on our website, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-laws, the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board and our Code of Business Ethics adopted by our Board, as well as the charters of all of our Board s committees: Audit Committee; Compensation and Human Resources Committee; Finance and Investment Policy Committee; and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. These documents are posted on our website at www.investors.bestbuy.com . Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to Best Buy Co., Inc. Investor Relations Department at 7601 Penn Avenue South, Richfield, MN 55423-3645.