Item 1. Business. 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 15 Item 2. Properties. 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 18 Information about our Executive Officers 18 PART II 20 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 34 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 67 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 67 Item 9B. Other Information. 68 PART III 68 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 68 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 68 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 68 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 69 PART IV 69 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 69 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 70 Signatures 71 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Best Buy Co., Inc. and, as applicable, its consolidated subsidiaries. Any references to our website addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the websites. Description of Business We were incorporated in the state of Minnesota in 1966. We are driven by our purpose to enrich lives through technology. We do that by leveraging our combination of tech and a human touch to meet our customers everyday needs, whether they come to us online, visit our stores or invite us into their homes. We have operations in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Segments and Geographic Areas We have two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations in all states, districts and territories of the U.S. under various brand names including Best Buy, Best Buy Business, Best Buy Express, Best Buy Health, CST, Geek Squad, GreatCall, Lively, Magnolia and Pacific Kitchen and Home and the domain names bestbuy.com and greatcall.com. The International segment is comprised of all operations in Canada and Mexico under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Express, Best Buy Mobile and Geek Squad and the domain names bestbuy.ca and bestbuy.com.mx. On May 9, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Critical Signal Technologies, Inc. ( CST ), a health services company, and on August 7, 2019, we acquired the predictive healthcare technology business of BioSensics, LLC ( BioSensics ). Additional information on these acquisitions is included in Note 2, Acquisitions , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Operations Our Domestic and International segments are managed by leadership teams responsible for all areas of the business. Both segments operate a multi-channel platform that allows customers to come to us online, visit our stores or invite us into their homes. Domestic Segment Development of merchandise and service offerings, pricing and promotions, procurement and supply chain, online and mobile application operations, marketing and advertising and labor deployment across all channels are centrally managed. In addition, support capabilities (for example, human resources, finance and real estate management) are generally performed at our corporate headquarters. We also have field operations that support retail, services and in-home teams from our corporate headquarters and regional locations. Our retail stores have procedures for inventory management, asset protection, transaction processing, customer relations, store administration, product sales and services, staff training and merchandise display that are largely standardized. All stores generally operate under standard procedures with a degree of flexibility for store management to address certain local market characteristics. International Segment Our Canada and Mexico operations are similar to those in our Domestic segment. Merchandise and Services Our Domestic and International segments have offerings in six revenue categories. The key components of each revenue category are as follows: Computing and Mobile Phones - computing and peripherals, e-readers, mobile phones (including related mobile network carrier commissions), networking, tablets and wearables (including smartwatches); Consumer Electronics - digital imaging, health and fitness, home theater, portable audio (including headphones and portable speakers) and smart home; Appliances - large appliances (including dishwashers, laundry, ovens and refrigerators) and small appliances (including blenders, coffee makers and vacuums); Entertainment - drones, gaming hardware and software, peripherals, movies, music, toys, virtual reality and other software; Services - consultation, delivery, design, installation, memberships, protection plans, repair, set-up, technical support and health-related services; and Other - beverages, snacks, sundry items and other product offerings within our International segment (including baby, luggage and sporting goods). 4 Table of Contents Distribution Domestic Segment Customers who purchase products online have the choice to pick up product at a Best Buy store (including curbside pick-up in select stores), at an alternative pick-up location or take delivery direct to their homes. Our ship-from-store capability allows us to improve product availability and delivery times for customers. Most merchandise is shipped directly from manufacturers to our distribution centers located throughout the U.S. In order to meet release dates for certain products, merchandise may be shipped directly to our stores from suppliers. International Segment Our Canada and Mexico distribution models are similar to that of our Domestic segment. Suppliers and Inventory Our Domestic and International segments purchase merchandise from a variety of suppliers. In fiscal 2020, our 20 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 79% of the merchandise we purchased, with five suppliers Apple, Samsung, Hewlett-Packard, Sony and LG representing approximately 56% of total merchandise purchased. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our vendors that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise or that secure any of the key terms of our arrangements. We carefully monitor and manage our inventory levels in an effort to match quantities on hand with consumer demand as closely as possible. Key elements to our inventory management process include the following: continuous monitoring of historical and projected consumer demand, continuous monitoring and adjustment of inventory receipt levels and pricing, agreements with vendors relating to reimbursement for the cost of markdowns or sales incentives and agreements with vendors relating to return privileges for certain products. We also have a global sourcing operation to design, develop, test and contract-manufacture our exclusive brand products. Store Development We had 1,175 large-format and 56 small-format stores at the end of fiscal 2020 throughout our Domestic and International segments. Our stores are a vital component of our multi-channel strategy and we believe they are an important competitive advantage. We also have vendor store-within-a-store concepts to allow closer vendor partnerships and a higher quality customer experience. We continuously look for opportunities to optimize our store space, renegotiate leases and selectively open or close locations to support our operations. Refer to Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for tables reconciling our Domestic and International segment stores open at the end of each of the last three fiscal years. Intellectual Property We own or have the right to use valuable intellectual property such as trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including, but not limited to, Best Buy, Best Buy Express, Best Buy Health, Best Buy Mobile, CST, Dynex, Geek Squad, GreatCall, Insignia, Jitterbug, Lively, Magnolia, Modal, My Best Buy, Pacific Kitchen and Home, Pacific Sales, Platinum, Rocketfish , 5Star and our Yellow Tag logo. We have secured domestic and international trademark and service mark registrations for many of our brands. We have also secured patents for many of our inventions. We believe our intellectual property has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our company, our stores, our products and our websites. Seasonality Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. A large proportion of our revenue and earnings is generated in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Working Capital We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs, for general corporate purposes and investment and growth opportunities. Our working capital needs typically increase in the months leading up to the holiday shopping season as we purchase inventory in advance of expected sales. Competition Our competitors are primarily multi-channel retailers, e-commerce businesses, technology service providers, traditional store-based retailers, vendors and mobile network carriers who offer their products and services directly to customers. We believe our ability to help customers online, in stores and in their homes and to connect technology product and solutions with customer needs provides us key competitive advantages. Some of our competitors have lower cost operating structures and seek to compete for sales primarily on 5 Table of Contents price. We carefully monitor pricing offered by other retailers and service providers, as maintaining price competitiveness is one of our ongoing priorities. In addition, we have price-matching policies that allow customers to request that we match a price offered by certain retail stores and online operators. In order to allow this, we are focused on maintaining efficient operations and leveraging the economies of scale available to us through our global vendor partnerships. We believe our dedicated and knowledgeable people, our integrated online, retail and in -home assets, our broad and curated product assortment, our strong vendor partnerships, our service and support offerings designed to solve real customer needs, our unique ability to showcase technology in distinct store formats and our supply chain are important ways in which we maintain our competitive advantage. Environmental and Social Matters Best Buy is an organization built on values-driven leadership and a clear purpose to enrich lives through technology. We strive to be a good corporate citizen in all our interactions with stakeholders, including customers, employees, vendor partners, shareholders, the environment and communities in which we operate. For our business to succeed, we need to hire and retain the best employees. To accomplish this, we must maintain a supportive and inclusive culture that values everyone s talents, life experiences and backgrounds and offer compensation and benefits that maintain our competitiveness and reflect our values. We recently added two new benefit offerings: surrogacy assistance and increased adoption expense reimbursement. They were the latest in a suite of expanded benefits, based on employee feedback, that included paid caregiver leave, paid time off for part-time employees and expanded mental health resources. Best Buy has also continued to publicly show commitment to equality and non-discrimination. We joined the Human Rights Campaign and 160 leading U.S. companies to support the Equality Act, federal legislation that would add protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) people to U.S. civil rights laws. We also signed an amicus brief with the U.S. Supreme Court to show support for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. We are committed to supporting teens from underserved communities as they build brighter futures through technology, training and mentorship. The primary way we do this is through our network of Best Buy Teen Tech Centers. The centers are safe, after-school learning spaces equipped with cutting-edge technology where youth learn new tech skills, stay on track with school, gain exposure to new career possibilities and benefit from positive adult and peer relationships. We had 33 Teen Tech Centers operating at the end of fiscal 2020 and plan to have at least 60 operating over the next few years. Minimizing carbon emissions in our operations is a priority at Best Buy. We have achieved significant progress toward our carbon-reduction goal of 75 percent by 2030 (over a 2009 baseline), from both operational reductions and renewable sourcing. In fiscal 2020, we made an investment in partnership with U.S. Bank and X-Elio to build a solar field that is expected to produce 174,000 MWh of clean electricity per year. We also set a new goal to help our customers cut carbon emissions by 20 percent by 2030 through purchasing ENERGY STAR certified products, which will save them $5 billion on utility bills. In addition, we collected more than 204 million pounds of consumer electronics and appliances for recycling last year, bringing our total to more than 2.1 billion pounds. We continue to earn recognition from prestigious organizations, including being named to CDP s Climate A List and ranking among Barron s Most Sustainable Companies. Please refer to the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability section on our website for further information on environmental and social performance. Number of Employees At the end of fiscal 2020, we employed nearly 125,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. We offer our employees a wide array of company-paid benefits that vary within our company due to customary local practices and statutory requirements, which we believe are competitive locally and in the aggregate relative to others in our industry. Available Information We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). We make available, free of charge on our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These documents are posted on our website at www.investors.bestbuy.com . The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . We also make available, free of charge on our website, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-laws, the Corporate Governance Principles of our Board of Directors ( Board ) and our Code of Business Ethics adopted by our Board, as well as the charters of all of our Board s committees: Audit Committee; Compensation and Human Resources Committee; Finance and Investment Policy Committee; and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. These documents are posted on our website at www.investors.bestbuy.com . Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to Best Buy Co., Inc. Investor Relations Department at 7601 Penn Avenue South, Richfield, MN 55423-3645. 6 Table of Contents