Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Information About Our Executive Officers 20 PART II 21 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B. Other Information 102 PART III 103 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 103 Item 11. Executive Compensation 103 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 103 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 103 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 103 PART IV 104 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 104 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 104 EXHIBIT INDEX 105 SIGNATURES 110 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General Becton, Dickinson and Company (also referred to herein as BD ) was incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in 1897. BD s executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references in this Form 10-K to "BD", "the Company", "we", "our" or "us" refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context. BD is a global medical technology company engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products used by healthcare institutions, physicians, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. We provide customer solutions that are focused on improving medication management and patient safety; supporting infection prevention practices; equipping surgical and interventional procedures; improving drug delivery; aiding anesthesiology care; enhancing the diagnosis of infectious diseases and cancers; advancing cellular research and applications; and supporting the management of diabetes. Business Segments BD s operations consist of three worldwide business segments: BD Medical, BD Life Sciences and BD Interventional. As is further described below, BD completed its acquisition of C.R. Bard, Inc. ("Bard") on December 29, 2017, and BD Interventional includes the majority of Bard s product offerings, along with certain product offerings formerly within BD Medical. Additionally, certain of Bard's product offerings are included within BD Medical as part of the Medication Delivery Solutions unit. Information with respect to BD s business segments and the Bard acquisition is included in Note 7 and Note 10, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference. BD Medical BD Medical produces a broad array of medical technologies and devices that are used to help improve healthcare delivery in a wide range of settings. The primary customers served by BD Medical are hospitals and clinics; physicians office practices; consumers and retail pharmacies; governmental and nonprofit public health agencies; pharmaceutical companies; and healthcare workers. BD Medical consists of the following organizational units: Organizational Unit Principal Product Lines Medication Delivery Solutions Peripheral intravenous ("IV") catheters (conventional, safety); advanced peripheral catheters (guidewire assisted peripherally inserted venous catheters, midline catheters, port access); central lines (peripherally inserted central catheters); acute dialysis catheters; vascular access technology (ultrasonic imaging); vascular care (lock solutions, prefilled flush syringes, disinfecting caps); vascular preparation (skin antiseptics, dressings, securement); needle-free IV connectors and extensions sets; closed-system drug transfer devices; hazardous drug detection; conventional and safety hypodermic syringes and needles, anesthesia needles (spinal, epidural) and trays; enteral syringes; and sharps disposal systems. Medication Management Solutions IV medication safety and infusion therapy delivery systems, including infusion pumps, dedicated disposables, and IV fluids; medication compounding workflow systems; automated medication dispensing; automated supply management systems; medication inventory optimization and tracking systems; and informatics and analytics solutions for enterprise medication management. Diabetes Care Syringes, pen needles and other products related to the injection or infusion of insulin and other drugs used in the treatment of diabetes. Pharmaceutical Systems Prefillable drug delivery systems - prefillable syringes, safety, shielding and self-injection systems and support services - provided to pharmaceutical companies for use as containers for injectable pharmaceutical products, which are then placed on the market as drug/device combinations. 1 Table of Contents BD Life Sciences BD Life Sciences provides products for the safe collection and transport of diagnostics specimens, and instruments and reagent systems to detect a broad range of infectious diseases, healthcare-associated infections and cancers. In addition, BD Life Sciences produces research and clinical tools that facilitate the study of cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better understanding of normal and disease processes. That information is used to aid the discovery and development of new drugs and vaccines, and to improve the diagnosis and management of diseases. The primary customers served by BD Life Sciences are hospitals, laboratories and clinics; blood banks; healthcare workers; public health agencies; physicians office practices; retail pharmacies; academic and government institutions; and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. BD Life Sciences consists of the following organizational units: Organizational Unit Principal Product Lines Integrated Diagnostic Solutions Integrated systems for specimen collection; safety-engineered blood collection products and systems; automated blood culturing and tuberculosis culturing systems; molecular testing systems for infectious diseases and women s health; microorganism identification and drug susceptibility systems; liquid-based cytology systems for cervical cancer screening; rapid diagnostic assays for testing of respiratory infections; microbiology laboratory automation; and plated media for clinical and industrial applications. Biosciences Fluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers; antibodies and kits for performing cell analysis; reagent systems for life science research; solutions for high-throughput single-cell gene expression analysis; and clinical oncology, immunological (HIV) and transplantation diagnostic/monitoring reagents and analyzers. BD Interventional BD Interventional provides vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products that are intended, with the exception of the V. Muller surgical and laparoscopic instrumentation products, to be used once and then discarded or are either temporarily or permanently implanted. The primary customers served by BD Interventional are hospitals, individual healthcare professionals, extended care facilities, alternate site facilities, and patients via our Homecare business. BD Interventional consists of the following organizational units: Organizational Unit Principal Product Lines Surgery Hernia and soft tissue repair, biological grafts, bioresorbable grafts, biosurgery, and other surgical products; BD ChloraPrep surgical infection prevention products; and V. Mueller surgical and laparoscopic instrumentation products. Peripheral Intervention Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( PTA ) balloon catheters, peripheral vascular stents, self-expanding and balloon-expandable stent grafts, vascular grafts, drug coated balloons, ports, biopsy, chronic dialysis, feeding, inferior vena catheter filters, endovascular fistula creation devices and drainage products, and atherectomy and thrombectomy system. Urology and Critical Care Urine management devices, urological drainage products, intermittent catheters, kidney stone management devices, Targeted Temperature Management, and fecal management devices. 2 Table of Contents C. R. Bard Acquisition On December 29, 2017, BD completed the acquisition of Bard, a global medical technology company in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products. Under the terms of the transaction, Bard common shareholders received approximately $222.93 in cash and 0.5077 shares of BD stock per Bard share. BD financed the cash portion of the total consideration transferred with available cash, which included net proceeds raised in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 through registered public offerings of securities and debt transactions. Additional information regarding the Bard acquisition is contained in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference. Divestitures Advanced Bioprocessing In October 2018, BD completed the sale of its Advanced Bioprocessing business pursuant to a definitive agreement that was signed in September 2018. Respiratory Solutions and Vyaire Medical In April 2018, BD completed the sale of its remaining interest in Vyaire Medical. BD received gross cash proceeds of approximately $435 million and recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately $303 million. Additional information regarding these divestitures is contained in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference. International Operations BD s products are manufactured and sold worldwide. For reporting purposes, we organize our operations outside the United States as follows: Europe, EMA (which includes the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Middle East and Africa); Greater Asia (which includes countries in Greater China, Japan, South Asia, Southeast Asia, Korea, and Australia and New Zealand); Latin America (which includes Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and South America); and Canada. The principal products sold by BD outside the United States are hypodermic needles and syringes; insulin syringes and pen needles; BD Hypak brand prefillable syringe systems; infusion therapy products, including BD Alaris infusion pumps; pharmacy automation equipment, including Pyxis systems; devices and services for the treatment of peripheral arterial and venous disease, cancer detection, and end-stage renal disease and maintenance; synthetic and resorbable mesh, biologic implants and fixation systems to complement innovative techniques for inguinal, ventral and other hernia repair procedures; medical devices for urine drainage in the acute care hospital and home care settings; BD Vacutainer brand blood collection products; diagnostic systems and laboratory equipment and products; and flow cytometry instruments and reagents. BD has manufacturing operations outside the United States in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, China, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Geographic information with respect to BD s operations is included under the heading Geographic Information in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the profitability related to foreign revenues to fluctuate more than the profitability related to domestic revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business due to the factors cited herein, as well as the economic environment, local commercial and economic policies and political uncertainties. See further discussion of these risks in