Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Information About Our Executive Officers 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 28 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II 32 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. (Reserved) 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 113 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B. Other Information 113 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 114 PART III 115 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 115 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 115 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 115 PART IV 116 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 EXHIBIT INDEX 117 SIGNATURES 123 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General Becton, Dickinson and Company (also referred to herein as "BD") was incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in 1897. BD s executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references in this Form 10-K to "BD", "the Company", "we", "our" or "us" refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context. BD is a global medical technology company engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products used by healthcare institutions, physicians, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. We provide customer solutions that are focused on improving medication management and patient safety; supporting infection prevention practices; equipping surgical and interventional procedures; improving drug delivery; aiding anesthesiology care; enhancing the diagnosis of infectious diseases and cancers; and advancing cellular research and applications. Business Segments BD s operations consist of three worldwide business segments: BD Medical, BD Life Sciences and BD Interventional. As is further described below, on September 3, 2024, BD completed its acquisition of Edwards Lifesciences Critical Care product group ( Critical Care ), which was renamed as BD Advanced Patient Monitoring ( Advanced Patient Monitoring ) and operates as a separate organizational unit within the Company s Medical segment. Information with respect to BD s business segments is included in Notes 8, 11 and 16, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference. BD Medical BD Medical produces a broad array of medical technologies and devices that are used to help improve healthcare delivery in a wide range of settings. The primary customers served by BD Medical are hospitals and clinics; physicians office practices; consumers and retail pharmacies; governmental and nonprofit public health agencies; pharmaceutical companies; and healthcare workers. BD Medical consists of the following organizational units: 1 Table of Contents Organizational Unit Principal Product Lines Medication Delivery Solutions Peripheral intravenous ("IV") catheters (conventional, safety); advanced peripheral catheters (guidewire assisted peripherally inserted venous catheters, midline catheters, port access); central lines (peripherally inserted central catheters); acute dialysis catheters; vascular access technology (ultrasonic imaging); vascular care (lock solutions, prefilled flush syringes, disinfecting caps); vascular preparation (skin antiseptics, dressings, securement); needle-free IV connectors and extensions sets; closed-system drug transfer devices; hazardous drug detection; conventional and safety hypodermic syringes and needles, anesthesia needles (spinal, epidural) and trays; enteral syringes; and sharps disposal systems. Medication Management Solutions IV medication safety and infusion therapy delivery systems, including infusion pumps, dedicated disposables, and IV fluids; medication compounding workflow systems; automated medication dispensing; automated supply management systems; medication inventory optimization and tracking systems; informatics and analytics solutions for enterprise medication management; and pharmacy automation systems. Pharmaceutical Systems Prefillable drug delivery systems - prefillable syringes, safety, shielding and self-injection systems and support services (combination product testing, technical and regulatory) - provided to pharmaceutical companies for use as containers for injectable pharmaceutical products, which are then placed on the market as drug/device combinations. Advanced Patient Monitoring Advanced hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's heart function and fluid status in surgical and intensive care settings. BD Life Sciences BD Life Sciences provides products for the safe collection and transport of diagnostics specimens, and instruments and reagent systems to detect a broad range of infectious diseases, healthcare-associated infections and cancers. In addition, BD Life Sciences produces research and clinical tools that facilitate the study of cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better understanding of normal and disease processes. That information is used to aid the discovery and development of new drugs and vaccines, and to improve the diagnosis and management of diseases. The primary customers served by BD Life Sciences are hospitals, laboratories and clinics; blood banks; healthcare workers; physicians office practices; academic and government institutions; and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. BD Life Sciences consists of the following organizational units: Organizational Unit Principal Product Lines Integrated Diagnostic Solutions Integrated systems for specimen collection; safety-engineered blood collection products and systems; automated blood culturing and tuberculosis culturing systems; molecular testing systems for infectious diseases and women s health; microorganism identification and drug susceptibility systems; liquid-based cytology systems and HPV tests for cervical cancer screening and genotyping; rapid diagnostic assays for testing of respiratory infections at the point of care; microbiology laboratory automation; and plated media for clinical and industrial applications. Biosciences Fluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers; antibodies and kits for performing cell analysis; reagents for life science research; solutions for high-throughput single-cell gene and protein expression analysis; and clinical oncology, immunological (HIV) and transplantation diagnostic/monitoring reagents, analyzers and informatics. 2 Table of Contents BD Interventional BD Interventional provides vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products that are intended to be used once and then discarded or are either temporarily or permanently implanted. The primary customers served by BD Interventional are hospitals , ambulatory surgery centers, individ ual healthcare professionals, extended care facilities, alternate site facilities, and patients via our Homecare business. BD Interventional consists of the following organizational units: Organizational Unit Principal Product Lines Surgery Hernia and soft tissue repair, biological grafts, bioresorbable grafts, biosurgery, and other surgical products, BD Surgiphor Antimicrobial Irrigation System, and BD ChloraPrep surgical infection prevention products. Peripheral Intervention Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty ( PTA ) balloon catheters, radio frequency ablation catheters, peripheral vascular stents, self-expanding and balloon-expandable stent grafts, vascular grafts, drug coated balloons, ports, biopsy, chronic dialysis, inferior vena catheter filters, endovascular fistula creation devices and drainage products, and atherectomy and thrombectomy systems. Urology and Critical Care Urine management and measurement devices, indwelling, intermittent and external urine catheters, kidney stone management devices, Targeted Temperature Management, and fecal management devices. Acquisitions Edwards Lifesciences Critical Care Product Group On September 3, 2024, BD completed the acquisition of Critical Care, which was renamed as BD Advanced Patient Monitoring. The fair value of consideration transferred in connection with the acquisition was $3.911 billion. Since the acquisition date, financial results for Advanced Patient Monitoring s product offerings are being reported as a separate organizational unit within the Medical segment. BD funded the transaction with cash on hand, using net proceeds raised through debt issuances in the third quarter of fiscal year 2024, as further discussed in Note 16, and borrowings under our commercial paper program. Additional information regarding this acquisition is contained in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference. Parata On July 18, 2022, BD completed the acquisition of Parata Systems ( Parata ), an innovative provider of pharmacy automation solutions. The fair value of consideration transferred in connection with the acquisition was $1.548 billion. Since the acquisition date, financial results for Parata's product offerings are being reported within results for the Medical segment s Medication Management Solutions unit. Additional information regarding this acquisition is contained in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference. 3 Table of Contents Divestitures Surgical Instrumentation Platform In August 2023, BD completed the sale of the Interventional segment s Surgical Instrumentation platform pursuant to a definitive agreement that was signed in June 2023. BD recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately $268 million, which was recorded as a component of Other operating expense (income), net in fiscal year 2023. The historical financial results for the Surgical Instrumentation platform have not been classified as a discontinued operation. Additional information regarding this divestiture is contained in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference. Spin-Off of Diabetes Care On April 1, 2022, BD completed the separation and distribution of Embecta Corp. ( Embecta ), formerly BD's Diabetes Care business, into a separate, publicly-traded company. The historical results of the Diabetes Care business (previously included in BD s Medical segment), as well as interest expense related to indebtedness incurred by Embecta prior to the spin-off date, have been reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods prior to the spin-off date of April 1, 2022. Additional disclosures regarding our spin-off of the Diabetes Care business are provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference. International Operations BD s products are manufactured and sold worldwide. For reporting purposes, we organize our operations outside the United States as follows: EMEA (which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa); Greater Asia (which includes countries in Greater China, Japan, South Asia, Southeast Asia, Korea, and Australia and New Zealand); Latin America (which includes Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and South America); and Canada. BD has manufacturing operations outside the United States in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, China, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Geographic information with respect to BD s operations is included under the heading Geographic Information in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the profitability related to foreign revenues to fluctuate more than the profitability related to domestic revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business due to the factors cited herein. See further discussion of these risks in