ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 26 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 27 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 27 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 27 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 28 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 30 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 30 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 30 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 55 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 57 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 96 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 96 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 96 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 96 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 97 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 97 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 97 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 97 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 97 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 98 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 98 EXHIBIT INDEX 98 SIGNATURES 101 2 Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS . This Annual Report on Form 10 K ( Annual Report ) and the documents incorporated by reference herein may include forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements are provided under the safe harbor protection of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and generally can be identified by words or phrases written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as anticipate, believe, could, depends, estimate, expect, intend, likely, may, plan, potential, seek, should, will, would, or other similar words or variations thereof, or the negative thereof, but these terms are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from any future results or outcomes expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report or that are incorporated by reference herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the risks and uncertainties disclosed in this Annual Report, including those discussed under the headings Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. While forward-looking statements are our best prediction at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them and are cautioned against doing so. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other possible future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. If a circumstance occurs after the date of this Annual Report that causes any of our forward-looking statements to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, we undertake no obligation to announce publicly the change to our expectations, or to make any revision to our forward-looking statements, to reflect any change in assumptions, beliefs or expectations, or any change in events, conditions or circumstances upon which any forward-looking statement is based, unless required by law. Item 1. Business. GENERAL Franklin Resources, Inc. ( Franklin ) is a holding company with subsidiaries operating under our Franklin Templeton and/or subsidiary brand names. Franklin s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE ) under the ticker symbol BEN and is included in the Standard Poor s 500 Index. In this Annual Report, Franklin and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as the Company, and words such as we, us, our and similar terms refer to the Company. We have one operating segment, investment management and related services. We offer our services and products under our various distinct brand names, including, but not limited to, Franklin , Templeton , Legg Mason , Alcentra , Benefit Street Partners , Brandywine Global Investment Management , Clarion Partners , ClearBridge Investments , Fiduciary Trust International , Franklin Bissett , Franklin Mutual Series , K2 , Lexington Partners , Martin Currie , O Shaughnessy Asset Management, Royce Investment Partners and Western Asset Management Company . Unless otherwise indicated, our funds means the funds offered under our various brand names. We are a global investment management organization with $1,297.4 billion in assets under management ( AUM ) as of September 30, 2022. Our mission is to help people all over the world achieve the most important milestones of their lives through investment management expertise, wealth management and technology solutions. Through our specialist investment managers, we offer investment specialization bringing extensive capabilities across our fixed income, equity, alternative and multi-asset products. For 75 years, we have been committed to providing clients with exceptional investment management services and have developed a globally diversified business, including through strategic acquisitions. 3 Table of Contents We provide our investment management and related services to retail, institutional and high-net-worth investors in jurisdictions worldwide. We deliver our investment capabilities through a variety of products and vehicles and multiple points of access, including directly to investors and through financial intermediaries. Our investment products include our sponsored funds, as well as institutional and high-net-worth separate accounts, retail separately managed account programs, sub-advised products, and other investment vehicles. Our funds include registered funds (including exchange-traded funds, or ETFs ) and unregistered funds. Related services include fund administration, sales and distribution, and shareholder servicing. Our sales and distribution services include distribution-related financial technology. We may perform services directly or through third parties. We also provide sub-advisory services to certain investment products sponsored by other companies that may be sold to investors under the brand names of those other companies or on a co-branded basis. We offer our clients the combined experience of our investment professionals with expertise across asset classes and a sharp focus on managing risk. We are committed to delivering strong investment performance for our clients, and to offering a broad range of strategies and drawing on our diverse experiences and perspectives gained through our long history in the investment management business. We know that success demands smart and effective business innovation, solutions and technologies, and we remain focused on investment excellence, innovating to meet evolving client goals, and building strong partnerships by delivering superior client service. We continue to focus on the long-term investment performance of our investment products and on providing high quality service to our clients. The business and regulatory environments in which we operate globally remain complex, uncertain and subject to change. We are subject to various laws, rules and regulations globally that impose restrictions, limitations, registration, reporting and disclosure requirements on our business, and add complexity to our global compliance operations. Incorporated herein by reference is certain financial information about our segment and geographic areas contained in Note 18 Segment and Geographic Information in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report. Recent Acquisition On November 1, 2022, we acquired BNY Alcentra Group Holdings, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, Alcentra ) from The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Alcentra is a leading European credit and private debt manager, with global expertise in senior secured loans, high yield bonds, private credit, structured credit, special situations and multi-strategy credit strategies. We expect this acquisition to expand our alternative credit capabilities and presence in Europe, and continue to strengthen the breadth and scale of our alternative asset strategies. Company History Since 1947, the Company and its predecessors have been engaged in the investment management and related services business. Franklin was incorporated in the State of Delaware in November 1969, and originated our mutual fund business with the initial Franklin family of funds, known for its fixed income funds and growth and value-oriented equity funds. Over the years, we have expanded and developed our business to meet evolving investor needs, in part, by acquiring companies engaged in investment management and related services. We have added, among others: (i) the Templeton investment firm, known for its global investing strategies and value style of investing, in 1992, (ii) the Franklin Mutual Series investment firm, known for its value-oriented equity funds, in 1996, (iii) the Franklin Bissett investment firm, known for its Canadian fixed income funds and growth-oriented equity funds, in 2000, (iv) the Fiduciary Trust International investment, trust and fiduciary services firm, in 2001, (v) the Benefit Street Partners U.S. alternative credit manager firm, in 2019, (vi) the Athena Capital Advisors investment and wealth management firm, in March 2020, (vii) The Pennsylvania Trust Company investment, trust and fiduciary services firm, in May 2020, (viii) the Legg Mason global investment firm, including certain specialist investment managers, in July 2020, (ix) the O Shaughnessy Asset Management quantitative asset management firm, in December 2021, and (x) the Lexington Partners global investment firm, known for its alternative asset capabilities, in April 2022. OUR BUSINESS STRUCTURE Through our subsidiaries, we are committed to helping investors navigate global markets, as well as continuing to evolve and build on our strengths to meet the needs of our clients. We generally derive our revenues and income from providing investment management and related services to our products and the products we sub-advise. Our investment management fees, which represent a significant portion of our revenues, depend to a large extent on the level and relative mix of our AUM and the types of services provided, which are subject to change. 4 Table of Contents Our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, including our specialist investment managers. Our specialist investment managers include subsidiaries registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the Advisers Act ), as well as subsidiaries registered as investment adviser equivalents in jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Ireland, India, Japan, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, Switzerland, South Korea, Commonwealth of The Bahamas, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom ( U.K. ). Our U.S.-registered funds and most of our non-U.S.-registered funds operate as independent companies subject to the supervision and oversight of the funds own boards of directors or trustees. Our registered open-end funds, or mutual funds, continuously offer their shares to investors. Our registered closed-end funds issue a set number of shares to investors in a public offering which are traded on a public stock exchange. Our investment managers manage a fund s portfolio of securities in accordance with the fund s stated objectives. To support the funds operations, our subsidiaries either provide or arrange for the investment and other management, shareholder servicing and administrative services required by the funds. We outsource various administration, technology, transfer agency and other services for our funds to third-party providers. An investor may purchase shares of a mutual fund directly from us or through a broker-dealer, financial adviser, bank or other similar financial intermediary that provides investment advice to the investor, or an investor may purchase shares of a closed-end fund or ETF on the stock exchange where the fund is traded. Financial intermediaries may earn fees and commissions and receive other compensation with respect to fund shares sold to investors. Our AUM by Asset Class and Product Type We offer a broad product mix under our fixed income, equity, alternative, multi-asset and cash management asset classes. Our fixed income capabilities include government, municipals, corporate credit, bank loans, securitized, multi-sector, currencies and other investments. Our equity capabilities include value, deep value, core value, blend, growth at a reasonable price (GARP), growth, convertibles, sector, Shariah, smart beta and thematic investments. Our alternative capabilities include private debt, hedge funds, private equity, real estate and infrastructure investments. Our multi-asset capabilities include income, real return, balanced/hybrid, total return, target data/risk, absolute return, tactical asset allocation and managed volatility investments. We believe, despite market risks, that we have a competitive advantage as a result of the economic and geographic diversity of our products available to our clients. Our U.S. funds include U.S. mutual funds, closed-end funds, ETFs and other products. Our non-U.S. funds include a variety of cross-border funds principally domiciled in Luxembourg or Ireland, registered for sale to non-U.S. investors in certain other countries, and international locally domiciled funds and products for the particular local market. Our institutional separate account services are provided to various institutions for which we serve as an investment adviser. Our retail separately managed accounts, commonly known as managed accounts or wrap programs, are sponsored by various financial institutions. We also offer and serve as investment adviser to various other products. Our fees for providing investment management services are generally based on a percentage of AUM in the accounts that we advise, the asset classes of the accounts, and the types of services that we provide. AUM by asset class and product type was as follows (primarily based on where product is domiciled): (in billions) as of September 30, 2022 U.S. Funds Non-U.S. Funds Institutional Separate Accounts Retail Separately Managed Accounts Other Total Percentage of Total AUM Fixed Income $ 146.9 $ 35.6 $ 238.2 $ 28.0 $ 42.2 $ 490.9 38 % Equity 188.9 68.1 35.5 66.7 33.1 392.3 30 % Alternative 5.7 6.0 32.1 181.3 225.1 17 % Multi-Asset 82.2 7.5 6.8 5.4 29.6 131.5 10 % Cash Management 28.6 27.9 1.1 57.6 5 % Total $ 452.3 $ 145.1 $ 313.7 $ 100.1 $ 286.2 $ 1,297.4 100 % See Assets under Management under Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report for additional information about our AUM. Broadly speaking, other than 5 Table of Contents AUM changes due to acquisitions, changes in our AUM depend primarily upon two factors: (i) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities and instruments held in the portfolio of investments, and (ii) the level of net flows. Changing market conditions and the evolving needs of our clients may cause asset volatility and a shift in our asset mix, potentially resulting in an increase or decrease in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on our AUM. Our Specialist Investment Managers Our specialist investment managers offer diverse perspectives and specialized expertise across asset classes and strategies. Across our business, our specialist investment managers generally focus on a portion of the asset management industry in terms of the types of assets managed (primarily fixed income, equity or alternatives) and each may differ in the types of products and services offered, the investment styles utilized, and the types and geographic locations of its clients. Each typically markets its products and services under its own brand name, with certain distribution functions provided by our corporate distribution subsidiaries. We have in place revenue sharing arrangements with certain of our specialist investment managers. Our specialist investment managers include: Benefit Street Partners, Brandywine Global, Clarion Partners, ClearBridge Investments, Fiduciary Trust International, Franklin Equity Group, Franklin Mutual Series, Franklin Templeton Emerging Markets Equity, Franklin Templeton Fixed Income, Franklin Templeton Global Private Equity, Franklin Templeton Investment Solutions, K2 Advisors, Lexington Partners, Martin Currie, O Shaughnessy Asset Management, Royce Investment Partners, Templeton Global Equity Group, Templeton Global Macro and Western Asset Management. Our Broad Range of Services and Capabilities 1. Investment Management Services Through our specialist investment managers, we offer a broad range of services and capabilities under our fixed income, equity, alternative, multi-asset and cash management asset classes. We also offer diverse strategies across active, smart beta and passive approaches, in a broad range of vehicles. Our investment products are offered globally to retail, institutional and high-net-worth clients, which may include, among others, individual investors, institutional investors, sovereign wealth funds, defined benefit and contribution plans, endowments and charitable foundations, healthcare systems and insurance companies. Our investment products include mutual funds, closed-end funds, private funds, institutional separate accounts, retail separately managed accounts, and other products. Our products and capabilities are designed to accommodate a variety of investment goals and preferences, from capital appreciation to capital preservation, as well as sustainable investing and other environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) preferences. We are committed to partnering closely with our clients to understand their challenges and aspirations, and drawing on our investment capabilities and resources to offer and/or design the right investment solutions for them. We distribute and market globally our different capabilities under our brand names through various subsidiaries and multiple points of access, including directly to investors and through financial intermediaries. We primarily engage new institutional business through our relationships with pension, defined contribution and management consultants, direct sales efforts and additional mandates from our existing client relationships, as well as from our responses to requests for proposals. We also market and distribute our products through various subsidiaries to institutional investors with separate accounts. A few of our subsidiaries also serve as direct marketing broker-dealers for institutional investors for certain of our private funds, and some of our private funds may utilize third-party placement agents. Our services also include management of our ETF platforms. Our ETF platforms include smart beta and actively managed ETFs, as well as additional lower fee passive ETF products. ETFs trade like stocks, fluctuate in market value and may trade at prices above or below the ETF s net asset value. Our specialist investment managers provide investment management services pursuant to agreements in effect with each of our investment products and/or clients, including products for which we provide sub-advisory services. Investment management fees are generally determined as a percentage of AUM pursuant to such contractual arrangements. Our investment management services include services to accounts for which we have full investment discretion and to accounts for which we have no investment discretion. Our services include fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, including original economic, political, industry and company research, and analyses of suppliers, customers and competitors. Our management fee on an account varies with the types of services that we provide for the account, among other things. 6 Table of Contents For our U.S. mutual funds, the board of directors or trustees of each fund and our management personnel regularly review the investment management fee structures for the funds in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Most of our investment management agreements between our subsidiaries and our U.S. mutual funds must be renewed each year after an initial two-year term, and must be specifically approved at least annually by a vote of each fund s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the Investment Company Act ), or by a vote of the holders of a majority of the fund s outstanding voting securities. In addition, our U.S. agreements generally may be terminated by either party without penalty after prior written notice. Our non-U.S. mutual funds, private funds, institutional and high-net-worth separate accounts, and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services, are typically subject to various termination rights and/or renewal provisions, which often provide for termination upon relatively short notice with little or no penalty. Investment management fees are at times waived or voluntarily reduced when, for example, a new fund/account is established, and then increased to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels. 2. Retail Separately Managed Account Programs Certain of our specialist investment managers provide asset management services to retail separately managed account programs sponsored by various financial institutions. These programs typically allow securities brokers or other financial intermediaries to offer their clients the opportunity to choose from a number of asset management services pursuing different investment strategies provided by one or more investment managers, and generally charge an all-inclusive fee that can cover asset management, trade execution, asset allocation and custodial and administrative services. 3. Alternative Strategies Certain of our specialist investment managers manage alternative investment strategies which provide our clients with alternatives to traditional equity and fixed income products and services. Our alternative products include private credit funds and structured products, business development companies, hedge funds (funds of funds and custom advisory solutions), private equity funds, venture capital funds and real estate funds. These products employ various investment strategies and approaches, including loan origination, collateralized loan obligations, high-yield credit, hedge fund advisory, private equity and infrastructure transactions in emerging markets, global macro, financial technology, consumer loans, direct real estate investments, and custom-tailored investment programs. 4. High-Net-Worth Investment Management, Trust and Custody Through our Fiduciary Trust International group, including its trust company and investment adviser subsidiaries, and through certain other of our subsidiaries, we provide investment management and related services to, among others, high-net-worth individuals and families, family offices, foundations and institutional clients. Fiduciary Trust International offers investment management and advisory services across different investment styles and asset classes. The majority of these client assets are actively managed by individual portfolio managers, while a significant number of clients also seek multi-manager, multi-asset class solutions. Through our trust company subsidiaries, including Fiduciary Trust International, we also may provide separately managed accounts, private funds, and trust, custody and related services, including administration, performance measurement, estate planning and tax planning. 5. Sales and Distribution Our global distribution framework is organized into two groups. Our global advisory services group is responsible for sales, marketing and business development, and maintains a regional distribution model. Our global alliances and new business strategies group oversees our digital wealth management and distribution-related financial technology, joint ventures, seed capital allocations, and direct-to-consumer initiatives. Our groups work closely together to meet the needs of our advisors, clients and investors. There are many sales channels across each region, which may include retail, institutional, private wealth, retirement, insurance, and other specialty sales. Our global footprint and breadth of investment capability provides the opportunity for us to work with global financial institutions to add value through and beyond investing, including by building business relationships and global economic partnerships. In addition, certain of our specialist investment managers have their own sales and marketing teams that distribute their products and services, primarily to institutional investors, both directly and through consultants. Consultants play a large role in institutional investment management by helping clients select and retain investment managers. Institutional investment management clients and their consultants tend to be highly sophisticated and investment performance-driven. 7 Table of Contents Our sales and distribution capabilities and related efforts are critical components of our business and may be impacted by global distribution trends and changes within the financial services industry. In the U.S., our corporate distribution subsidiaries generally serve as the principal underwriters and distributors of shares of most of our mutual funds. Outside the U.S., certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries provide sales, distribution and marketing services to our non-U.S. mutual funds. Some of our non-U.S. mutual funds, particularly our Luxembourg and Irish domiciled fund ranges, are distributed globally on a cross-border basis, while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. We earn sales and distribution fees primarily by distributing our mutual funds pursuant to distribution agreements with the funds. Under our distribution agreements with our U.S. mutual funds, we offer and sell the fund shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with selling, marketing and distributing the fund shares, including the costs of developing and producing sales literature, shareholder reports and prospectuses. Our sales and distribution fees primarily consist of upfront sales commissions and ongoing distribution fees. Sales commissions are earned from the sale of certain classes of sponsored funds at the time of purchase and may be reduced or eliminated depending on the amount invested and the type of investor. Therefore, our sales fees generally will change with the overall level of gross sales, the size of individual transactions, and the relative mix of sales between different share classes and types of investors. Our mutual funds generally pay us distribution fees in return for sales, marketing and distribution efforts on their behalf. The majority of our U.S. mutual funds, with the exception of certain money market funds and certain other funds specifically designed for purchase through separately managed account programs, have adopted distribution plans under Rule 12b-1 (the Rule 12b-1 Plans ) promulgated under the Investment Company Act. The Rule 12b-1 Plans permit the funds to pay us for marketing, marketing support, advertising, printing and sales promotion services relating to the distribution of their shares, subject to the Rule 12b-1 Plans limitations on amounts based on daily average AUM. Similar arrangements exist for the distribution of non-U.S. mutual funds. The Rule 12b-1 Plans are established for one-year terms and must be approved annually by a vote of each fund s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act. The Rule 12b-1 Plans are subject to termination at any time by a majority vote of the disinterested fund directors or trustees or by the particular fund s shareholders. We pay substantially all of our sales and distribution fees earned as revenues, including fees earned under the Rule 12b-1 Plans, to the financial advisers and other intermediaries that sell our funds on our behalf. The distribution agreements with our U.S. mutual funds generally provide for us to pay commission expenses for sales of fund shares to qualifying broker-dealers and other independent financial intermediaries. These financial intermediaries receive various sales commissions and other fees for services in matching investors with funds whose asset classes match such investors goals and risk profiles. The interme