ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 29 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 30 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 30 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 30 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 31 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 33 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 34 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 35 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 63 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 65 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 107 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 107 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 107 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 108 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 108 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 108 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 108 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 108 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 109 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 109 EXHIBIT INDEX 109 SIGNATURES 112 2 Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS . This Annual Report on Form 10 K ( Annual Report ) and the documents incorporated by reference herein may include forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements are provided under the safe harbor protection of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and generally can be identified by words or phrases written in the future tense and/or preceded by words such as anticipate, believe, could, depends, estimate, expect, intend, likely, may, plan, potential, seek, should, will, would, or other similar words or variations thereof, or the negative thereof, but these terms are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from any future results or outcomes expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report or that are incorporated by reference herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the risks and uncertainties disclosed in this Annual Report, including those discussed under the headings Risk Factors, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. While forward-looking statements are our best prediction at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them and are cautioned against doing so. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other possible future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. If a circumstance occurs after the date of this Annual Report that causes any of our forward-looking statements to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, we undertake no obligation to announce publicly the change to our expectations, or to make any revision to our forward-looking statements, to reflect any change in assumptions, beliefs or expectations, or any change in events, conditions or circumstances upon which any forward-looking statement is based, unless required by law. Item 1. Business. GENERAL Franklin Resources, Inc. ( Franklin ) is a holding company with subsidiaries operating under our Franklin Templeton and/or subsidiary brand names. Franklin s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE ) under the ticker symbol BEN and is included in the Standard Poor s 500 Index. In this Annual Report, Franklin and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as the Company, and words such as we, us, our and similar terms refer to the Company. We offer our services and products under our various distinct brand names, including, but not limited to, Franklin , Templeton , Legg Mason , Balanced Equity Management , Benefit Street Partners , Darby , Edinburgh Partners , Fiduciary Trust , Franklin Bissett , Franklin Mutual Series , K2 and LibertyShares . In addition, pursuant to our acquisition of Legg Mason, Inc. ( Legg Mason ) on July 31, 2020, as described further below, we acquired certain additional brand names including Brandywine Global Investment Management , Clarion Partners , ClearBridge Investments , Martin Currie , QS Investors , Royce Investment Partners and Western Asset Management Company . Unless otherwise indicated, our funds means the funds offered under our various brand names. We are a global investment management organization with $1,418.9 billion in assets under management ( AUM ) as of September 30, 2020 . Our mission is to help clients achieve better outcomes through investment management expertise, wealth management and technology solutions. Through our investment adviser subsidiaries ( specialist investment managers ), including those acquired through our Legg Mason acquisition, we bring extensive capabilities in fixed income, equity, custom multi-asset solutions and alternatives. With more than 70 years of investment experience, we are committed to providing clients with exceptional investment management services and have developed a globally diversified business, including through strategic acquisitions. Our specialist investment managers offer diverse perspectives and specialized expertise across asset classes and strategies, distributed to both institutional and retail clients. 3 Table of Contents Through our investment products, we provide investment management and related services to retail, institutional and high-net-worth investors in jurisdictions worldwide. We deliver our investment capabilities through a variety of products and vehicles and via multiple points of access, including directly to investors and through financial intermediaries. Our investment products include our sponsored funds, as well as institutional and high-net-worth separate accounts, retail separately managed account programs, sub-advised products, and other investment vehicles. Our sponsored funds include registered funds (including exchange-traded funds, or ETFs ) and unregistered funds. We offer a broad product mix of fixed income, equity, multi-asset, alternative and cash management asset classes and solutions that meet a variety of investment goals and needs for investors. In addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales and distribution, and shareholder servicing. We may perform services directly or through third parties. We also provide sub-advisory services to certain investment products sponsored by other companies that may be sold to investors under the brand names of those other companies or on a co-branded basis. We offer our clients the combined experience of our investment professionals with expertise across asset classes and a sharp focus on managing risk. We aim to deliver strong investment performance for our clients by offering a broad range of strategies and drawing on the extensive experience and perspective gained through our long history in the investment management business. We know that success demands smart and effective business innovation, solutions and technologies, and we remain focused on investment excellence, innovating to meet evolving client goals, and building strong partnerships by delivering superior client service. We continue to focus on the long-term investment performance of our investment products and on providing high quality customer service to our clients. The business and regulatory environments in which we operate globally remain complex, uncertain and subject to change. We are subject to various laws, rules and regulations globally that impose restrictions, limitations, registration, reporting and disclosure requirements on our business, and add complexity to our global compliance operations. Acquisition of Legg Mason On July 31, 2020 , we completed our acquisition of Legg Mason pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 17, 2020, by and among Franklin, Legg Mason and Alpha Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Franklin (the Merger Agreement ), pursuant to which Legg Mason became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Franklin. Under the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the acquisition, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Legg Mason for a purchase consideration of $4.5 billion in cash and $0.2 billion related to the settlement of historical compensation arrangements. Legg Mason has outstanding debt with an aggregate maturity value of $2.0 billion . The transaction increased our assets under management by $797.4 billion as of the date of the acquisition. The acquisition significantly deepens our presence in key geographies and creates an expansive investment platform that is well balanced between institutional and retail client AUM. Other Recent Development Effective October 1, 2020, the capabilities of QS Investors, which became one of our specialist investment managers through the Legg Mason acquisition, were combined with our Franklin Templeton Multi-Asset Solutions group to form Franklin Templeton Investment Solutions, a solutions platform designed to deliver an expanded range of investment capabilities to clients. Our combined teams of investment professionals oversee various multi-asset strategies, leveraging a broad spectrum of investment capabilities from fundamental to quantitative. Company History Since 1947, the Company and its predecessors have been engaged in the investment management and related services business. Franklin was incorporated in the State of Delaware in November 1969, and originated our mutual fund business with the initial Franklin family of funds, known for its fixed income funds and growth and value-oriented equity funds. Over the years, we have expanded and developed our business to meet evolving investor needs, in part, by acquiring companies engaged in investment management and related services. We have added, among others: (i) the Templeton family of funds, known for its global investing strategies and value style of investing, in 1992, (ii) the Franklin Mutual Series family of funds, known for its value-oriented equity funds, in 1996, (iii) the Franklin Bissett family of funds, known for its Canadian taxable fixed income funds and growth-oriented equity funds, in 2000, (iv) the Fiduciary Trust investment management, trust and fiduciary services firm, in 2001, (v) the Darby family of funds, known for its emerging markets investing strategies, in 2003, (vi) the Balanced Equity Management Pty. Limited specialty Australian equity manager, in 2011, (vii) the K2 Advisors hedge funds solutions provider, in 2012, (viii) the Edinburgh Partners global value investment manager based in the United Kingdom (the U.K. ), in 2018, (ix) the Benefit Street Partners U.S. alternative credit manager, in 2019, (x) the Athena Capital Advisors investment and wealth management firm, in March 2020, (xi) The Pennsylvania Trust Company investment management, 4 Table of Contents trust and fiduciary services firm, in May 2020, and (xii) the Legg Mason global investment management organization, including certain specialist investment managers, on July 31, 2020. OUR BUSINESS STRUCTURE We believe in the value of active investment management. Through our subsidiaries, we are committed to helping investors navigate global markets, as well as continuing to evolve and build on our strengths to meet the needs of our clients. Through our investment products, including our expanded products acquired through the Legg Mason transaction, we serve a variety of clients including retail, institutional and high-net-worth investors in regions and jurisdictions worldwide. We generally derive our revenues and net income from providing investment management and related services to our products and sub-advised products. Our investment management fees, which represent the majority of our revenues, depend to a large extent on the level and relative mix of our AUM and the types of services provided. These fees and arrangements change from time to time. Our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, including those specialist investment managers registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the Advisers Act ), those registered as investment adviser equivalents in jurisdictions including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Ireland, India, Japan, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, Switzerland, South Korea, Commonwealth of The Bahamas, the United Arab Emirates, the U.K., and certain other subsidiaries. Our U.S.-registered funds and most of our non-U.S.-registered funds operate as independent companies subject to the supervision and oversight of the funds own boards of directors or trustees. Most of our funds are registered open-end funds that continuously offer their shares to investors. We also offer registered closed-end funds that issue a set number of shares to investors in a public offering which shares are then traded on a public stock exchange. Our specialist investment managers manage a fund s portfolio of securities in accordance with the fund s stated objectives. The funds themselves do not have employees. To support the funds operations, our subsidiaries either provide or arrange for the investment and other management, shareholder servicing and administrative services required by the funds. We have outsourced certain administration services for our funds to third-party providers. An investor may purchase shares of an open-end fund through a broker-dealer, financial adviser, bank or other similar financial intermediary that provides investment advice to the investor, or an investor may purchase shares of a closed-end fund on the stock exchange where the fund is traded. Financial intermediaries may earn fees and commissions and receive other compensation with respect to fund shares sold to investors. Our AUM by Asset Class We offer a broad product mix under our fixed income, equity, multi-asset, alternative and cash management asset classes and solutions to meet a variety of investment goals. Our fees for providing investment management services are generally based on a percentage of AUM in the accounts that we advise, the asset classes of the accounts, and the types of services that we provide for the accounts. As of September 30, 2020 , our total AUM by asset class on a worldwide basis was as follows: Asset Class Value in Billions Percentage of Total AUM Fixed Income $ 656.7 46 % Equity 432.0 31 % Multi-Asset 133.8 9 % Alternative 124.0 9 % Cash Management 72.4 5 % Total $ 1,418.9 100 % See Assets under Management under Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report for additional information. 5 Table of Contents Broadly speaking, other than changes in net assets due to acquisitions or dispositions by us (such as our acquisition of Legg Mason), the change in the net assets of our products depends primarily upon two factors: (i) the increase or decrease in the market value of the securities and instruments held in the portfolio of investments, and (ii) the level of inflows as compared to the level of outflows. We are subject to the risk of asset volatility resulting from changes in the global capital markets. In addition, changing market conditions and the evolving needs of our clients may cause a shift in our asset mix, potentially resulting in an increase or decrease in our revenues and income depending upon the nature of our AUM and the level of management fees we earn based on our AUM. Our AUM by Product Type We believe, despite market risks, that we have a competitive advantage as a result of the economic and geographic diversity of our products available to our clients. As of September 30, 2020 , our total AUM by product type was as follows: (in billions) Asset Class U.S. Funds Non-U.S. Funds Institutional Separate Accounts Retail Separately Managed Accounts Other Accounts, Alternative Investment Products and Trusts Total Fixed Income $ 199.1 $ 69.0 $ 342.8 $ 30.1 $ 15.7 $ 656.7 Equity 215.4 71.2 57.2 65.4 22.8 432.0 Multi-Asset 81.9 8.0 6.4 7.8 29.7 133.8 Alternative 6.0 9.0 33.1 75.9 124.0 Cash Management 36.4 35.0 1.0 72.4 Total $ 538.8 $ 192.2 $ 440.5 $ 103.3 $ 144.1 $ 1,418.9 U.S. Funds. Our U.S. funds include U.S.-registered open-end and closed-end funds, ETFs and other products. As of September 30, 2020 , our five largest U.S. funds represented, in the aggregate, 11% of total AUM. Non-U.S. Funds. Our non-U.S. funds include a variety of funds principally domiciled in Luxembourg or Ireland, registered for sale to non-U.S. investors in certain other countries, and products for the particular local market. Institutional Separate Accounts. Our institutional separate accounts are for various institutions for which we serve as an investment adviser. Retail Separately Managed Accounts. Our retail separately managed accounts, commonly known as managed accounts or wrap programs, are sponsored by various financial institutions. Other Accounts, Alternative Investment Products and Trusts. We also offer and serve as investment adviser to other accounts, alternative investment products and trusts. Certain Specialist Investment Managers Acquired Through the Legg Mason Transaction We acquired certain specialist investment managers through the Legg Mason transaction. Our specialist investment managers generally focus on a portion of the asset management industry in terms of the types of assets managed (primarily fixed income, equity or alternatives) and each differs in the types of products and services offered, the investment styles utilized, the distribution channels used, and the types and geographic locations of its clients. Each typically markets its products and services under its own brand name, with certain distribution functions provided by our corporate distribution subsidiaries. We have in place revenue sharing arrangements with certain of our specialist investment managers acquired through the Legg Mason transaction. Below is a brief overview of our specialist investment managers acquired through the Legg Mason transaction. Brandywine Global Investment Management is a global asset manager based in Philadelphia, with additional offices in the U.K., Canada and Singapore. It provides investment advisory services primarily to separately managed accounts for institutional clients in a range of fixed income, including global and international fixed income, and equity investment strategies. It also provides investment advisory services to U.S. mutual funds, international locally domiciled funds, cross-border funds, privately offered funds, and separately managed account programs sponsored by third parties. 6 Table of Contents Clarion Partners is a manager of real estate investment funds based in New York, with additional offices in Dallas, Los Angeles, Boston, Washington, DC, the U.K. and Germany. It provides a broad range of equity and debt real estate strategies across the risk/return spectrum through separate accounts as well as private funds primarily aimed at institutional investors and acts as sub-adviser to a publicly offered Franklin Templeton real estate income fund aimed at retail investors. ClearBridge Investments is an equity asset manager based in New York, with additional offices in Baltimore, Wilmington and Australia. It provides asset management services to certain equity funds (including balanced funds and closed-end funds), retail separately managed account programs, and to institutional clients primarily through separate accounts. In addition, the capabilities of RARE Infrastructure, a specialist investment manager acquired through the Legg Mason transaction based in Australia, have been integrated into ClearBridge. Martin Currie is an international equity specialist based in Scotland, with additional offices in other locations in the U.K., Australia and Singapore. It manages U.S. and international equity portfolios for a global client base of financial institutions, foundations, endowments, pension funds, family offices, government agencies and investment funds. QS Investors is a customized solutions and global quantitative equities investment manager based in New York, with an additional office in Boston. It provides asset management and advisory services to a diverse array of institutional clients. Effective October 1, 2020, the capabilities of QS Investors were combined with our multi-asset solutions group to form our Franklin Templeton Investment Solutions platform. QS Investors remains an indirect subsidiary of Franklin. Royce Investment Partners is the investment adviser to The Royce Funds, a proprietary range of equity U.S. mutual funds, and to certain of our international funds. In addition, it manages other pooled and separately managed accounts, primarily for institutional clients. Based in New York, Royce generally invests in smaller company stocks using a value approach. Western Asset Management Company is a fixed income asset manager based in Pasadena with additional offices and operations around the globe. Its focus is on long-term value investing across a range of fixed income sectors. Western Asset offers fixed income strategies across the liquidity, maturity and risk spectrums. Our Range of Services and Capabilities 1. Investment Management Services We are committed to providing active investment management and strategic advice for our clients. Our specialist investment managers offer fixed income, equity, multi-asset and alternative strategies through various investment products. Through our investment products, we provide a broad array of investment management services to retail, institutional and high-net-worth clients. Our investment products include registered open-end and closed-end funds, private funds, institutional separate accounts, retail separately managed accounts, and other accounts, alternative investment products and trusts. Our clients include institutions, corporations, endowments, charitable foundations, pension and defined contribution plans, and individuals. We distribute and market globally our different capabilities under our brand names through various subsidiaries. We primarily attract new institutional business through our relationships with pension, defined contribution and management consultants, direct sales efforts and additional mandates from our existing client relationships, as well as from our responses to requests for proposals. We also market and distribute our products through various subsidiaries to institutional investors with separate accounts. A few of our subsidiaries also serve as direct marketing broker-dealers for institutional investors for certain of our private funds, and some of our private funds may utilize third-party placement agents. Our services also include management of our ETF platforms. Our ETF platforms include smart beta and actively managed ETFs, as well as additional lower fee passive ETF products. ETFs trade like stocks, fluctuate in market value and may trade at prices above or below the ETF s net asset value. Our specialist investment managers provide investment management services pursuant to agreements in effect with each of our investment products and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services. Investment management fees are generally determined as a percentage of AUM pursuant to such contractual arrangements. Our investment management services include services to accounts for which we have full investment discretion and to accounts for which we have no investment discretion. Our services include fundamental investment research and valuation analyses, including original economic, political, industry and company research, and analyses of suppliers, customers and competitors. Our management fee on an account varies with the types of services that we provide for the account, among other things. 7 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries that provide discretionary investment management services for our products and sub-advised products either perform or obtain investment research, and determine which securities the products will purchase, hold or sell under the supervision and oversight of the funds boards of directors or trustees, as applicable. In addition, these subsidiaries may take all appropriate steps to implement such decisions, including arranging for the selection of broker-dealers and the execution and settlement of trades in accordance with applicable criteria set forth in the management agreements, internal policies, and applicable law and practice. Our subsidiaries that provide non-discretionary investment management services perform investment research for our clients and make recommendations as to which securities the clients purchase, hold or sell, and may or may not perform trading activities for the products. For our U.S.-registered funds, the board of directors or trustees of each fund and our management personnel regularly review the investment management fee structures for the funds in light of fund performance, the level and range of services provided, industry conditions and other relevant factors. Most of our investment management agreements between our subsidiaries and our funds must be renewed each year (after an initial two-year term), and must be specifically approved at least annually by a vote of each fund s board of directors or trustees as a whole and separately by a majority of its directors or trustees who are not interested persons of the fund under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the Investment Company Act ), or by a vote of the holders of a majority of the fund s outstanding voting securities. Our U.S. agreements automatically terminate in the event of their assignment, as defined in the Investment Company Act. In addition, either party may terminate such agreement without penalty after prior written notice. If agreements representing a significant portion of our AUM were terminated, it would have a material adverse impact on us. Under our investment management agreements with our funds and accounts, our monthly and annual fee rates may vary by asset class and type of services provided. Our agreements generally permit us to provide services to more than one fund or account and to other clients so long as our ability to render services to each fund/account is not impaired, and so long as purchases and sales of portfolio securities for various advised funds/accounts are made on an equitable basis. We use a master/feeder fund structure in certain situations. This structure allows an investment adviser to manage a single portfolio of securities at the master fund level and have multiple feeder funds that invest substantially all of their respective assets into the master fund. Individual and institutional shareholders generally invest in the feeder funds, which can offer a variety of tax, service and distribution options. Our non-U.S.-registered funds, private funds, institutional and high-net-worth separate accounts, and the products for which we provide sub-advisory services are typically subject to various termination rights and/or renewal provisions. Investment management fees are at times waived or voluntarily reduced when a new fund/account is established, and then increased to contractual levels within an established timeline or as net asset values reach certain levels. 2. Retail Separately Managed Account Programs Certain of our specialist investment managers provide asset management services to certain retail separately managed account programs sponsored by various financial institutions. These programs typically allow securities brokers or other financial intermediaries to offer their clients the opportunity to choose from a number of asset management services pursuing different investment strategies provided by one or more asset managers, and generally charge an all-inclusive fee that covers asset management, trade execution, asset allocation and custodial and administrative services. 3. Alternative Strategies Certain of our specialist investment managers manage alternative investment strategies. These strategies provide our clients with alternatives to traditional equity and fixed income products and services. Our alternative products include private credit funds and structured products, business development companies, hedge funds (funds of funds and custom advisory solutions), private equity funds, venture capital funds and real estate funds. These products employ various investment strategies and approaches, including loan origination, collateralized loan obligations, high-yield credit, hedge fund advisory, private equity and infrastructure transactions in emerging markets, global macro, financial technology, consumer loans, direct real estate investments, and custom-tailored investment programs. 8 Table of Contents 4. High-Net-Worth Investment Management, Trust and Custody Through 