Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11. Executive Compensation 86 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 87 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 87 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 87 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statements Schedules 87 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 SIGNATURES 91 SCHEDULE II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 93 2 Forward-Looking Statement Information. Certain matters discussed in this report, including the information presented in Part II under Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contain statements, estimates, and projections that are forward-looking statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Words such as aim, ambition, anticipate, aspire, believe, can, continue, could, envision, estimate, expect, expectation, intend, may, might, plan, potential, project, pursue, see, seek, should, will, would, and similar words indicate forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date we make them. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors (many beyond our control) that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience or from our current expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Part I under