Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 77 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 77 Item 9B. Other Information 77 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 77 Item 11. Executive Compensation 77 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 77 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 77 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 78 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statements Schedules 78 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 SIGNATURES 81 SCHEDULE II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 84 2 Forward-Looking Statement Information. Certain matters discussed in this report, including the information presented in Part II under Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contain statements, estimates, and projections that are forward-looking statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Words such as aim, anticipate, aspire, believe, can, continue, could, envision, estimate, expect, expectation, intend, may, might, plan, potential, project, pursue, see, seek, should, will, would, and similar words indicate forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date we make them. Except as required by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors (many beyond our control) that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience or from our current expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Part I under