Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 32 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Reserved 39 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 62 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 62 Item 9B. Other Information 65 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 65 Item 11. Executive Compensation 65 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 65 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 65 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 65 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 66 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts E- 1 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F- 1 SIGNATURES S- 1 1 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information to investors. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward looking statements that reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. Forward looking statements include all statements that are not historical in nature. We have tried to identify these forward looking statements by using words including "may," "will," "should," "could," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "continue" and similar expressions. These forward looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward looking statements. These factors include the risks, uncertainties, trends and other factors discussed under the headings "