Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 33 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 2. Properties 48 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 49 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 49 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 50 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 52 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 86 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 88 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 88 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 88 Item 9B. Other Information 89 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 90 Item 11. Executive Compensation 90 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 90 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 90 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 90 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 91 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Signatures 95 Consolidated Financial Statements F- 1 Table of Contents NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements that are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Act. These forward-looking statements may be accompanied by such words as aim, anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, "goal," intend, may, plan, potential, possible, will, would and other words and terms of similar meaning. Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements regarding: the anticipated amount, timing and accounting of revenues; contingent, milestone, royalty and other payments under licensing, collaboration, acquisition or divestiture agreements; tax positions and contingencies; collectability of receivables; pre-approval inventory; cost of sales; research and development costs; compensation and other selling, general and administrative expenses; amortization of intangible assets; foreign currency exchange risk; estimated fair value of assets and liabilities; and impairment assessments; expectations, plans and prospects relating to sales, pricing, growth and launch of our marketed and pipeline products; the timing, outcome and impact of administrative, regulatory, legal and other proceedings related to our patents and other proprietary and intellectual property rights, tax audits, assessments and settlements, pricing matters, sales and promotional practices, product liability and other matters; patent terms, patent term extensions, patent office actions and expected availability and period of regulatory exclusivity; the potential impact of increased product competition in the markets in which we compete, including increased competition from generics, biosimilars, prodrugs and products approved under abbreviated regulatory pathways; our plans and investments in our core and emerging growth areas, as well as implementation of our corporate strategy; the drivers for growing our business, including our plans and intention to commit resources relating to research and development programs and business development opportunities, as well as the potential benefits and results of, and the anticipated timing to complete, certain business development transactions; our ability to finance our operations and business initiatives and obtain funding for such activities; the costs and timing of potential clinical trials, filings and approvals, and the potential therapeutic scope of the development and commercialization of our and our collaborators pipeline products; adverse safety events involving our marketed products, generic or biosimilar versions of our marketed products or any other products from the same class as one of our products; the potential impact of healthcare reform in the United States (U.S.) and measures being taken worldwide designed to reduce healthcare costs and limit the overall level of government expenditures, including the impact of pricing actions and reduced reimbursement for our products; our manufacturing capacity, use of third-party contract manufacturing organizations, plans and timing relating to changes in our manufacturing capabilities and activities in new or existing manufacturing facilities; the impact of the continued uncertainty of the credit and economic conditions in certain countries in Europe and our collection of accounts receivable in such countries; the potential impact on our results of operations and liquidity of the United Kingdom's (U.K.) departure from the European Union (E.U.); lease commitments, purchase obligations and the timing and satisfaction of other contractual obligations; and the impact of new laws, including the Swiss Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing, regulatory requirements, judicial decisions and accounting standards. Table of Contents These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those that are described in