Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 40 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 54 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 54 Item 2. Properties 55 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 57 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 57 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 58 Item 6. Reserved 59 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 60 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 91 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 93 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B. Other Information 94 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 95 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 Item 11. Executive Compensation 96 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 96 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 96 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 97 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Signatures 100 Consolidated Financial Statements F- 1 T able of Contents NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements that are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act) with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Act. These forward-looking statements may be accompanied by such words as aim, anticipate, believe, could, "contemplate," "continue," estimate, expect, forecast, "goal," intend, may, plan, potential, possible, "predict," "project", "should," "target," will, would or the negative of these words or other words and terms of similar meaning. Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements regarding: the anticipated amount, timing and accounting of revenue; contingent, milestone, royalty and other payments under licensing, collaboration, acquisition or divestiture agreements; tax positions and contingencies; collectability of receivables; pre-approval inventory; cost of sales; research and development costs; compensation and other selling, general and administrative expense; amortization of intangible assets; foreign currency exchange risk; estimated fair value of assets and liabilities; and impairment assessments; expectations, plans and prospects relating to product approvals, sales, pricing, growth, reimbursement and launch of our marketed and pipeline products; the potential impact of increased product competition in the markets in which we compete, including increased competition from new originator therapies, generics, prodrugs and biosimilars of existing products and products approved under abbreviated regulatory pathways, including generic or biosimilar versions of our products or competing products; patent terms, patent term extensions, patent office actions and expected availability and periods of regulatory exclusivity; our plans and investments in our portfolio as well as implementation of our corporate strategy; the execution of our strategic and growth initiatives, including the ultimate success of our acquisition of Reata and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, including future performance of the SKYCLARYS product and anticipated synergies, as well as the exploration of strategic options for our biosimilars business; the drivers for growing our business, including our plans and intention to commit resources relating to discovery, research and development programs and business development opportunities as well as the potential benefits and results of, and the anticipated completion of, certain business development transactions and cost-reduction measures, including our Fit for Growth program; the expectations, development plans and anticipated timelines, including costs and timing of potential clinical trials, regulatory filings and approvals, of our products, drug candidates and pipeline programs, including collaborations with third-parties, as well as the potential therapeutic scope of the development and commercialization of our and our collaborators pipeline products; the timing, outcome and impact of administrative, regulatory, legal and other proceedings related to our patents and other proprietary and intellectual property rights, tax audits, assessments and settlements, pricing matters, sales and promotional practices, product liability, investigations and other matters; our ability to finance our operations and business initiatives and obtain funding for such activities; adverse safety events involving our marketed or pipeline products, generic or biosimilar versions of our marketed products or any other products from the same class as one of our products; the current and potential impacts of geopolitical tensions, acts of war and other large-scale crises, including impacts to our operations, sales and the possible disruptions or delay in our plans to conduct clinical trial activities in areas of geopolitical tension, including regions affected by Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the military conflict in the Middle East; the direct and indirect impact of global health outbreaks on our business and operations, including sales, expense, reserves and allowances, the supply chain, manufacturing, research and development costs, clinical trials and employees; our use of information systems and data and the potential impacts of any breakdowns, invasions, corruptions, destructions and/or breaches of such systems or those of our business partners; T able of Contents the potential impact of healthcare reform in the U.S., including the IRA, and measures being taken worldwide designed to reduce healthcare costs and limit the overall level of government expenditures, including the impact of pricing actions and reduced reimbursement for our products; our manufacturing capacity, use of third-party contract manufacturing organizations, plans and timing relating to changes in our manufacturing capabilities, activities in new or existing manufacturing facilities and the expected timeline for the gene therapy manufacturing facility in RTP, North Carolina to be operational; the impact of the continued uncertainty of the credit and economic conditions in certain countries and our collection of accounts receivable in such countries; lease commitments, purchase obligations and the timing and satisfaction of other contractual obligations; and the impact of new laws (including tax), regulatory requirements, judicial decisions and accounting standards. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those that are described in