Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments 7 Item 2. Properties 7 Item 3. Legal proceedings 8 Item 4. Mine safety disclosures 8 PART II Item 5. Market for registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 9 Item 6. Selected financial data 9 Item 7. Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 9 Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 9 Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data 9 Item 9. Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 9 Item 9A. Controls and procedures 9 Item 9B. Other information 10 PART III Item 10. Directors, executive officers and corporate governance 11 Item 11. Executive compensation 13 Item 12. Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 13 Item 13. Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 13 Item 14. Principal accounting fees and services 13 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, financial statement schedules 14 Item 16. Form 10-K summary 14 Index to exhibits 15 Signatures 24 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Description of Business The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global company headquartered in New York, New York, with $37.1 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration and $1.9 trillion in assets under management as of Dec. 31, 2019 . With its subsidiaries, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784. We divide our businesses into two business segments, Investment Services and Investment Management. We also have an Other segment, which includes the leasing portfolio, corporate treasury activities (including our securities portfolio), derivatives and other trading activity, corporate and bank-owned life insurance, renewable energy investments and business exits. For a further discussion of BNY Mellon s lines of business, products and services, see the Overview, Summary of financial highlights, Fee and other revenue, Review of businesses and International operations sections in the MD A section in the Annual Report and Notes 24 and 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, of which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See the Available Information section on page 1 of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon. Our two principal U.S. banking subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. Our two principal U.S. banking subsidiaries are: The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state-chartered bank, which houses our Investment Services businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Clearance and Collateral Management, as well as the bank-advised business of Asset Management; and BNY Mellon, National Association ( BNY Mellon, N.A. ), a national bank, which houses our Wealth Management business. We have four other U.S. bank and/or trust company subsidiaries concentrating on trust products and services across the United States: The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. Most of our asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon. Each of our bank and trust company subsidiaries is subject to regulation by the applicable bank regulatory authority. The deposits of our U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the extent provided by law. BNY Mellon s banking subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulatory authorities in addition to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve ). The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV ( BNY Mellon SA/NV ) is the main banking subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon in continental Europe. It is authorized and regulated as a credit institution by the National Bank of Belgium and is also supervised by the European Central Bank. BNY Mellon SA/NV has its principal office in Brussels and branches in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Dublin, Ireland; Frankfurt, Germany; London, England; the City of Luxembourg, Luxembourg; Milan, Italy; and Paris, France. BNY Mellon SA/NV s activities are in the Investment Services segment of BNY Mellon with a focus on global custody, asset servicing and collateral management. For additional discussion, see the MD A Supervision and Regulation section in the Annual Report. Primary Subsidiaries Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2019 . BNY Mellon 5 Supervision and Regulation Information on the supervision and regulation of BNY Mellon can be found in the MD A Supervision and Regulation section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Competition BNY Mellon is subject to competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Investment Services business competes with domestic and international financial services firms that offer custody services, corporate trust services, clearing services, collateral management services, credit services, securities brokerage, foreign exchange services, derivatives, depositary receipt services and cash management services and related products, as well as a wide range of technology service providers, such as financial services data processing firms. Our Investment Management business competes with domestic and international asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms and insurance companies, as well as a wide range of technology service providers. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, transaction execution, capital or access to capital, quality and range of products and services offered, technological innovation and expertise, price, reputation, rates, lending limits and customer convenience. Competition in the financial services industry continues to be intense and we may be at a competitive disadvantage to institutions that are not similarly subject to extensive regulation, broad-based financial services firms that have the ability to offer a wider range of products and competitors whose compensatory arrangements are not subject to the same regulatory and supervisory frameworks that apply to us. As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. For additional discussion regarding competition, see MD A Risk Factors - We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and MD A Risk Factors - Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain employees in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Employees At Dec. 31, 2019 , BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 48,400 full-time employees. Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the Net interest revenue and Supplemental Information (unaudited) Rate/volume analysis sections in the MD A and in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. II. Securities Portfolio A. Book Value of Securities; B. Maturity Distribution and Yields of Securities; and C. Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Securities Where Issuer Exceeds 10% of Stockholders Equity Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the Net interest revenue and Consolidated balance sheet review Securities sections in the MD A and in Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. III. Loan Portfolio A. Types of Loans; and B. Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the Consolidated balance sheet review Loans section in the MD A and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated 6 BNY Mellon Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. C. Risk Elements; and D. Other Interest-bearing Assets Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the Consolidated balance sheet review Loans and Nonperforming assets and International operations Country risk exposure and Cross-border outstandings sections in the MD A and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the Critical accounting estimates Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments section in the MD A , which portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below. When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the Consolidated balance sheet review Asset quality and allowance for credit losses section in the MD A , as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference. Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the Risk Management Credit risk and Critical accounting estimates sections in the MD A and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. V. Deposits Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the Net interest revenue and Consolidated balance sheet review Deposits sections in the MD A and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. VI. Return on Equity and Assets Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the Financial Summary section, which is incorporated herein by reference. VII. Short-Term Borrowings Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the Consolidated balance sheet review Short-term borrowings section in the MD A , which portion is incorporated herein by reference.