Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments 6 Item 2. Properties 6 Item 3. Legal proceedings 7 Item 4. Mine safety disclosures 7 PART II Item 5. Market for registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 8 Item 6. [Reserved] 8 Item 7. Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 8 Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 8 Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data 8 Item 9. Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 8 Item 9A. Controls and procedures 8 Item 9B. Other information 9 Item 9C. Disclosure regarding foreign jurisdictions that prevent inspections 9 PART III Item 10. Directors, executive officers and corporate governance 10 Item 11. Executive compensation 12 Item 12. Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 12 Item 13. Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 12 Item 14. Principal accountant fees and services 12 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and financial statement schedules 13 Item 16. Form 10-K summary 13 Index to exhibits 14 Signatures 22 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Description of Business The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global company headquartered in New York, New York, with $46.7 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration and $2.4 trillion in assets under management as of Dec. 31, 2021. With its subsidiaries, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784. We previously divided our businesses into two business segments, Investment Services and Investment and Wealth Management. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we disaggregated our Investment Services business segment into two new business segments, Securities Services and Market and Wealth Services. Our Investment and Wealth Management business segment was not impacted by this resegmentation. We also have an Other segment, which includes the leasing portfolio, corporate treasury activities (including our securities portfolio), derivatives and other trading activity, corporate and bank-owned life insurance, renewable energy and other corporate investments and certain business exits. For a further discussion of BNY Mellon s lines of business, products and services, see the Overview, Summary of financial highlights, Fee and other revenue, Review of business segments and International operations sections in the MD A section in the Annual Report and Notes 24 and 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, of which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See the Available Information section on page 1 of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon. Our two principal U.S. banking subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. Our two principal U.S. banking subsidiaries are: The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state-chartered bank, which houses our Securities Services businesses, including Asset Servicing and Issuer Services and certain Market and Wealth Services businesses, including Treasury Services and Clearance and Collateral Management, as well as the bank-advised business of Investment Management; and BNY Mellon, National Association ( BNY Mellon, N.A. ), a national bank, which houses our Wealth Management business and certain activities of our Pershing businesses. We have four other U.S. bank and/or trust company subsidiaries concentrating on trust products and services across the United States: The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. Most of our Investment Management business and Pershing businesses are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon. Each of our bank and trust company subsidiaries is subject to regulation by the applicable bank regulatory authority. The deposits of our U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the extent provided by law. BNY Mellon s banking subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulatory authorities in addition to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve ). The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV ( BNY Mellon SA/NV ) is the main banking subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon in continental Europe. It is authorized and regulated as a credit institution by the European Central Bank and the National Bank of Belgium under the Single Supervisory Mechanism and is also supervised by the Belgian Financial Services and Markets Authority for conduct of business rules. BNY Mellon SA/NV has its principal office in Brussels and branches in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Copenhagen, Denmark; Dublin, Ireland; Frankfurt, Germany; the City of Luxembourg, Luxembourg; Madrid, Spain; Milan, Italy; and Paris, France. BNY Mellon SA/NV s activities are in the Securities Services and Market and Wealth Services segments of BNY Mellon with a focus on global custody, asset servicing and collateral management. For additional discussion, see the MD A Supervision and Regulation section in the Annual Report. BNY Mellon 5 Primary Subsidiaries Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2021. Human Capital Management Information on the BNY Mellon s human capital management can be found in the MD A Human capital section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Supervision and Regulation Information on the supervision and regulation of BNY Mellon can be found in the MD A Supervision and Regulation section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Competition BNY Mellon is subject to competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Securities Services and Market and Wealth Services businesses compete with domestic and international financial services firms that offer custody services, corporate trust services, clearing services, collateral management services, credit services, securities brokerage, foreign exchange services, derivatives, depositary receipt services and integrated cash management solutions and related products, as well as a wide range of technology service providers, such as financial services data processing firms. Our Investment and Wealth Management business competes with domestic and international investment management and wealth management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms and insurance companies, as well as a wide range of technology service providers. Competition in the financial services industry continues to be intense. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service and convenience, transaction execution, capital or access to capital, quality and range of products and services offered, performance, technological innovation and expertise, price, reputation and lending limits. Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. Our competitive position may be affected by institutions that are not similarly subject to extensive regulation, and as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. For additional discussion regarding competition, see MD A Risk Factors Strategic Risk We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and MD A Risk Factors Operational Risk Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.