Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II 36 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6. [Reserved] 38 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 61 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 61 Item 9B. Other Information 64 Item 9 C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 64 PART III 64 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 64 Item 11. Executive Compensation 64 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 64 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 64 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV 64 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 64 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 68 Signatures 69 Consolidated Financial Statements 71 Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect our views regarding current expectations and projections about future events and conditions and are based on currently available information. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including the Risk Factors identified in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report; therefore, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed, implied, or forecast in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and expectations and similar expressions, including "may," "will," "should," "could," "aims," "seeks," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," and "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission"), particularly our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. PART I Item 1. Business The COVID-19 pandemic has continued to profoundly impact our business, employees, partners, consumers, communities, and stockholders. We were encouraged to see the distribution of vaccines and the development of other medical interventions to COVID-19 during 2021, but the emergence of new variants continues to make the shape and timing of a recovery uncertain. We remain confident that over time there will be a strong recovery for travel demand globally, and are focused on executing on our key strategic priorities so we emerge from this period in a position of strength. As we continue our efforts to make our brands the most trusted and convenient platforms for consumers and partners, we have taken important actions in 2021 including: expanding and enhancing our flight product at Booking.com, which is a key component of our Connected Trip vision; entering into an agreement to acquire Etraveli Group in November and completing our acquisition of Getaroom in December; increasing our internal collaboration efforts; continuing to build out our payments platform and payments capabilities across the Company; and launching new product features to make travel more sustainable and inclusive. Our mission to make it easier for everyone to experience the world remains unchanged. We seek to empower people to cut through travel barriers, such as money, time, language, and overwhelming options, so they can use our services to easily and confidently get where they want to go, stay where they want to stay, dine where they want to dine, pay how they want to pay, and experience what they want to experience. We connect consumers wishing to make travel reservations with travel service providers around the world through our online platforms, which allow consumers to: book a broad array of accommodations (including hotels, motels, resorts, homes, apartments, bed and breakfasts, hostels, and other alternative and traditional accommodations properties) and a flight to their destination; make a car rental reservation or arrange for an airport taxi; make a dinner reservation; or book a vacation package, tour, activity, or cruise. Consumers can also use our meta-search services to easily compare travel reservation information, such as flight, hotel, and rental car reservations, from hundreds of online travel platforms at once. In addition, we offer other services to consumers and partners, such as travel-related insurance products and restaurant management services to restaurants. We offer these services through six primary consumer-facing brands: Booking.com, Priceline, agoda, Rentalcars.com, KAYAK, and OpenTable. We continue to increase the collaboration, cooperation, and interdependency among our brands to provide consumers with the most comprehensive services and maximize the benefits of our scale. For example, when a traveler books an accommodation through Booking.com, we may offer relevant rental car or airport transfer transportation services 1 supported by our Rentalcars.com brand, and hotel reservations available through Booking.com are also generally available through agoda and Priceline. The following table shows the key services we offer to consumers: The results of our business outside of the U.S. consist of the results of Booking.com, agoda, and Rentalcars.com in their entirety, and the parts of the KAYAK and OpenTable businesses located outside the U.S. This classification is independent of where the consumer resides, where the consumer is physically located while using our services or the location of the travel service provider or restaurant. For example, a reservation made through Booking.com (which is domiciled in the Netherlands) at a hotel in New York by a consumer in the United States is part of the results of our businesses outside of the U.S. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the revenues from our businesses outside of the U.S. (the substantial majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately 87% of our consolidated revenues. We earn a significant majority of our revenues from facilitating accommodation reservations. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more geographic information. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "BKNG." We refer to our company and all of our subsidiaries and brands collectively as "Booking Holdings," the "Company," "we," "our," or "us." Our Business Model We derive substantially all of our revenues from providing online travel reservation services, which facilitate online travel purchases between travel service providers (which we generally refer to as "partners") and travelers (which we generally refer to as "consumers"). We also earn revenues from advertising services, restaurant reservations, and various other services, such as travel-related insurance products and restaurant management services for restaurants. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we had revenues of $11.0 billion, which we classify as "agency" revenues, "merchant" revenues, and "advertising and other" revenues. Agency revenues are derived from travel-related transactions where we do not facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided. Agency revenues consist almost entirely of travel reservation commissions from our accommodation, rental car, and airline reservation services. We invoice the travel service providers for our commissions after travel is completed. Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we facilitate payments from travelers for the services provided, generally at the time of booking. Merchant revenues include travel reservation commissions and transaction net revenues (i.e., the amount charged to travelers less the amount owed to travel service providers); credit card processing rebates and customer processing fees; and ancillary fees, including travel-related insurance revenues. Advertising and other revenues are derived primarily from (a) revenues earned by KAYAK for sending referrals to online travel companies ("OTCs") and travel service providers and for advertising placements on its platforms and (b) revenues earned by OpenTable for its restaurant reservation services and subscription fees for restaurant management services. 2 Our Strategy We aim to demonstrate global leadership in online travel and restaurant reservation and related services by: providing consumers with the most comprehensive choices and prices at any time, in any place, on any device; making it easy for people to find, book, pay for, and experience their travel desires; offering platforms, tools, and insights to our business partners to help them be successful; and operating our business sustainably and supporting sustainable travel choices by our consumers and partners. We focus on relentless innovation and execution and a commitment to serve both consumers and partners with unmatched service and best-in-class technology. Although new variants of COVID-19 continue to make the shape and timing of recovery uncertain, we believe the global online travel and dining industries will gradually return to pre-pandemic levels and consumer purchasing will continue to shift from traditional offline to online channels. As travel demand returns, we expect to benefit from this online growth by expanding our service offerings and markets. In particular, we seek to (a) leverage technology to provide consumers with the best experience, (b) partner with travel service providers and restaurants to our mutual benefit, (c) operate multiple brands that collaborate with each other, and (d) invest in profitable and sustainable growth. Provide the best consumer experience. Offering consumers an outstanding online experience is essential to our success. We focus on providing consumers with: (a) intuitive, easy-to-use online travel and restaurant reservation and search services; (b) a comprehensive selection of accommodations, other travel offerings, restaurants and payment options; (c) informative and useful content, such as pictures, accommodation and restaurant details, reviews, and sustainability information; and (d) excellent customer service. Our goal is to make travel easy, frictionless, and personal and to offer consumers the most value, the most trusted brands, the most personalized experience, and the most extensive, varied, and comprehensive travel service selection in every geography. We believe that our continued work to build out our payments capabilities across the Company helps to remove some of the friction in the booking process and enables us to offer additional value for travelers. Further, we endeavor to provide excellent customer service in a variety of ways, including through call centers and online platforms and the use of chatbots and other technologies, so that consumers can be confident that booking reservations through us will be a positive experience. Although the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic persisted in 2021, we continue to innovate and invest in our services in order to emerge from the pandemic in a strong position to meet the needs of consumers and partners. We seek to grow our business through innovation by providing a best-in-class user experience with intuitive, easy-to-use online platforms (i.e., websites and mobile apps) and building stronger relationships with our customers and partners. As a result, we continue to execute against our long-term strategy to build a seamless offering of multiple elements of travel, which we refer to as the "Connected Trip." We believe that through innovation and the utilization of emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, the Connected Trip will simplify and improve all aspects of the travel experience, including discovery, planning, booking, paying, coordinating itineraries among travel service providers, and automatic rescheduling. For example, if a traveler s flight is delayed, we envision that ultimately the Connected Trip will not only alert the traveler, but also automatically arrange for a late arrival at the hotel, change a dinner reservation and alert companion diners, reschedule the car arranged for airport transfer, find a later connecting flight, offer one-click rebooking and payment for any other changes, and manage other impacts from the delayed flight. We believe offering travelers a compelling flight product alongside our other travel products is a key component of our Connected Trip vision. In 2021, we made progress in building out a flight offering at Booking.com, including expanding into 34 countries by the end of the year. We expect that these developments will benefit our travelers, travel service providers, and restaurant partners, as well as provide a compelling and differentiated service offering that will drive enhanced loyalty and frequency over time. Partner with travel service providers and restaurants. We aim to establish mutually beneficial relationships with travel service providers and restaurants around the world. We believe that travel service providers and restaurants benefit from participating in our services by increasing their distribution channels, demand, profile and reputation, and inventory utilization in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Travel service providers and restaurants benefit from our trusted brands and marketing efforts, expertise in offering an excellent consumer experience, and ability to offer their inventory in markets and to consumers that they may otherwise be unable or unlikely to reach, for instance due to language or payments services we are able to offer on their behalf. Operate multiple brands. We operate multiple brands, which allows us to offer our services in ways that appeal to different consumers, pursue distinct marketing and business strategies, encourage experimentation and 3 innovation, provide numerous service offerings, and focus on specific markets or geographies. At the same time, we continue to increase the collaboration, cooperation, and interdependency among our brands in our efforts to provide consumers with the most comprehensive and value-oriented services. We invest resources to support organic growth by all our brands, whether through increased marketing, geographic expansion, technological innovation, or increased access to accommodations, flights, rental cars, restaurants, or other services. Invest in profitable and sustainable growth. We seek to offer online services that meet the needs and the expectations of consumers, travel service providers, and restaurants and that we believe will result in mutual long-term profitability and growth. We intend to accomplish this through continuous investment and innovation, growing our businesses in new and current markets, expanding our services, and ensuring that we provide an appealing, intuitive, and easy-to-use consumer experience. We have made significant investments in people, technology, marketing, and expanded, new, or additional services, such as improving the selection of our extensive collection of accommodations including homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay, expanded flight and ground transportation offerings, payments, and other offerings. In 2021, we continued to scale our flight offerings to more markets, and offer payments solutions to more customers and partners. We continue to seek to maximize the benefits of our scale by sharing resources and technological innovations among our brands and co-developing new services. We also regularly evaluate, and may pursue and consummate, potential strategic acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures, or investments, whether to expand our businesses into complementary areas, expand our current businesses, acquire innovative technology, or for other reasons. For instance, in December 2021, we completed the acquisition of Getaroom, a business-to-business distributor of hotel rooms, which in conjunction with our Priceline business we expect to increase value for both hotel and affiliate partners, and in November 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire European-based flights booking provider Etraveli Group. Service Offerings Booking.com and Rentalcars.com. Booking.com is the world's leading brand for booking online accommodation reservations, based on room nights booked, with operations worldwide and headquarters in the Netherlands. A t December 31, 2021, Booking.com offered accommodation reservation services for approximately 2.4 million properties in over 220 countries and territories and in over 40 languages, consisting of over 400,000 hotels, motels, and resorts and over 1.9 million homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay. In 2021, Booking.com significantly expanded its flight offering to 34 markets and in-destination tours and activities to more than 840 cities around the world. Rentalcars.com operates as part of Booking.com and offers online rental car reservation services in over 48,800 locations throughout the world, with customer support in over 40 languages. Booking.com and Rentalcars.com also offer pre-booked taxi and black car services at over 1,450 airports throughout the world. Priceline. Priceline is a leader in the discount travel reservation business, offering online travel reservation services primarily in North America, with headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut. Priceline offers consumers hotel, flight, and rental car reservation services, as well as vacation packages, cruises, and hotel distribution services for partners and affiliates. Agoda. Agoda is a leading online accommodation reservation service catering primarily to consumers in the Asia-Pacific region, with headquarters in Singapore and operations in Bangkok, Thailand, and elsewhere. Agoda also offers flight, ground transportation, and activities reservation services. KAYAK. KAYAK, headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, provides an online price comparison service (often referred to as "meta-search") that allows consumers to easily search and compare travel itineraries and prices, including airline ticket, accommodation reservation, and rental car reservation information, from hundreds of online travel platforms at once. KAYAK offers its service s in over 60 countries, with its largest market in the United States, through various websites including momondo, Cheapflights, and HotelsCombi ned. OpenTable. OpenTable is a leading brand for booking online restaurant reservations. With significant operations in San Francisco, California, OpenTable provides online restaurant reservation services to consumers and reservation management services to restaurants, primarily in the United States. 4 Marketing and Brand Awareness We have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through marketing and promotional campaigns, particularly strategic use of performance marketing spend, which can be variable based on travel demand, and which saw increased volatility during the COVID-19 pandemic. We have invested considerable resources in establishing and maintaining our brands, and intend to continue to invest resources in marketing and other brand building to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands. Competition We compete globally with both online and traditional travel and restaurant reservation and related services. The markets for the services we offer are intensely competitive, constantly evolving, and subject to rapid change, and current and new competitors can launch new services at a relatively low cost. Some of our current and potential competitors, such as Google, Apple, Alibaba, Tencent, Amazon, and Facebook, have significantly more customers or users, consumer data, and financial and other resources than we do, and may be able to leverage other aspects of their businesses (e.g., search or mobile device businesses) to enable them to compete more effectively with us. For example, Google has entered various aspects of the online travel market and has grown rapidly in this area, including by offering a flight meta-search product ("Google Flights"), a hotel meta-search product ("Google Hotel Ads"), its "Book on Google" reservation functionality, Google Travel, a planning tool that aggregates its flight, hotel, and packages products in one website, and by integrating its hotel meta-search products and restaurant information and reservation products into its Google Maps app. We currently, or may in the future, compete with a variety of companies, including: online travel or restaurant reservation services and meta-search services; large online search, social networking, and marketplace companies; travel service providers such as accommodation providers, rental car or car- or ride-sharing companies, and airlines, and other travel service providers, many of which have their own branded online platforms to which they drive business; traditional travel agencies, travel management companies, wholesalers, and tour operators; and companies offering technology services and software solutions to travel service providers. For more information regarding current and potential competitors and the competitive nature of the markets in which we operate, please see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance." in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Government Regulation Our ability to provide our services and any future services is affected by legal regulations of national and local governments and regulatory authorities around the world, many of which are evolving and subject to new or revised interpretations. Examples of these laws and regulations, which vary and sometimes conflict, include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the proposed Digital Services Act and Digital Markets Act in the European Union, and local laws or regulations relating to corrupt payments to governmental officials or third parties, data privacy requirements, labor relations, non-discrimination, human rights, anti-human trafficking, taxes, antitrust or competition laws, sanctioned countries or sanctioned persons, and consumer protection laws. Violations could result in fines, penalties, and/or criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, and/or prohibitions on how we conduct or propose to conduct our business. They could also result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our services in one or more countries, delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and materially damage our reputation, brands, global expansion efforts, ability to attract and retain employees and business partners, business, and operating results. Even if we comply with these laws and regulations, doing business in certain jurisdictions or violations of these laws and regulations by the accommodations, restaurants, travel service providers, or other parties with which we conduct business runs the risk of harming our reputation and our brands, which could adversely affect our results of operations or stock price. Regulations that impact our business or our industry include: Data Protection and Privacy : Regulatory and legislative activity in the areas of privacy, data protection, and information and cyber security governing parts of our business continues to increase worldwide. We have established and continue to maintain policies and a global governance framework to comply with laws that apply to our business, 5 meet evolving stakeholder expectations, and support business innovation and growth. In the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation (the "GDPR") imposes significant compliance obligations and costs. In the United States, the California Consumer Privacy Act (the "CCPA") and the California Privacy Rights Act ("CPRA"), set to become operative in January 2023, impose new privacy requirements and rights for consumers in California that will result in additional compliance complexity, risks, and costs. Some data protection and privacy laws afford consumers a private right of action against companies like ours for certain statutory violations. In many cases, data protection and privacy laws restrict the transfers of information among our subsidiaries, including employee information. Competition, Consumer Protection and Online Commerce : Competition and consumer protection laws and regulations around the world impact aspects of our business including contractual parity arrangements with accommodation providers and the manner in which we display information on our platform. There is significant legislative and public focus on the technology industry, especially as technology companies become larger, including in relation to the regulation of digital platforms. The European Commission s proposed Digital Markets Act and Digital Services Act legislation is expected to give regulators more instruments to investigate digital businesses and impose new rules on certain digital platforms if they are determined to be "gatekeepers." The proposed legislation is not final and it is not known what the laws will look like in their final forms. If regulators were to presume that we are a gatekeeper under the Digital Markets Act as currently proposed and we are not successful in rebutting that presumption, we would be subject to additional rules and regulations not applicable to all our competitors and our business could be harmed. Regulation of the Travel Industr y: Our business could be impacted by travel-related regulations such as those imposed by local jurisdictions to regulate the use of alternative accommodations and address the issue of "overtourism." As our business evolves, in particular as we offer linked travel arrangements or travel packages as a part of the Connected Trip, we expect to become subject to existing and new regulations. For example, some parts of our business are already subject to certain requirements of the EU Package Travel Directive (the "Package Directive"), and as our offerings continue to diversify and expand, we may become subject to additional requirements of the Package Directive. Payment s: As we expand our payments services to consumers and business partners, we expect to become subject to additional regulations, such as financial services regulations and license requirements, which will result in increased compliance costs and complexities, including those associated with the implementation of new or more stringent internal controls. We are also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under our contracts with payment card processors, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, compliance with which is complex and costly. For further discussion of these regulations and how other global regulations may impact our business, see Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors - " Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, and Reputational Risks ." Operations and Technology Our business is supported by multiple systems and platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance, reliability, redundancy, and security. These systems and platforms are generally independent among our brands, though some have become more connected or shared over time. Our software systems, platforms, and architecture use a variety of widely-used software tools and database systems. We are modernizing our technology by building new applications with modern development tools and application programming interfaces and moving certain systems and data to public cloud infrastructure. These internal systems and platforms are designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate. These include large global systems, such as accommodation, flight, and rental car reservation systems, and financial service providers, as well as individual accommodation service providers, such as independent hotels. Our applications utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate. The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our worldwide operations are primarily hosted in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany, Singapore, Hong Kong, and four locations in the United States, each of which provides network connectivity, networking infrastructure, and 24-hour monitoring and engineering support typical of hosted data centers. All data center facilities have a continuous power supply system, generators, redundant servers, and multiple back-up systems. Although we take steps to mitigate the effects of any loss or reduction in service at one of our hosting facilities, if a hosting facility were inaccessible or otherwise experienced a disruption in service for any reason, we could experience a disruption to our services, loss of transactions and revenue, and consumer complaints. We provide customer service through a mix of in-house call centers and outsourced third-party services. 6 Intellectual Property Over time and through acquisitions, we have assembled a portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets covering our services. We 