Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 45 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 46 Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) 49 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 50 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 51 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 52 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 53 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 95 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 95 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 96 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 100 Signatures 101 Baker Hughes Company 2021 Form 10-K | i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Baker Hughes Company ("Baker Hughes", "the Company", "we", "us", or "our") is an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. We conduct business in more than 120 countries. The Company was formed in July 2017 as the result of a combination between Baker Hughes Incorporated ("BHI") and the oil and gas business ("GE O G") of General Electric Company ("GE") ("the Transactions"). As a result of the Transactions, substantially all of the business of GE O G and of BHI was transferred to a subsidiary of the Company, Baker Hughes Holdings LLC ("BHH LLC"). In 2020, GE launched a program to fully divest of its ownership in Baker Hughes over approximately three years. As of December 31, 2021, GE's economic interest in BHH LLC was 11.4%. On December 7, 2021, the Company transferred the listing of its Class A common stock from the New York Stock Exchange to the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. OUR VISION STRATEGY With the breadth of our portfolio, leading technology, and unique partnership models, we are positioned to deliver outcome-based solutions across the industry. By integrating health, safety environment ("HSE") into everything we do, we protect our people, our customers, and the environment. The oil and gas macroeconomic environment continues to be dynamic. We believe the world s reliance on hydrocarbons will not disappear, and oil and gas will continue to remain relevant in meeting global energy demand. At the same time, the transition to new energy sources is accelerating. We believe the industry is going through a transformation that requires a change in how we work. Irrespective of commodity prices, our customers are focused on reducing both capital and operating expenditures. Our customers expect new models and solutions to deliver sustainable productivity improvements and leverage economies of scale, with a lower carbon footprint. That is why our strategy is focused on improving our core competitiveness and delivering higher-productivity solutions today, while positioning for the energy transition. Our strategy is based on three key pillars: Transform the core : We are transforming our current business to improve margins and cash flow, which we are achieving through portfolio rationalization, cost improvements, and new business models. Invest for growth: We are driving organic and inorganic growth in high potential segments where we have a strong position, including industrial power and processes, industrial asset management, non-metallics, and chemicals. Position for new energy frontiers: We are making strategic investments to drive lower carbon emissions in the energy and industrial sectors, including hydrogen, geothermal, carbon capture, utilization and storage ("CCUS"), and energy storage. We expect to benefit from our strategy in the following ways: Scope and scale: We have global presence and a broad, diversified portfolio. Our products, services, and expertise serve the upstream, midstream/liquefied natural gas ("LNG") and downstream sectors of the oil and gas industry, as well as broader chemical and industrial segments. We deliver through our four product companies (also referred to as "operating segments"): Oilfield Services; Oilfield Equipment; Turbomachinery Process Solutions; and Digital Solutions as discussed below under "Products and Services," and each are among the top four providers for the majority of the product lines in the markets they serve. Technology: Our culture is built on a heritage of innovation and invention in research and development, with complementary capabilities. Technology remains a differentiator for us, and a key enabler to drive the efficiency and productivity gains our customers need. We also have a range of technologies that support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. We remain committed to investing in our products and services to maintain our leadership position across our offerings, including $492 million research and development spend and being granted more than 2,500 patents worldwide in 2021. Baker Hughes Company 2021 Form 10-K | 1 Digital capabilities: We expect to benefit from the emerging demand for artificial intelligence ("AI") based solutions as part of our customers digital transformation initiatives. Launched in 2019, our partnership with C3.ai, Inc. ("C3 AI") is enabling us to deliver AI that is faster, easier, and more scalable to drive outcomes for our customers. We are delivering existing technology to oil and gas customers and collaborating on new AI applications specific for oil and gas outcomes. We are also deploying C3 AI applications internally to improve operational efficiencies, specifically for inventory optimization. In addition, we have continued to invest in our industrial asset management capabilities, including the acquisition of ARMS Reliability and an investment in Augury, a machine health technology company, to support our customers digital transformation programs across industrial end markets. Energy transition solutions: We are positioned to support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint with a range of emissions-reduction products and services. This includes more efficient power generation and compression technology that reduces carbon emissions, including CCUS, as well as hydrogen technologies. We also have a range of inspection and sensor technologies that can monitor and help reduce flaring and emissions. In 2021, we made strategic investments in emerging energy technologies to advance CCUS and hydrogen with companies such as Ekona Power, Electrochaea, and the Hy24 Hydrogen Fund; and entered into new partnerships with Shell, Air Products, and Bloom Energy, among others. We also continue to expand our emissions management capabilities, helping customers to detect and quantify emissions more efficiently and accurately, and complementing our existing methane detection and quantification solutions available today. In 2021, we took additional steps to accelerate our strategy and to view our Company in two broad business areas: Oilfield Services Equipment and Industrial Energy Technology. This approach aims to better position Baker Hughes for today and in the coming years. We believe that focusing on two major business areas with close alignment will enhance our flexibility, improve commercial and operational execution, and provide long-term optionality as the energy markets evolve. On the Oilfield Services Equipment ("OFSE") side of the Company, we have a technology-leading global enterprise with core strengths in drilling services, high-end completion tools, flexible pipe, artificial lift, and production and downstream chemicals. OFSE is poised to benefit from cyclical growth in the coming years as we believe that we are in the early stages of a broad based, multi-year recovery that will be characterized by longer term investments into the core OPEC+ countries. The Industrial Energy Technology ("IET") encompasses a more closely integrated Turbomachinery Process Solutions and Digital Solutions. Both businesses have compelling portfolios that are beginning to see significant secular growth opportunities, particularly in areas such as hydrogen and CCUS. With core competencies across a number of offerings like power generation, compression, and condition monitoring, as well as a growing presence in flow control and industrial asset management, we have a strong foundation on which to build an even more comprehensive presence in the broad industrial energy technology markets. More recently, we created the Climate Technology Solutions ("CTS") and the Industrial Asset Management ("IAM") groups to further support the strategy of the Company. CTS will include CCUS, hydrogen, emissions management, and clean and integrated power solutions. IAM will bring together key digital capabilities, software, and hardware from across the Company to help customers increase efficiencies, improve performance, and reduce emissions for their energy and industrial assets. We believe the creation of these two groups will help accelerate the speed of commercial development for solutions-based business models across our new energy and industrial asset management offerings. These actions, including the steps taken to view our Company in two broad areas, OFSE and IET, will not change our current segment reporting structure. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We believe we have an important role to play in society as an industry leader and partner. We view environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") as a key lever to transform the performance of our Company and our industry. In January 2019, we made a commitment to reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions from our operations by 50% by 2030, achieving net zero emissions by 2050. In 2020, we reset our carbon emissions reduction base year from 2012 to 2019 to account for corporate changes, new acquisitions, divestitures, and to reflect changes in methodology in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We are investing in our portfolio of advanced technologies to assist customers with reducing their carbon footprint. Baker Hughes Company 2021 Form 10-K | 2 We continue to make progress on emissions reductions. We reported in our 2020 Corporate Responsibility report a 15% reduction in operating greenhouse gas emissions over the prior year. This reduction was partially due to lower activity during the COVID-19 pandemic, but also due to efficiency and emissions reduction efforts across our global business, including facility energy efficiency and operational energy efficiency, uptake of renewable and zero-carbon energy, and emissions reduction in our vehicle fleets. We will continue to employ a broad range of emissions reduction initiatives across manufacturing, supply chain, logistics, energy sourcing and generation. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our four product companies, or operating segments, are organized based on the nature of our markets and customers and consist of similar products and services. We sell to our customers through direct and indirect channels. Our primary sales channel is through our direct sales force, which has a strong regional focus with local teams close to the customer, who are able to draw support from centers of excellence in each of our major product lines. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets and the competitive environment varies by product line. See discussion below by segment. Oilfield Services The Oilfield Services ("OFS") segment designs and manufactures products and provides services for onshore and offshore oil and gas operations across the lifecycle of a well, including exploration, drilling, evaluation, completion, production, intervention, and abandonment. OFS products and services include drill bits, drilling services including directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling, and logging-while-drilling, drilling fluids, wireline services, completions including tools, systems, and fluids, pressure pumping, well intervention, artificial lift systems, oilfield and industrial chemicals, and integrated well services. These offerings are enabled and enhanced by reservoir technical services and digital technologies that include modeling, remote capabilities, and automation. OFS evaluation capabilities and drilling technologies provide greater understanding of the subsurface to enable smoother, faster drilling and precise wellbore placement, leading to improved recovery and project economics. With broad completions portfolio, drawing from a wide range of artificial lift technologies, production chemicals, and production optimization software, OFS can help maximize production while simultaneously lowering production costs. OFS also provides integrated well services to plan and execute projects ranging from well construction and production through well abandonment. OFS customers include the large integrated major and super-major oil and natural gas companies, U.S. and international independent oil and natural gas companies, and the national or state-owned oil companies as well as oilfield service companies. OFS believes that its principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product and service quality, efficiency, reliability and availability, HSE standards, technical proficiency, and price. OFS products and services are sold in highly competitive markets, and revenue and earnings are affected by changes in commodity prices, fluctuations in levels of drilling, workover and completion activity in major markets, general economic conditions, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, and governmental regulations. While OFS may have contracts that include multiple well projects and that may extend over a period of time ranging from two to four years, its services and products are generally provided on a well-by-well basis. Most contracts cover pricing of the products and services but do not necessarily establish an obligation to use OFS products and services. OFS competitors include Schlumberger, Halliburton, and ChampionX. Oilfield Equipment The Oilfield Equipment ("OFE") segment provides a broad portfolio of mission critical products and services that serve as the last line of defense during drilling and over the life of a field. These products and services are required to facilitate the safe and reliable control and flow of hydrocarbons from the wellhead to the production facilities. The OFE portfolio has solutions for the subsea, offshore surface and onshore operating environments. OFE designs and manufactures subsea and surface production systems and provides a full range of services related to onshore and offshore production operations. Baker Hughes Company 2021 Form 10-K | 3 OFE products and services include subsea production systems ("SPS"), flexible pipe systems for subsea flowlines, risers and onshore pipes, surface and subsea wellheads, surface pressure control solutions, subsea well intervention solutions, and related service solutions. OFE s subsea portfolio includes subsea trees, control systems, manifolds, connection systems, wellheads, specialty connectors and pipes for all environments, installation and decommissioning solutions, and related services for life-of-field solutions and well intervention. OFE also provides advanced offshore flexible pipe products including risers, flowlines, fluid transfer lines and subsea jumpers, for floating production facilities across a range of operating environments. In addition, OFE offers a full range of onshore and offshore wellhead products, flow-control equipment, valves, actuators, and related services. OFE also offers a range of comprehensive, worldwide services for installation, technical support, well access through subsea intervention systems, operating resources and tools, offshore products, and brownfield asset integrity solutions. OFE customers are oil and gas operators and engineering, procurement, and construction ("EPC") contractors seeking to undertake subsea and surface projects, mid-life upgrades and maintenance, well interventions and workover campaigns. OFE strives for a leadership position within the large-bore gas fields, deepwater and ultra-deepwater oil and gas fields, and fields with long tieback distances. Additionally, through Subsea Connect, OFE offers integrated solutions to our customers. OFE believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product and service quality, reliability and on time delivery, HSE standards, technical proficiency, availability of spare parts, and price. In the SPS product line, the primary competitors of OFE include Schlumberger, TechnipFMC, Aker Solutions ASA, and Dril-Quip Inc. In the offshore flexible pipe product line, main competitors include TechnipFMC and NOV Inc. Turbomachinery Process Solutions The Turbomachinery Process Solutions ("TPS") segment provides equipment and related services for mechanical-drive, compression, and power-generation applications across the energy and industrial market, including the on-and-offshore, LNG, pipeline and gas storage, refining, petrochemical, distributed gas, flow and process control, and industrial segments such as nuclear, marine, food and beverage, and utilities. TPS is a leader in designing, manufacturing, maintaining, and upgrading rotating equipment across the entire energy value chain. TPS products and services include drivers, driven equipment, flow control, and turnkey solutions. Drivers are comprised of aero-derivative gas turbines, heavy-duty gas turbines, small- to medium-sized industrial gas turbines, steam turbines, and hot gas and turbo expanders. TPS driven equipment consists of generators and reciprocating, centrifugal, zero emission, and subsea compressors. TPS flow portfolio includes pumps, valves, regulators, control systems, and other flow and process control technologies. As part of its turnkey solutions, TPS offers power generation and gas compression modules, waste heat/energy/pressure recovery, energy storage, modularized small and large liquefaction plants, carbon capture, and storage/use solutions. TPS also offers genuine spare parts, system upgrades, conversion solutions, digital advanced services and turnkey solutions to refurbish, rejuvenate, and improve the output from a single machine up to an entire plant. TPS value proposition is founded on its turbomachinery and flow control technology, a unique competence to integrate gas turbines and compressors in the most critical natural gas applications, best-in-class manufacturing and testing capabilities, reliable maintenance and service operations, and innovative real-time diagnostics and control systems, enabling condition-based maintenance and increasing overall productivity, availability, efficiency, and reliability for oil and gas and industrial assets. TPS differentiates itself from competitors with its expertise in technology and project management, local presence and partnerships, as well as the deep industry know-how of its teams to provide fully integrated equipment and services solutions with state-of-art technology from design and manufacture through to operations. TPS solutions enable customers to increase upstream oil and gas production, liquefy natural gas, compress gas for transport via pipelines, generate electricity, store gas and energy, refine oil and gas, and produce petrochemicals, while minimizing both operational and environmental risks in the most extreme service conditions and enhancing overall efficiency. TPS products are also used in new energy applications, including hydrogen, CCUS, and blended fuels. TPS customers are upstream, midstream and downstream, onshore and offshore, and small to large scale. Midstream and downstream customers include LNG plants, pipelines, storage facilities, refineries, and a wide range of industrial and EPC companies. As a supplier of turbomachinery equipment and solutions, TPS uses technology to help customers reduce their environmental impact by making their operations Baker Hughes Company 2021 Form 10-K | 4 more efficient and enhancing their productivity, reducing emissions through flaring, venting and fuel combustion, and introducing new technologies that improve their ability to reduce unwanted fugitive emissions. TPS believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product range (or power range measured in megawatts) coverage, efficiency, product reliability and availability, project execution and service capabilities, references, emissions, and price. Our primary equipment competitors in clude Siemens Energy, Solar (a Caterpillar company), MAN Energy Solutions, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and Elliot Group (an Ebara company). In the valves and pumps product line, competitors include Emerson, Flowserve, Metso:Outotec, Sulzer, and IMI. Our aftermarket equipment product line competes with independent service providers such as Masaood John Brown, EthosEnergy, Sulzer, MTU, Chromalloy, and Siemens Energy. Digital Solutions The Digital Solutions segment combines sophisticated hardware technologies with enterprise-class software products and analytics to connect industrial assets, providing customers with the data, safety and security needed to reliably and efficiently improve operations. DS products and services include condition monitoring, industrial controls, non-destructive technologies, measurement, sensing, and pipeline solutions. Condition monitoring technologies include the Bently Nevada and System 1 brands, providing rack-based vibration monitoring equipment and sensors primarily for power generation and oil and gas operations. The DS Waygate Technologies product line includes non-destructive testing technology, software, and services, including industrial radiography, ultrasonic sensors, testing machines and gauges, NDT film, and remote visual inspection. Through its acquisition of ARMS reliability and its investment and alliance with Augury, DS also provides integrated asset performance management offerings. The DS Process and Pipeline Services product line ("PPS") provides pre-commissioning and maintenance services to improve throughput and asset integrity for process facilities and pipelines while achieving the highest returns possible. The PPS product line also provides inline inspection solutions to support pipeline integrity and includes nitrogen, bolting, torqueing and leak detection services, as well as the world s largest fleet of air compressors to dry pipelines after hydrotesting. The DS Panametrics, Druck, and Reuter-Stokes product lines provide instrumentation and sensor-based technologies to better detect and analyze pressure, flow, gas, moisture, radiation, and related conditions. The DS Nexus Controls product line provides comprehensive, scalable industrial controls systems, safety systems, hardware, software cybersecurity solutions and services. DS helps companies monitor and optimize industrial assets while mitigating risk and boosting safety, by providing performance management, and condition and asset health monitoring. It also provides customers the technical capabilities to drive enterprise wide digital transformation of business processes and to focus on better production outcomes along the entire oil and gas value chain and adjacent industries, using sensors, services, and inspections to connect industrial assets to the industrial internet. Products and services are sold in a diversified, fragmented arena to a broad range of customers. DS believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product technology, service, quality, and reliability. DS competes across a wide range of industries, including oil and gas, power generation, aerospace, and light and heavy industrials. Although no single company competes directly with DS across all its product lines, various companies compete in one or more products. Competitors include Emerson, Honeywell Process Solutions, Olympus, Schneider Electric, Siemens, and ABB. CONTRACTS We conduct our business under various types of contracts in the upstream, midstream, and downstream segments, including fixed-fee or turnkey contracts, transactional agreements for products and services, and long-term aftermarket service agreements. We enjoy stable relationships with many of our customers based on long-term project contracts and master service agreements. Several of those contracts require us to commit to a fixed price based on the customer s technical specifications with little or no relief available due to changes in circumstances. In some cases, failure to deliver products or perform services within contractual commitments may lead to liquidated damages claims. We seek to mitigate these exposures through close collaboration with our customers. Baker Hughes Company 2021 Form 10-K | 5 We strive to negotiate the terms of our customer contracts consistent with what we consider to be industry best practices. Our customers typically indemnify us for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of their employees and often their contractors; the loss of or damage to their facility and equipment, and often that of their contractors; pollution originating from their equipment or facility; and all liabilities related to the well and subsurface operations, including loss or damage to the well or reservoir, loss of well control, fire, explosion, or any uncontrolled flow of oil or gas. Conversely, we typically indemnify our customers for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of our employees and often that of our subcontractors; the loss of or damage to our equipment; and surface pollution originating from our equipment while under our control. Where the above indemnities do not apply or are not consistent with industry best practices, we typically provide a capped indemnity for damages caused to the customer by our negligence, and include an overall limitation of liability clause. It is also our general practice to include a limitation of liability for consequential loss, including loss of profits and loss of revenue, in all customer contracts. Our indemnity structure may not protect us in every case. Certain U.S. states have enacted oil and natural gas specific anti-indemnity statutes that can void the allocation of liability agreed to in a contract. Applicable law or the negotiated terms of a customer contract may also limit indemnity obligations in the event of gross negligence or willful misconduct. We sometimes contract with customers that are not the end user of our products. It is our practice to seek to obtain an indemnity from our customer for any end-user claims, but this is not always possible. Similarly, government agencies and other third parties may make claims in respect of which we are not indemnified and for which responsibility is assessed proportionate to fault. We have an established process to review any risk deviations from our standard contracting practices. The Company maintains a commercial general liability insurance policy program that covers against certain operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims, as well as certain limited environmental pollution claims for damage to a third party or its property arising out of contact with pollution for which the Company is liable; however, clean up and well control costs are not covered by such program. All of the insurance policies purchased by the Company are subject to deductible and/or self-insured retention amounts for which we are responsible for payment, specific terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions. There can be no assurance that the nature and amount of Company insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities related to our business. ORDERS AND REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS Remaining performance obligations, a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), are unfilled customer orders for products and product services excluding any purchase order that provides the customer with the ability to cancel or terminate without incurring a substantive penalty, even if the likelihood of cancellation is remote based on historical experience. For product services, an amount is included for the expected life of the contract. We recognized orders of $21.7 billion, $20.7 billion and $27.0 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, the remaining performance obligations totaled $23.6 billion, $23.4 billion and $22.9 billion, respectively. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We engage in research and development activities directed primarily toward the development of new products, services, technology, and other solutions, as well as the improvement of existing products, services and the design of specialized products to meet specific customer needs. We continue to invest across all operating segments in products to enhance safety, develop capability, improve performance, and reduce costs aligned with our operational strategy. Through our Enterprise Technology Centers we also invest heavil