Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 26 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 48 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 49 Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) 52 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 53 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 54 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity 55 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 56 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 95 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 95 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 96 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 98 Signatures 99 Baker Hughes Company 2023 Form 10-K | i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Baker Hughes Company ("Baker Hughes," "the Company," "we," "us," or "our") is an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. Built on a century of experience and conducting business in over 120 countries, our innovative technologies and services are taking energy forward. OUR VISION STRATEGY With the breadth of our portfolio, leading technology, and unique partnership models, we are positioned to deliver outcome-based solutions across the energy and industrial markets. By integrating health, safety environment ("HSE") into everything we do, we protect our people, our customers, and the environment. The oil and gas macroeconomic environment continues to be complex. While we believe that the world's reliance on hydrocarbons will not disappear, and oil and gas will continue to remain relevant in meeting global energy demand, we also acknowledge the need to transition to new energy sources. Over the last several years, this transition has been progressing, with governments and society focused on a long-term goal of net-zero emissions while trying to balance the "energy trilemma" - energy security, sustainability, and affordability. There is a growing consensus that the energy transition will likely take longer than many expected due to the energy trilemma. We believe the industry is going through a transformation that requires a change in how we work with our existing and new customers expecting new partnerships and commercial models and new technology solutions to deliver sustainable productivity improvements and leverage economies of scale, with a lower carbon footprint. That is why our strategy is focused on improving our core competitiveness and delivering higher-productivity solutions today, while positioning to lead the energy transition and solving the energy trilemma. Our unique portfolio is expected to benefit regardless of how quickly the energy transition develops. Our strategy is based on three key pillars: Transform the core : We are transforming our current business to improve margins and cash flow, which we are achieving through portfolio rationalization, cost improvement, and new business models. Invest for growth: We are driving organic and inorganic growth in high potential markets where we have a strong position, including industrial power and processes, industrial asset management, non-metallics, and chemicals. Position for new energy frontiers: We are making strategic investments to drive lower carbon emissions in the energy and industrial sectors, including hydrogen; geothermal; carbon capture, utilization and storage ("CCUS"); and clean power solutions. We expect to benefit from our strategy in the following ways: Scope and scale: We have a global presence and a broad, diversified portfolio. Our products, services, and expertise serve the upstream, midstream/liquefied natural gas ("LNG") and downstream sectors of the oil and gas industry, as well as broader chemical and industrial segments. We deliver through our two operating segments: Oilfield Services Equipment ("OFSE") and Industrial Energy Technology ("IET") as discussed below under "Products and Services," and each are among the top providers for the majority of the product lines in the markets they serve. Technology: Our culture is built on a heritage of innovation and invention through research and development, with complementary capabilities. Technology remains a differentiator for us, and a key enabler to drive the efficiency and productivity gains our customers need. We also have a range of technologies that support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. We remain committed to investing in our products and services to maintain our leadership position across our offerings, including $658 million research and development ("R D") spend and being granted more than 2,000 patents worldwide in 2023. We have also made strategic acquisitions to strengthen our core technology portfolio, including Altus Intervention which adds significant well intervention capabilities to our OFSE segment. Baker Hughes Company 2023 Form 10-K | 1 Energy transition solutions: We are positioned to support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint with a range of emissions-abatement products and services, which we refer to as "new energy." This includes more efficient power generation and compression technology, as well as sensor technology that reduces flaring and overall carbon emissions, technology for CCUS, hydrogen production, transportation, storage and distribution, and geothermal solutions. Over the past several years, we have made progress in strategic investments and acquisitions in emerging energy technologies to advance CCUS, hydrogen, clean power and e-fuels with companies such as Mosaic, Nemesys, HIF Global, and NET Power, among others. We also continue to expand our low to zero-carbon solutions capabilities, helping customers to detect, quantify, and reduce emissions more efficiently and accurately, and complementing our existing solutions available today. Digital capabilities: We expect to benefit from the emerging demand for intelligent operations and artificial intelligence ("AI") based solutions as part of our customers' digital transformation initiatives. In 2023, we launched several key digital solutions across our portfolio for existing customers, including Cordant for industrial and energy customers and the Leucipa automated field production solution for oilfield customers. We also continued our investments in digital partners, including Corva. In addition to enhancing our technology portfolio with new AI applications, we are embedding digital elements in our core OFSE product lines, helping them to deliver efficiency, predictability, and a better experience for our customers and ourselves. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our two operating segments are organized based on the nature of our markets and customers and consist of similar products and services and growth profiles. We sell to our customers through direct and indirect channels. Our primary sales channel is through our direct sales force, which has a strong regional focus with local teams close to the customer, who are able to draw support from centers of excellence in each of our major product lines. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets and the competitive environment varies by product line. See discussion below by segment. Oilfield Services Equipment The OFSE segment designs and manufactures products and provides related services for onshore and offshore oilfield operations across the lifecycle of an asset, ranging from exploration, appraisal, and development to production, rejuvenation, and decommissioning. Beyond its traditional oilfield concentration, OFSE is also expanding its capabilities and technology portfolio to meet the challenges of the energy transition, including focusing on new energy areas, such as geothermal and CCUS, strengthening its digital architecture, and addressing key energy market themes. The OFSE segment is organized into four product lines. Well Construction focuses on drilling and includes drilling services (directional drilling, logging-while-drilling, surface logging, and remote operations), drill bits (polycrystalline, roller cone, hybrid, and in-bit sensing), and drilling completion fluids (emulsion-based, water-based, specialty, drill-in, and completion fluids; and waste management). Completions, Intervention, Measurements encompasses completions (wellbore construction, upper and lower completions, unconventional multistage completions, intelligent production systems, workover systems, and fishing and through-tubing services), pressure pumping (cementing, production enhancement, coiled tubing, and tubular running services), and wireline services (openhole logging services, cased-hole logging services, and perforating and drill stem-testing services). Production Solutions spans artificial lift systems (electrical submersible pumping systems, surface pumping systems, rigless deployment systems, and sensors and gauges) and oilfield industrial chemicals (upstream, downstream, and Aquaness TM wholesale chemicals). Subsea Surface Pressure Systems includes subsea projects and services (subsea trees, controls, manifolds, wellheads, premium casing connectors, installation and commissioning, repairs and Baker Hughes Company 2023 Form 10-K | 2 maintenance, well intervention, life-of-field solutions, and plug and abandonment), flexible pipe systems (subsea risers, subsea flowlines and jumpers, onshore reinforced thermoplastic pipe, and rehabilitation), and surface pressure control systems (surface trees and wellheads). These product lines are supported by an OFSE digital group, which combines the segment's domain expertise with a deep understanding of digital technology to improve operational safety, performance, and sustainability. Reservoir analysis proficiencies are rooted in evaluation technologies, a team of reservoir experts, and software. Together, these capabilities provide customers with a greater understanding of the subsurface, enabling smoother, faster drilling and precise wellbore placement that can lead to improved recovery and project economics. OFSE also provides integrated well services and solutions to plan and execute projects ranging from well construction and production through well abandonment, in addition to integrated services and solutions for the subsea environment. OFSE customers include large integrated major and super-major oil and natural gas companies; U.S. and international independent oil and natural gas companies; national or state-owned oil and natural gas companies; engineering, procurement, and construction contractors; geothermal companies; and other oilfield services companies. OFSE believes that its principal competitive differentiators in the industries and markets it serves are the quality, efficiency, reliability, and availability of its products and services. A continued commitment to service delivery, HSE standards, technical proficiency, and competitive pricing is also a key factor in its success. OFSE products and services are sold in highly competitive markets. While OFSE may have contracts that include multiple well projects and that may extend over a period ranging from two to four years, its services and products are generally provided on a well-by-well basis. Most contracts cover pricing of the products and services, along with various limitations on liability, but do not necessarily establish an obligation to use OFSE products and services. OFSE competitors include SLB and Halliburton (Well Construction; Completions, Intervention, Measurements; Production Solutions; Subsea Surface Pressure Systems); ChampionX (Production Solutions); and TechnipFMC, Aker Solutions, and NOV (Subsea Surface Pressure Systems). Industrial Energy Technology The IET segment combines a broad array of domain expertise, technologies, software, and services for energy customers including on-and offshore, LNG, pipeline and gas storage, refining, petrochemical, distributed gas, nuclear, hydrogen, carbon capture, utilization and storage, clean power and renewables. It also provides cutting edge technology for consumers of energy and/or organizations who are reliant on infrastructure integrity. IET solutions unlock the ability to transform, transfer, and transport energy efficiently, while capturing and cutting emissions, addressing a fundamental challenge behind the energy trilemma: reducing environmental impact, while maximizing efficiency, safety, productivity, reliability and availability. Effective October 1, 2023, IET re-aligned its product lines and began operating through five product lines - Gas Technology Equipment, Gas Technology Services, Industrial Products, Industrial Solutions, and Climate Technology Solutions . Gas Technology Equipment delivers highly efficient mechanical and electric drive compression and power generation technology for projects across the natural gas value chain. The product line's portfolio includes drivers, driven equipment, flow control, and turnkey solutions: Drivers include aero-derivative gas turbines, heavy-duty gas turbines, small- to medium-sized industrial gas turbines, steam turbines, and hot gas and turboexpanders. Driven equipment includes generators and reciprocating, centrifugal, integrated zero emission compressors, and centrifugal pumps. Turnkey solutions includes power generation and gas compression modules, waste heat/energy/pressure recovery, energy storage, modularized small and large liquefaction plants, CO2 compression, and storage/use solutions. Gas Technology Services provides advanced aftermarket support and uptime availability in critical environments and through every stage of our customers' equipment and plant lifecycle. The product line's portfolio includes: Baker Hughes Company 2023 Form 10-K | 3 Designing, manufacturing, maintaining, upgrading rotating equipment combining sophisticated hardware technologies with enterprise-class software products. Analytics to connect customers' assets, providing them with the data, safety and security needed to improve operations reliably and efficiently. Genuine spare parts, system upgrades, conversion solutions, digital advanced services, and turnkey solutions to refurbish and improve the output from a single machine up to an entire plant. Industrial Products includes a broad portfolio of component products and service offerings that enable industrial safety and productivity across diverse industry verticals. The product line's portfolio includes: Waygate Technologies, which comprises non-destructive testing technology, software, and services, including industrial radiography, ultrasonic sensors, testing machines and gauges, non-destructive testing film, and remote visual inspection. Process Pipeline Services, which comprises pre-commissioning and maintenance services to improve throughput and asset integrity for process facilities and pipelines as well as inline inspection solutions to support pipeline integrity. Valves and Gears, which comprises flow technology including industrial valves, regulators, control systems, gears and other flow and process control technologies. Industrial Solutions offers a unique suite of hardware, software, and edge device solutions that enable asset performance and process optimization. Industrial Solutions combines several product lines to leverage our critical equipment hardware capability to migrate to full plant offerings and through Cordant, a full-stack, edge-to-enterprise solution that encompasses our hardware, software and services offerings. The product line's portfolio includes: Precision Sensors Instrumentation device technology including the Panametrics , Druck , and Reuter-Stokes product brands, provides instrumentation and sensor-based technologies to better detect and analyze pressure, flow, gas, moisture, radiation, and related conditions. Condition Monitoring includes the Bently Nevada and System 1 product brands, providing rack-based vibrating monitoring equipment and sensors for both power generation and oil and gas operations, as well as industrial applications. The product line also provides integrated asset performance management. Climate Technology Solutions ("CTS") includes CCUS, hydrogen, clean power, and emissions abatement capabilities to enable energy operators as well as users of energy in the broader industry, in particular the hard-to-abate sectors, to achieve their emission reduction goals. This product line is the primary driver of the Company's new energy orders and is designed to accelerate the decarbonization of both energy and hard-to-abate industries. IET customers for Gas Technology Equipment and Gas Technology Services product lines are upstream, midstream, and downstream, onshore, and offshore, and small to large scale. Midstream and downstream customers include LNG plants, pipelines, storage facilities, refineries, and a wide range of industrial and engineering, procurement, and construction companies. Products and services for the remaining IET product lines are primarily sold in a diversified arena to a broad range of customers and across multiple verticals including aerospace, automotive, nuclear, oil and gas, mining, cement, metals, refinery and petrochemical, food and beverage, pulp paper, and textile. IET believes that its principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product range coverage, product technology, efficiency, product reliability and quality, availability, project execution and service capabilities, emissions, and price. IET differentiates itself from competitors with its expertise in technology and project management, local presence, and partnerships, to provide fully integrated equipment and services solutions with state-of-art technology from design and manufacture through to operations. IET competes across a wide range of industries, including oil and gas, power generation, aerospace, and light and heavy industrials. IET competitors for Gas Technology Equipment product line includes Siemens Energy, Solar (a Caterpillar company), and MAN Energy Solutions. Our Gas Technology Services product line competes with Baker Hughes Company 2023 Form 10-K | 4 independent service providers such as Masaood John Brown, EthosEnergy, and Sulzer. IET competitors for the Industrial Products product line include Emerson, Flowserve, and Metso Outotec. Competitors for the Industrial Solutions product line include Emerson, Honeywell Process Solutions, and ABB. CTS competitors are varied across application. For CCUS, competitors include Aker Carbon Capture, Svante, and SLB. For hydrogen, competitors include Siemens Energy, Howden (a Chart Industries company), and Burckhardt . CONTRACTS We conduct our business under various types of contracts in the upstream, midstream, and downstream sectors of the oil and gas industry, including fixed-fee or turnkey contracts, transactional agreements for products and services, and long-term aftermarket service agreements. We also conduct business in a number of industrial markets and provide critical equipment hardware capability for full plant offerings, asset performance management and process optimization. We benefit from stable relationships with many of our customers based on long-term project contracts and master service agreements. Several of those contracts require us to commit to a fixed price based on the customer's technical specifications with little or no relief available due to changes in circumstances. In some cases, failure to deliver products or perform services within contractual commitments may lead to liquidated damages claims. We seek to mitigate these exposures through close collaboration with our customers. We strive to negotiate the terms of our customer contracts consistent with what we consider to be industry best practices. In connection with oil gas operations, our customers typically indemnify us for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of their employees and often their contractors; the loss of or damage to their facility and equipment, and often that of their contractors; pollution originating from their equipment or facility; and all liabilities related to the well and subsurface operations, including loss or damage to the well or reservoir, loss of well control, fire, explosion, or any uncontrolled flow of oil or gas. Conversely, we typically indemnify our customers for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of our employees and often that of our subcontractors; the loss of or damage to our equipment; and surface pollution originating from our equipment while under our control. Where the above indemnities do not apply or are not consistent with industry best practices (e.g., in connection with industrial and/or digital sectors), we typically provide a capped indemnity for damages caused to the customer by our negligence and include an overall limitation of liability clause. It is also our general practice to include a limitation of liability for consequential loss, including loss of profits and loss of revenue, in all customer contracts. Our indemnity structure may not protect us in every case. Certain U.S. states have enacted oil and natural gas specific anti-indemnity statutes that can void the allocation of liability agreed to in a contract. Applicable law or the negotiated terms of a customer contract may also limit indemnity obligations in the event of gross negligence or willful misconduct, or in the event of breaches of applicable laws or breach of confidentiality and/or intellectual property rights. We sometimes contract with customers that are not the end user of our products. It is our practice to seek to obtain an indemnity from our customer for any end-user claims, but this is not always possible. Similarly, government agencies and other third parties may make claims in respect of which we are not indemnified and for which responsibility is assessed proportionate to fault. We have an established process to review any risk deviations from our standard contracting practices. The Company maintains a commercial general liability insurance policy program that covers against certain operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims, as well as certain limited environmental pollution claims for damage to a third party or its property arising out of contact with pollution for which the Company is liable; however, clean up and well control costs are not covered by such program. All of the insurance policies purchased by the Company are subject to deductible and/or self-insured retention amounts for which we are responsible for payment, specific terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions. There can be no assurance that the nature and amount of Company insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities related to our business. Baker Hughes Company 2023 Form 10-K | 5 ORDERS AND REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS Remaining performance obligations, a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are unfilled customer orders for products and product services excluding any purchase order that provides the customer with the ability to cancel or terminate without incurring a substantive penalty, even if the likelihood of cancellation is remote based on historical experience. For product services, an amount is included for the expected life of the contract. We recognized orders of $30.5 billion and $26.8 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively. We recognized OFSE orders of $16.3 billion and $14.1 billion, and IET orders of $14.2 billion and $12.7 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, the remaining performance obligations totaled $33.5 billion. As of December 31, 2023, OFSE remaining performance obligations totaled $3.5 billion, and IET remaining performance obligations totaled $29.9 billion. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We engage in R D activities across both operating segments directed toward the development of new products, services, technology, and other solutions, as well as bringing about a significant improvement to existing products and services, and the design of specialized products to meet specific customer needs. We also continue to invest and develop a range of technologies that support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we incurred $658 million of R D expense. In OFSE, we continue to fund a range of formation evaluation, drilling, completions, and production capabilities and products. In parallel, and in strong collaboration with the IET technology organization, we are investing in strategic themes that fuel our future product and service portfolios. These include themes such as digital, automation, electrification, chemistry and materials, electronics, CCUS, and geothermal. Specifically for OFSE, in our Well Construction product line, we are improving reliability in high-temperature and high shock and vibration environments (harsh-drilling conditions), through a combination of optimized design, automated operations, and integrated solutions that leverage our drilling tools, drill bits, and drilling fluids technologies. In our Completions, Intervention, and Measurements product line, we are investing in intelligent solutions and advanced measurements while creating a leadership position in the well-intervention domain through the integration of our wireline measurement capabilities with the conveyance and intervention capabilities. In our Production Solutions product line, we are leveraging our artificial lift technologies with our chemical solutions to provide an optimized and automated portfolio of production-enhancing solutions. In our Subsea and Surface Pressure Solutions product line, we continue to develop subsea production systems that improve performance and reduce emissions through lighter design, automated operations, and electrification. Our offshore flexible pipe systems optimized for higher pressure temperature and CO2 content continue to deliver greater sustainability and performance. In IET, we continue to invest in and develop foundational technologies which will enable our journey for the energy transition. Such technologies include advanced materials, advanced manufacturing technologies, novel process technologies, and digital technologies such as advanced sensing diagnostics, data sciences, and artificial intelligence. Within Gas Technology Equipment and Gas Technology Services product lines, we are focusing on our latest generation of gas turbines for energy efficiency and reduced carbon footprint such as our LM9000 TM and Nova LT TM products, as well as Allam Cycle turboexpander, CCUS, and hydrogen and geothermal technologies. Within Industrial Technology, we are investing in advanced digital solutions designed to improve the efficiency, reliability, and safety of oil and gas, aerospace, energy, and broader industrial production and operations. This includes our Orbit 60 Bently Nevada product for critical asset monitoring in turbine systems, including wind, hydro, and gas turbines. The IET segment is also enhancing its process and safety valve business bringing new digital applications including analytics to our customers. Investments in Industrial Technology also include technologies to measure, monitor, and minimize carbon emissions, new inspection technologies for nondestructive evaluation of materials and structures as well as solutions for industrial asset management. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our technology, brands and other intellectual property ("IP") rights are important elements of our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as non-disclosure and employee invention Baker Hughes Company 2023 Form 10-K | 6 assignment agreements to protect our IP rights. Many patents and patent applications comprise the Baker Hughes portfolio and are owned by us. Other patents and patent applications applicable to our products and services are licensed to us by General Electric ("GE") and, in some cases, third parties. In particular, we have an IP cross-license agreement with GE that allows both parties to have continued and permanent rights to commercially utilize certain IP of the other pursuant to the terms of the agreement. The IP cross-licenses remain in place following GE exiting its ownership position in us. We do not consider any individual patent to be material to our business operations. We follow a policy of seeking patent and trademark protection in numerous countries and regions throughout the world for products and methods that appear to have commercial significance. We believe that maintenance, protection and enforcement of our patents, trademarks, and related IP rights is central to the conduct of our business, and aggressively pursue protection of our IP rights against infringement, misappropriation, or other violation worldwide as may be necessary to protect our bus