Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 45 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 46 Consolidated and Combined Statements of Income (Loss) 49 Consolidated and Combined Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 50 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 51 Consolidated and Combined Statements of Changes in Equity 52 Consolidated and Combined Statements of Cash Flows 53 Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B. Other Information 103 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 104 Item 11. Executive Compensation 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 104 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 105 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 105 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 110 Signatures 111 Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Baker Hughes Company (Baker Hughes, the Company, we, us, or our) is an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. We conduct business in more than 120 countries and employ approximately 68,000 employees. The Company was formed as the result of a combination between Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI) and the oil and gas business (GE O G) of General Electric Company (GE) (the Transactions), which resulted in GE owning approximately 62.5% of the Company. As a result of the Transactions, substantially all of the business of GE O G and of Baker Hughes, was transferred to a subsidiary of the Company, Baker Hughes, a GE company, LLC (BHGE LLC). As of September 16, 2019, GE ceased to hold more than 50% of the voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. Subsequently, on October 17, 2019, the Company changed its name from Baker Hughes, a GE company to Baker Hughes Company. On October 18, 2019, the Company began trading as BKR on the New York Stock Exchange. SEPARATION FROM GE In June 2018, GE announced their intention to pursue an orderly separation from Baker Hughes over time. To that end, in November 2018, we completed a secondary public offering in which GE and its affiliates sold 101.2 million shares of our Class A common stock. We did not receive any proceeds from the shares sold by GE and its affiliates. The offering included the exchange by GE and its affiliates of common units of BHGE LLC (LLC Units), together with the corresponding shares of our Class B common stock, for our Class A common stock. Also, in November 2018, we repurchased 65 million of our Class B common stock, together with an equal number of associated LLC Units, from GE and its affiliates for $1.5 billion . In connection with this repurchase, the corresponding shares of Class B common stock and LLC Units were canceled. As a result of this secondary offering and repurchase, GE's interest in Baker Hughes was reduced from approximately 62.5% to approximately 50.4% . In November 2018, we entered into a Master Agreement and a series of related ancillary agreements and binding term sheets with GE and BHGE LLC (collectively, the Master Agreement Framework, which were later negotiated into definitive agreements) designed to further solidify the commercial and technological collaboration between us and GE. The Master Agreement Framework focuses on areas where we work most closely with GE on developing leading technology and executing for customers. First, we defined the parameters for long-term collaboration and partnership with GE on critical rotating equipment technology. Second, for our digital software and technology business we agreed to maintain the status quo as the exclusive supplier of GE Digital oil and-gas applications, although this commercial arrangement was modified pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, discussed below, including by rendering the relationship with GE Digital to be nonexclusive with respect to digital offerings in the oil and gas space. Finally, we reached agreements on a number of other areas including our controls business, pension, taxes, and intercompany services. All agreements within the Master Agreement Framework were finalized by the first quarter of 2019. In July 2019, we also entered into an Omnibus Agreement, a general framework agreement that addresses certain outstanding matters under existing long-term commercial agreements between us and GE. The Omnibus Agreement contains provisions regarding, among other things, (i) the repayment of certain outstanding amounts mutually owed by the parties, (ii) certain employee and assets transfers (including the allocation of costs and expenses associated therewith), and (iii) certain matters related to three international joint ventures. Modifications to the commercial arrangements between us and GE included, among other things, modification of the relationship between BHGE LLC and GE Digital to be nonexclusive with respect to digital offerings in the oil and gas space. In September 2019, we completed another secondary public offering in which GE and its affiliates sold 132.3 million shares of our Class A common stock. We did not receive any proceeds from the shares sold by GE and its affiliates in this offering. The offering included the exchange by GE and its affiliates of LLC Units, together with the corresponding shares of our Class B common stock, for our Class A common stock. Also, in September 2019, we repurchased 11.9 million shares of our Class B common stock, together with an equal number of associated LLC Units, from GE and its affiliates for $250 million . In connection with this repurchase, the corresponding shares of Class B common stock and LLC Units were canceled. As a result of this secondary offering and repurchase, GE's interest in Baker Hughes was reduced to approximately 36.8% , and therefore, GE ceased to hold more than 50% of Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 1 the voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. As of December 31, 2019, GE's interest in us was 36.7% . For a discussion of certain risks associated with the separation, including risks related to our business, financial condition and results of operations, see