Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Reserved 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 34 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 65 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 65 Item 9B. Other Information 66 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 66 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 67 Item 11. Executive Compensation 67 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 67 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 68 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 68 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 69 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 71 2 PART I I tem 1. Business CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Statements in this report and the schedules hereto that are not purely historical facts or that necessarily depend upon future events, including statements about expected market share gains, forecasted financial performance or other statements about anticipations, beliefs, expectations, hopes, intentions or strategies for the future, may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. In addition, oral statements made by our directors, officers and employees to the investor and analyst communities, media representatives and others, depending upon their nature, may also constitute forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based upon currently available information and the Company s current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. Forward-looking statements are by nature inherently uncertain, and actual results or events may differ materially from the results or events described in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company s control or may be currently unknown to the Company, that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from the events or results described in the forward-looking statements, including risks or uncertainties related to the Company s acquisitions, the Company s growth strategies, including gaining market share and its digital strategies, or the Company s revenues and operating results being highly dependent on, among other things, the homebuilding industry, lumber prices and macroeconomic trends, including interest rates and potential labor and supply shortages. The Company may not succeed in addressing these and other risks. Further information regarding the risk factors that could affect our financial and other results are included as Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10-K and may also be described from time to time in the other reports the Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Consequently, all forward-looking statements in this report are qualified by the factors, risks and uncertainties contained therein. OVERVIEW We are a leading supplier and manufacturer of building materials, manufactured components and construction services to professional homebuilders, sub-contractors, remodelers and consumers. The Company operates approximately 570 locations in 43 states across the United States ( U.S. ), which are internally organized into geographic operating divisions. Due to the similar economic characteristics, categories of products, distribution methods and customers, our operating divisions are aggregated into one reportable segment. We offer an integrated solution to our customers by providing manufacturing, supply and installation of a full range of structural and related building products. Our manufactured products include our factory-built roof and floor trusses, wall panels, vinyl windows, custom millwork and trim, as well as engineered wood that we design, cut, and assemble specifically for each home. We also assemble interior and exterior doors into pre-hung units. Additionally, we supply our customers with a broad offering of professional grade building products not manufactured by us, such as dimensional lumber and lumber sheet goods and various window, door and millwork lines along with other specialty building products. Our full range of construction-related services include professional installation, turn-key framing and shell construction, spanning all of our product categories. Further, through our Paradigm subsidiary, we offer software solutions and services for the building products industry. Builders FirstSource, Inc. is a Delaware corporation formed in 1998 as BSL Holdings, Inc. On October 13, 1999, our name changed to Builders FirstSource, Inc. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol BLDR . OUR INDUSTRY We operate in the professional segment ( Pro Segment ) of the U.S. residential building products supply market. Customers in the Pro Segment primarily include production and custom homebuilders, remodeling contractors, and multifamily builders. The industry remains highly fragmented with competition from large national dealers, specialty dealers, large building supply retailers, regional and local material distributors and smaller privately owned suppliers, truss manufacturers and lumberyards. As such, the industry presents significant opportunities for growth and attractive acquisition opportunities. The residential building products industry is driven by the level of activity in both the U.S. residential new construction market and the U.S. residential repair and remodeling market. Growth within these markets is linked to a number of key factors, including demographic trends, housing demand, interest rates, employment levels, availability of credit, foreclosure rates, consumer confidence, the availability of qualified tradesmen, and the state of the economy in general. 3 The residential building products industry is characterized by several key trends, including greater utilization of manufactured components, an expanding role of the distributor in providing turn-key services and a consolidation of suppliers by homebuilders, as described in more detail below. Additionally, there is increasing interest in using digital tools to help drive end-to-end efficiencies throughout the construction industry. Prefabricated components : Compared to conventional stick-build construction where builders cut and assemble lumber at the job site with their own labor, prefabricated components are engineered in an offsite location using specialized equipment and labor. This outsourced task allows for optimal material usage, lower overall labor costs and improved quality of structural elements. In addition, using prefabricated components typically results in faster construction because fabrication can be automated and performed more systematically. As such, we believe there is a long-term trend towards increased use of prefabricated components by homebuilders. Turn - key services : Many homebuilders have taken a more limited role in the homebuilding process and have outsourced certain key elements of the construction process, including process management, product selection, order input, scheduling, framing and installation. As such, we believe that many homebuilders are increasingly looking to suppliers in the Pro Segment to perform these critical functions, resulting in greater demand for integrated project services. Consolidation of suppliers by homebuilders : We believe that homebuilders are increasingly looking to consolidate their supplier base. Many homebuilders are seeking a more strategic relationship with suppliers that are able to offer a broad range of products and services and, as a result, are allocating a greater share of wallet to a select number of larger, full-service suppliers. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the single-family residential construction market was an estimated $392.1 billion in 2023, which was 13.5% lower than 2022. Further, according to the Home Improvement Research Institute ( HIRI ) in its September 2023 semi-annual forecast, the professional repair and remodel end market was an estimated $167.8 billion in 2023, which was 5.0% lower than 2022. OUR CUSTOMERS We serve a broad customer base across the U.S. We have a diverse geographic footprint, as we have operations in 48 of the top 50 and 89 of the top 100 U.S. Metropolitan Statistical Areas ( MSAs ), as ranked by single family housing permits based on available 2023 U.S. Census data. Given the local nature of our business, we have historically and will continue to locate our facilities in close proximity to our key customers and co-locate multiple operations in one facility to improve efficiency. We have a diversified customer base, ranging from large production builders to small custom homebuilders, as well as multifamily builders, repair and remodeling contractors and light commercial contractors. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our top 10 customers accounted for 14.7% of net sales, with our largest customer accounting for 4.5% of net sales. Our top 10 customers are comprised primarily of the largest national production homebuilders, including publicly traded companies such as D.R. Horton, Inc., Dream Finders Homes, Inc., Lennar Corporation, Pulte Homes, Inc., Taylor Morrison Home Corporation, and Toll Brothers Inc. In addition to the largest production homebuilders, we also service and supply regional production and local custom homebuilders as well as repair and remodeling contractors and multifamily builders. These customers require high levels of service and a broad product offering. Our sales team expects to work very closely with the designers on a day-to-day basis in order to ensure the appropriate products are identified, ordered or produced and delivered on time to the building site. To account for these increased service costs, pricing in the industry is tied to the level of service provided and the volumes purchased. Servicing a broad range of homebuilders, including single-family and multifamily builders, and remodeling contractors allows us to more effectively manage market conditions that may have an outsized adverse impact on a specific customer segment. OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We group our building products and services into four product categories: Lumber and Lumber Sheet Goods. Lumber and lumber sheet goods include dimensional lumber, plywood and oriented strand board ( OSB ) products used in on-site house framing. The products in this category are highly sensitive to fluctuations in market prices for such commodities. Manufactured Products. Manufactured products are factory-built substitutes for job-site framing and include wood floor and roof trusses, wall panels, and engineered wood that we design, cut, and assemble for each home. Manufactured products also include our proprietary whole-house framing solution, Ready-Frame , which designs, pre-cuts, labels, and bundles lumber into customized framing packages, saving builders both time and money and improving job-site safety. Our manufactured products allow builders to 4 build higher quality homes more efficiently. Roof trusses, floor trusses, and wall panels are built in a factory-controlled environment. Engineered floors and beams are cut to the required size and packaged for the given application at many of our locations. Without manufactured products, builders construct these items on-site, where weather and variable labor quality can negatively impact construction cost, quality and installation time. In addition, engineered wood beams have greater structural strength than conventional framing materials, allowing builders to frame houses with more open space creating a wider variety of house designs. Engineered wood floors and open-web floor trusses are also stronger and straighter than conventionally framed floors. While not as sensitive to commodity price fluctuations as lumber and lumber sheet goods, the products in this category are constructed using lumber and lumber sheet goods, and thus are somewhat sensitive to commodity price fluctuations. Windows, Doors and Millwork. Windows and doors are comprised of the manufacturing, assembly and distribution of windows, and the assembly and distribution of interior and exterior door units. We manufacture a portion of the vinyl windows that we distribute in our plant in Houston, Texas which allows us to supply builders, primarily in the Texas market, with cost-competitive products. Our pre-hung interior and exterior doors consist of a door slab with hinges and door jambs attached, reducing on-site installation time and providing higher quality finished door units than those constructed on-site. These products typically require a high degree of product knowledge and training to sell. Millwork includes interior trim and custom features, including those that we manufacture under the Synboard brand name. Synboard is produced from extruded PVC and offers several advantages over traditional wood features, such as greater durability and no ongoing maintenance, such as periodic caulking and painting. Specialty Building Products and Services. Specialty building products and services consist of various products, including vinyl, composite and wood siding, exterior trim, metal studs, cement, roofing, insulation, wallboard, ceilings, cabinets and hardware. This category also includes services such as turn-key framing, shell construction, design assistance and professional installation of products spanning all of our product categories. We provide professional installation and turn-key services as a solution for our homebuilder customers. Through our installation services program, we help homebuilders realize efficiencies through improved scheduling, resulting in reduced cycle time and better cost controls. By utilizing an energy efficiency software program, we also assist homebuilders in designing energy efficient homes in order to meet increasingly stringent energy rating requirements. Upgrading to our premium windows, doors, and insulating products can reduce overall cost to the homebuilder by minimizing costs of the required heating/cooling system. We work closely with the homebuilder to select the appropriate mix of our products to meet current and forthcoming energy codes. We believe these services require scale, capital and sophistication that smaller competitors do not possess. We also offer software products through our Paradigm subsidiary, including drafting, estimating, quoting, and virtual home design services, which provide software solutions to retailers, distributors, manufacturers and homebuilders that help them boost sales, reduce costs, and become more competitive. We believe that the homebuilding and remodeling industries are increasingly adopting digital solutions and that we are well-positioned to take advantage of these trends because of our scale and continuous investments in digital technologies through our Paradigm business. We compete in a highly competitive and fragmented marketplace. We believe our integrated approach and scale allow us to compete effectively through our comprehensive product lines, prefabricated components and value-added services, combined with the knowledge of our integrated sales forces to enable our homebuilder customers to complete construction more quickly, with higher quality and at a lower cost. While we expect these benefits to be particularly valuable to our customers in market environments characterized by labor shortages and sourcing challenges, we expect such benefits will also be increasingly valued and demanded by our customers operating under normal market conditions. MANUFACTURING Our manufacturing facilities utilize industry leading technology, including automated robotic truss lines, and high-quality materials to improve product quality, increase efficiency, reduce lead times and minimize production errors. We manufacture products within two of our product categories: manufactured products, and windows, doors millwork. Manufactured Products Trusses and Wall Panels. Truss and wall panel production has two steps design and fabrication. Each house requires its own set of designed shop drawings, which vary by builder type production versus custom builders. Production builders use prototype house plans as they replicate houses. These house plans may be minimally modified to suit individual customer demand. We maintain an electronic master file of trusses and wall panels for each builder s prototype houses. For custom builders, the components are designed individually for each house. We download the shop drawings from our design department to computerized saws. We assemble the cut lumber to form roof trusses, floor trusses or wall panels, before shipping the finished components by house to the job site. In addition, we offer our Ready-Frame framing system which uses specialty software to calculate project-specific lumber needs to provide pre-cut and labeled packages delivered and ready to assemble on the jobsite. Manufactured Products Engineered Wood. As with trusses and wall panels, engineered wood components have design and fabrication steps. We design engineered wood floors using a master filing system similar to the truss and wall panel system. Engineered wood beams are designed to ensure the beam will be structurally sound in the given application. After the design phase, a 5 printed layout is generated. We use this layout to cut the engineered wood to the required length and assemble all of the components into a house package. We design and fabricate engineered wood at many of our distribution locations. Custom Millwork. Our manufactured custom millwork consists primarily of interior and exterior pre-hung door systems, intricate interior and exterior mouldings, custom and premium windows, finish hardware, stair parts, mantels and columns units. Windows. We manufacture a full line of traditional vinyl windows at an approximately 200,000 square foot manufacturing facility located in Houston, Texas. The process begins by purchasing vinyl lineal extrusions. We cut these extrusions to size and join them together to form the window frame and sash. We then purchase sheet glass and cut it to size. We combine two pieces of identically shaped glass with a sealing compound to create a glass unit with improved insulating capability. We then insert the sealed glass unit and glaze it into the window frame and sash. The unit is completed when we install a balance to operate the window and add a lock to secure the window in a closed position. Pre-hung Doors. We manufacture pre-hung interior and exterior doors at many of our locations. We insert door slabs and pre-cut door jambs into a door machine, which bores holes into the doors for the door hardware and applies the jambs and hinges to the door slab. We then apply the casing that frames interior doors at a separate station. Exterior doors do not have a casing, and instead may have sidelights applied to the sides of the door, a transom attached over the top of the door unit and a door sill applied to the threshold. OUR STRATEGY By pursuing the Company s clear strategic pillars as outlined below, we intend to build on our advantaged market position to create value for our shareholders by increasing profits and net cash flow generation, while making us a more valuable partner to our customers. The resulting cash flow should provide meaningful opportunities for increased investment in organic and acquisitive growth that preserve our balance sheet strength, grow our return on invested capital and return capital to our shareholders. Organic Growth of Value-add Products and Services Maximize our share of wallet by capturing above-market growth in our higher margin value-added products . We believe our national manufacturing footprint and differentiated capabilities will allow us to capture growth in our higher margin value-added products, including trusses, wall panels and millwork. We believe our value-added products address the growing demand for ways to build homes more efficiently, addressing labor constraints and rising costs. We plan to accelerate this growth by further expanding our national manufacturing footprint to serve locations that do not currently have adequate access to these higher margin products. By focusing on our differentiated platform and broad product mix, we are able to offer a complete array of products and services that would otherwise need to be sourced from various distributors, providing us an opportunity to capture a greater share of wallet. This operational platform often will make us a preferred distributor for large-scale national homebuilders as well as local and custom homebuilders looking for more efficient ways to build a home. We have also made significant investments in digital solutions that we believe position us to take advantage of long-term digitization trends in the homebuilding and remodel industries. We believe that customers continue to place an increased value on these capabilities, which further differentiates us from our competitors. Leverage our competitive strengths to capitalize on housing market share . We intend to leverage our core business strengths including local market presence, national footprint, unmatched scale in manufacturing capability, breadth of product portfolio, and end market exposure to expand our sales and profit margins. Our customers continue to emphasize the importance of local access, competitive pricing, a broad product portfolio, sales force knowledge, labor-saving manufactured products, on-site services and overall ease of use with their building products suppliers. Our comprehensive product offering, experienced sales force, strong strategic vendor relationships, location coverage in important markets, and tenured senior management team position us well to capitalize on demand in the new home construction market and the repair and remodel segment. Our large delivery fleet, professional drivers, well-positioned locations, and comprehensive inventory management enable us to provide just-in-time product delivery, ensuring a smoother and faster production cycle for the homebuilder. Our comprehensive network of products, services and facilities provides a strategically advantaged service model which enhances our value to our customers and provides a strong platform to drive growth. We have also expanded our operational footprint in the multifamily and light commercial markets to position us for further growth in these end markets. Invest in Innovation and Drive Operational Excellence Optimize our highly scalable cost structure with operational excellence initiatives . We continue to focus on standardizing and automating processes and technology-based workflows to minimize costs, streamline our operations and enhance working capital efficiency. We are implementing operational excellence initiatives that are designed to further improve efficiency, as well as customer service. These initiatives, including distribution and logistics, pricing and margin management, back-office efficiencies, customer integration and systems-enabled process improvements, should yield significant cost savings. The scope and scale of our existing 6 infrastructure, customer base, and logistical capabilities mean that improvements in efficiency, when replicated across our network, can yield substantial profit margin expansion. Continue to Build our High-Performing Culture Strong emphasis on putting our people first . Our team members are a critical resource, and every single one makes a difference. Enhancing talent acquisition, employee development and retention will ensure we continue to attract and retain this valuable component of our business. Our team members are the face of the Company to our customers and the communities in which we operate. Their contributions in serving our customers are a fundamental component in our success. We care about our team members and strive to have a strong environmental, health and safety program that drives world-class safety results and ensures our team members leave their workplace safely, every day. We have developed programs to help progress our people s careers, such as our all-encompassing learning platform, 1-Team University, and we strive to maintain a performance-based culture. Environmental, social and governance strategy . We are also committed to making informed choices that improve our corporate governance, financial strength, operational efficiency, environmental stewardship, community engagement and resource management. Consistent with our core values, our goal is to be recognized by our customers as the preferred supplier, by our employees as a safe, diverse and inclusive workforce, by the industry as being at the forefront of innovation, by our stakeholders as an ethical company and by the communities in which we serve as a good corporate citizen. We recognize that the environmental sustainability of our products is important to both us as a company and to our customers. We prioritize purchasing and supplying sustainable wood products led by the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. Helping homebuilders become more productive, more efficient and safer is fundamental to what we do, and we are passionate about building this future together. Disciplined Capital Allocation Pursue strategic acquisitions . The highly fragmented nature of the Pro Segment of the U.S. residential new construction building products supply market presents substantial acquisition opportunities. Our long-term acquisition strategy is focused on pursuing potential acquisitions that present opportunities to add manufacturing capabilities in a relatively short period of time, or that provide opportunities to advance our position in desirable geographies and enhance our market strength in key products. We believe that our proven operating model can be successfully adapted to these markets and where homebuilders, many of whom we currently serve elsewhere, would value our broad product and service offering, professional expertise, and superior customer service. When entering a new market, our strategy is to acquire market-leading distributors and subsequently expand their product offerings or add manufacturing facilities while integrating their operations into our centralized platform. This strategy allows us to quickly achieve the scale required to maximize profitability and leverage existing customer relationships in the local market. Our management has shown the capability to effectively and efficiently integrate newly-acquired businesses, increase productivity, and drive value. We have successfully integrated over 60 acquisitions since 1998, including the company-transforming BMC and ProBuild transactions. Consistent capital allocation priorities . In addition to our acquisition strategy, we continue to focus on disciplined capital allocation to drive value creation. We actively monitor our working capital to align our needs with market demand signals and the size of our top-line. Additionally, our focus remains on maintaining a strong balance sheet, with a low net leverage ratio, providing multiple paths for capital deployment, including returning excess capital to shareholders through opportunistic share repurchases at an attractive long-term cost basis. SALES AND MARKETING We seek to attract and retain customers through exceptional customer service, leading product quality, broad product and service offerings, and competitive pricing. This strategy is centered on building and maintaining strong customer relationships rather than traditional marketing and advertising. We strive to add value for the homebuilders through shorter lead times, lower total project costs, faster project completion and higher quality. We believe by executing this strategy we will continue to generate new business. Our experienced, locally focused sales force is at the core of our sales effort. This sales effort involves deploying salespeople who are skilled in housing construction to meet with a homebuilder s construction superintendent, local purchasing agent, or local executive with the goal of becoming their primary product supplier. If selected by the homebuilder, the salesperson and his or her team review blueprints for the contracted homes and advise the homebuilder in areas, such as opportunities for cost reduction, increased energy efficiencies, and regional aesthetic preferences. Next, the team determines the specific package of products that are needed to complete the project and schedules a sequence of site deliveries. Our large delivery fleet and comprehensive inventory management systems enable us to provide just-in-time product delivery, ensuring a smoother and faster production cycle for the homebuilder. Throughout the construction process, the salesperson makes frequent site visits to ensure timely delivery and proper installation, and to make suggestions for efficiency improvements. We believe this level of service is highly valued by our customers and generates significant customer loyalty. At December 31, 20