ITEM 1. Business 4 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 18 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 ITEM 2. Properties 27 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 27 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II. 28 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 30 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 105 ITEM 9B. Other Information 106 PART III. 107 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 107 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 107 PART IV. 108 ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 108 2 PART I. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. ( Broadridge or the Company ) may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words such as expects, assumes, projects, anticipates, estimates, we believe, could be and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. In particular, information appearing under Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management s expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include: the potential impact and effects of the Covid-19 pandemic ( Covid-19 ) on the business of Broadridge, Broadridge s results of operations and financial performance, any measures Broadridge has and may take in response to Covid-19 and any expectations Broadridge may have with respect thereto; the success of Broadridge in retaining and selling additional services to its existing clients and in obtaining new clients; Broadridge s reliance on a relatively small number of clients, the continued financial health of those clients, and the continued use by such clients of Broadridge s services with favorable pricing terms; a material security breach or cybersecurity attack affecting the information of Broadridge s clients; changes in laws and regulations affecting Broadridge s clients or the services provided by Broadridge; declines in participation and activity in the securities markets; the failure of Broadridge s key service providers to provide the anticipated levels of service; a disaster or other significant slowdown or failure of Broadridge s systems or error in the performance of Broadridge s services; overall market and economic conditions and their impact on the securities markets; Broadridge s failure to keep pace with changes in technology and the demands of its clients; Broadridge s ability to attract and retain key personnel; the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures; and competitive conditions. There may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. We can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur or, if any of them do, what impact they will have on our results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the factors described in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain risks that could, among other things, cause our actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, other than as required by law. 3 ITEM 1. Business Overview Broadridge, a Delaware corporation and a part of the S P 500 Index ( S P ), is a global financial technology leader providing investor communications and technology-driven solutions to banks, broker-dealers, asset and wealth managers and corporate issuers. With over 50 years of experience, including over 10 years as an independent public company, we provide financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated solutions and an important infrastructure that powers the financial services industry. Our solutions enable better financial lives by powering investing, governance and communications and help reduce the need for our clients to make significant capital investments in operations infrastructure, thereby allowing them to increase their focus on core business activities. Our services include investor communications, securities processing, data and analytics, and customer communications solutions. We serve a large and diverse client base across four client groups: banks/broker-dealers, asset management firms/mutual funds, wealth management firms and corporate issuers. For capital markets firms, we help our clients lower costs and improve the effectiveness of their trade and account processing operations with support for their operational technologies, and their administration, finance, risk and compliance requirements. We serve asset management firms by meeting their critical needs for shareholder communications and by providing investment operations technology to support their investment decisions. For wealth management clients, we provide an integrated platform with tools that optimize advisor productivity, enhance client experience, and digitize enterprise operations. For our corporate issuer clients, we help manage every aspect of their shareholder communications, including registered and beneficial proxy processing, annual meeting support, transfer agency services and financial disclosure document creation, management and SEC filing services. We operate our business in two reportable segments: Investor Communication Solutions and Global Technology and Operations. Investor Communication Solutions We provide governance and communications solutions through our Investor Communication Solutions business segment to the following financial services clients: banks/broker-dealers, asset management firms/mutual funds, wealth management firms and corporate issuers. In addition to financial services firms, our Customer Communications business also serves companies in the healthcare, insurance, consumer finance, telecommunications, utilities and other service industries. A large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business involves the processing and distribution of proxy materials to investors in equity securities and mutual funds, as well as the facilitation of related vote processing. ProxyEdge ( ProxyEdge ) is our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors and financial advisors that helps ensure the voting participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. We also provide the distribution of regulatory reports and corporate action/reorganization event information, as well as tax reporting solutions that help our clients meet their regulatory compliance needs. For asset managers and retirement service providers, we offer data-driven solutions and an end-to-end platform for content management, composition, and multi-channel distribution of regulatory, marketing, and transactional information. Our data and analytics solutions provide investment product distribution data, analytical tools, insights, and research to enable asset managers to optimize product distribution across retail and institutional channels globally. Through Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc. ( Matrix ), we provide mutual fund trade processing services for retirement service providers, third-party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals. In addition, we provide public corporations and mutual funds with a full suite of solutions to help manage their annual meeting process, including registered and beneficial proxy distribution and processing services, proxy and annual report document management solutions, virtual shareholder meeting services, and solutions that help them gain insight into their shareholder base through our shareholder data services. We also offer financial reporting document composition and management solutions, SEC disclosure and filing services, and registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services through Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions. We provide customer communications solutions which include print and digital solutions, content management, postal optimization, and fulfillment services. These services include customer communications management capabilities through the Broadridge Communications Cloud SM platform (the Communications Cloud ). Through one point of integration, the Communications Cloud helps companies create, deliver, and manage multi-channel communications and customer engagement. The platform includes data-driven composition tools, identity and preference management, multi-channel optimization and digital communication experience, archive and information management, digital and print delivery, and analytics and reporting tools. 4 Global Technology and Operations We are a leading global provider of securities processing solutions for capital markets, wealth management, and asset management firms. We offer advanced solutions that automate the securities transaction lifecycle, from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to order capture and execution, trade confirmation, margin, cash management, clearance and settlement, asset servicing, reference data management, reconciliations, securities financing and collateral optimization, compliance and regulatory reporting, and portfolio accounting and custody-related services. Our core post-trade services help financial institutions efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management and manage risk, thereby enabling them to focus on their core business activities. Provided on a software as a service ( SaaS ) basis within large user communities, our technology is a global solution, processing clearance and settlement in over 100 countries. Our multi-asset, multi-market, multi-entity and multi-currency solutions support real-time global trade processing of equity, fixed income, mutual fund, foreign exchange, and exchange traded derivative s. We process on average over $8 trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of United States of America ( U.S. ) and Canadian securities. Our comprehensive wealth management platform offers capabilities across the entire wealth management lifecycle and streamlines all aspects of wealth management services, including account management, fee management and client on-boarding. The wealth management platform enables full-service, regional and independent broker-dealers and investment advisors to better engage with customers through digital marketing and customer communications tools. We also integrate data, content and technology to drive new customer acquisition, support holistic advice and cross-sell opportunities through the creation of sales and educational content, including seminars as well as customizable advisor websites, search engine marketing and electronic and print newsletters. Our advisor solutions help advisors optimize their practice management through customer and account data aggregation and reporting. We currently support over 200,000 professionals at more than 300 financial firms with our wealth management solutions. We offer buy-side techn ology solutions for the global investment management industry, including portfolio management, compliance and operational workflow solutions for hedge funds, family offices, investment managers and the providers that service this space. Through our Managed Services, we provide business process outsourcing services that support the entire trade lifecycle operations of our buy- and sell-side clients businesses through a combination of our technology and our operations expertise. We also provide support for advisor, investor and compliance workflow. Our Strategy We earn our clients confidence every day by delivering real business value through leading technology-driven solutions that help our clients get ahead of today s challenges and capitalize on future growth opportunities. Our solutions harness people, technology and insights to help transform our clients businesses by enriching customer engagement, navigating risk, optimizing efficiency and growing revenue. As financial institutions look to transform and mutualize their mission-critical but non-differentiating operational and support functions, we have the proven technology, scale, innovation, experience and, most importantly, the clients to achieve this goal and meet their needs. We define our market opportunity in our strong and growing global businesses in both governance and communications and capital markets, with an additional growth platform in wealth and investment management. Our growth strategy is based on the following key components. Our business model. We deliver multi-client technology and managed services primarily through common SaaS-based operations platforms. We increasingly create layers of value by driving network benefits to our clients, providing deep data and analytics solutions, and offering a suite of digital capabilities on a single platform. All of this translates into our core value proposition to be a trusted provider of technology and managed services across a range of analytical, operational and reporting functions. Our SaaS offerings allow our clients to mutualize development expenses and our solutions integrate global data services to provide globally-consistent insight to functions and requirements within the financial services industry. 5 Strong positions in a large and growing financial services market. Our deep industry knowledge enables our clients to successfully solve complex technological challenges, and inspires trust among and brings novel perspectives to our clients. While financial services firms have historically kept much of their technology infrastructure work in-house, there are two significant trends working in favor of Broadridge. In aggregate, financial service firms globally are spending more on technology, and the respective budgets allocated are consistently growing year-over-year. Moreover, these firms are devoting a growing percentage of this spend to third-party technology, operations, and services. Broadridge, as a trusted outside partner, can undertake streamlining and better integrate this infrastructure and processes. We expect the efficiencies that result from such undertaking by Broadridge will lead to growth in the market for our solutions. Three attractive growth platforms. Our growth platforms address important and significant client needs as described below. Through our integrated solutions and services and our scalable infrastructure, we believe we are best positioned to meet them. Governance . We provide a strong network through our governance platform that links broker-dealers, public companies, mutual funds, shareholders, and regulators. We continue to grow our governance solutions by continuing to transform content and delivery and improve product capabilities to drive higher investor engagement. We aim to be an integral partner to asset managers and retirement service providers by offering data-driven solutions that help them grow revenue, reduce costs and maintain compliance. We are also expanding our capabilities to better serve the needs of issuers and we are driving the next generation of digital communications while optimizing print and mail services through advanced technology. Capital Markets . Global institutions have a strong need to simplify their complex technology environment, and our SaaS-based global, multi-asset class technology platform addresses this need. We are driving global post-trade management to create transformation opportunities to simplify our clients operations, improve performance, evolve to global operating models, adopt new technologies, and enable our clients to better manage their data. Wealth Management . Wealth management clients including full-service, regional and independent broker-dealers, investment advisors, insurance companies and retirement solutions providers are all undergoing unprecedented change. These firms are in need of partners to help them navigate the demographic shift of advisors and investors, the large generational transference of wealth and the aging of the client experience and operational technologies that are essential to their business. These market dynamics are driving the need to more seamlessly integrate technology and processes and access to data-centric digital wealth solutions to better service advisors and investors. This can only be achieved by modernizing their core technology infrastructure. To address this need, we have developed a holistic wealth management platform solution that provides seamless systems and data integration capabilities and enables firms to improve advisor productivity, investor experience and operational process efficiencies. On-ramp for next-generation technologies. Our clients understand that next-generation technology is a key driving force for change and efficiency and there is a need among our client base to leverage this technology to address their critical business challenges. However, they face obstacles in creating the right investment and, more importantly, in applying the right talent and intellectual capital, which may be focused on their most differentiating functions. This continues to create opportunities for Broadridge to assist in the areas where we have scale and domain expertise, which includes digital, cloud, blockchain, and artificial intelligence technologies. High engagement and client-centric culture. Broadridge is client-centric and has created and grown multi-entity infrastructures across a variety of functions with high client satisfaction. Broadridge conducts a client satisfaction survey for each of its major business units annually, the results of which are a component of all Broadridge associates compensation because of the importance of client retention to the achievement of Broadridge s revenue goals. We have also built a culture where we focus on having engaged and knowledgeable associates to serve clients well, which in turn creates a real and sustainable advantage. Supporting this excellent client delivery takes engaged associates, and we are passionate about creating an environment in which every associate can thrive and build their knowledge and skills. All of this creates a culture that benefits our associates, our clients, and our stockholders. 6 History and Development of Our Company Broadridge has over 50 years of history in providing innovative solutions to financial services firms and publicly-held companies. We are the former Brokerage Services division of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ( ADP ), which opened for business in 1962 with one client, processing an average of 300 trades per night. In 1979, ADP expanded its U.S.-based securities processing solutions to process Canadian securities. Broadridge was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADP on March 29, 2007 in anticipation of our spin-off from ADP. We spun off from ADP and began operating as an independent public company on March 30, 2007. In January 2019, Timothy C. Gokey succeeded Richard J. Daly as Chief Executive Officer of Broadridge. Investor Communication Solutions We began offering our proxy services in 1989. The proxy services business, which has become our Investor Communication Solutions business, leveraged the information processing systems and infrastructure of our Global Technology and Operations business. Our proxy services offering attracted 31 major clients in its first year of operations. In 1992, we acquired The Independent Election Corporation of America which further increased our proxy services capabilities. By 1999, we were handling over 90% of the investor communication distributions for securities held of record by banks and broker-dealers in the U.S. from proxy statements to annual reports. During the 1990s, we expanded our proxy services business to serve security owners of Canadian and United Kingdom issuers and we began offering a complete outsourced solution for international proxies. In 1994, we began offering ProxyEdge, our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors that helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. In 1998, having previously provided print and distribution services as an accommodation to our securities processing and proxy clients, we began offering account statement and reporting services. In 2001, we developed and released an electronic document distribution and archiving solution of all investor communications. We have made several acquisitions to improve and expand the solutions offered through our Investor Communication Solutions segment. For our asset management clients, we acquired Access Data Corp. in 2009 to build-out our data and analytics offerings. We made additional acquisitions adding new global data, insight, and compliance capabilities for our global asset management clients. We continued to expand our services for asset managers and mutual funds through the acquisition of Matrix, a provider of mutual fund trade processing services for retirement service providers, third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals in 2011. Matrix s operational, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund and exchanged traded funds ( ETFs ) settlement services strengthened Broadridge s role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry. We increased the breadth of Matrix s offerings and enhanced its operational scale through the acquisition of a trade processing business and the acquisition of retirement plan custody and trust assets from TD Ameritrade Trust Company ( TD Ameritrade ), a subsidiary of TD Ameritrade Holding Company. In addition, we expanded our North American fund industry solutions with European fund compliance solutions through the acquisitions of FundAssist Limited ( FundAssist ) and FundsLibrary Limited ( FundsLibrary ). In 2016, we expanded our communications solutions through the acquisition of the North American Customer Communications ( NACC ) business of DST Systems, Inc., which was renamed Broadridge Customer Communications and integrated into our then existing customer communications business. The combination further enhanced our position as a leading provider of print and digital communications. In 2017, we added to our corporate issuer solutions with the acquisition of Summit Financial Disclosure, LLC ( Summit ), a full-service financial document management solutions provider. We integrated Summit s document composition and regulatory filing services with our proxy voting and shareholder communications services to create an end-to-end solution for corporate issuers that spans the entire corporate disclosure lifecycle from private funding, through capital markets transactions and year-round SEC reporting and communications to shareholders. In 2019, we acquired Fi360, Inc. ( Fi360 ) a provider of fiduciary and Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) Regulation Best Interest ( Regulation BI ) solutions for the wealth and retirement industry. Fi360 enhances our retirement solutions by providing wealth and retirement advisors with fiduciary tools that complement our Matrix trust and trading platform. 7 Global Technology and Operations Our Global Technology and Operations business has evolved over the past 50 years from being a processer of U.S. and Canadian securities to a global provider of multi-market, multi-asset class, multi-entity and multi-currency technology solutions and services. This evolution has occurred through a combination of ongoing organic product development and focused acquisitions that have expanded and enhanced the capabilities of our solutions and the markets we serve. We made significant additions to our Global Technology and Operations business through two key acquisitions in the mid-1990s. In 1995, we acquired a London-based provider of multi-currency clearance and settlement services, to become a global supplier of transaction processing services. In 1996, we acquired a provider of institutional fixed income transaction processing systems. Our Managed Services business was launched in 2005 with the acquisition of the Bank of America Corporation s U.S. Clearing and BrokerDealer Services business. Over the years, we have expanded the asset class, geographic and market segment coverage of our Managed Services. Expanded asset classes include futures, over-the-counter derivatives, and non-dollar and fixed income securities. In addition, we added fee billing for all asset classes and we now support asset managers and entities outside the U.S. For our capital markets solutions, we added reconciliations and matching capabilities with the acquisition of CityNetworks Ltd. in 2010. We broadened our global securities financing and collateral management capabilities through the acquisitions of 4sight Financial Software Limited and Anetics, Inc. in 2016. In 2017, we acquired Message Automation Limited, extending our regulatory and compliance capabilities for capital markets firms. Most recently, we acquired Shadow Financial Systems, Inc. ( Shadow Financial ) in 2019, which added a market-ready solution for exchanges, inter-dealer brokers and proprietary trading firms, as well as additional capabilities in exchange traded derivatives and cryptocurrency. For our wealth management solutions, we have made a series of acquisitions that have broadened our suite of wealth-focused technology and advisor communications solutions for broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers and banks. In 2010, we acquired Forefield, Inc., which has been consolidated with Emerald Connect, LLC, acquired in 2014, to provide financial advisors with content and tools to communicate with their customers. In 2016, we acquired M O Systems, Inc., and in 2019 we acquired Financial Database Services, Inc. These acquisitions have made Broadridge the leading provider of advisor compensation management solutions, as well as strengthened our compliance and advisor onboarding capabilities. In 2019, we acquired Rockall Technologies Limited ( Rockall ) and expanded our core front-to-back wealth management capabilities, providing innovative securities-based lending ( SBL ) and collateral management technology solutions to help commercial banks manage risk and optimize clients securities lending and financing needs. In 2019, we acquired RPM Technologies ( RPM ), a Canadian provider of enterprise wealth management software solutions and services. The addition of RPM s state-of-the-art technology platforms builds upon our Canadian wealth management business, providing a solution set for the retail banking sector with enhanced mutual fund and deposit manufacturing capabilities. For our asset management solutions, we expanded our securities processing solutions to service buy-side firms with the acquisition of Paladyne Systems in 2011, a provider of an integrated operational solutions platform that provides hedge funds, hedge fund administrators, and asset management firms with mission critical applications to streamline and manage their businesses. In 2013, we expanded our suite of asset management solutions through the acquisition of Bonaire Software Solutions, LLC, a provider of fee calculation, billing, and revenue and expense management solutions. In 2015, we acquired QED Financial Systems, Inc., a provider of investment accounting and data management solutions to institutional investors and asset management firms. In 2019, we acquired ClearStructure Financial Technology, LLC ( ClearStructure ), a global provider of portfolio management solutions for the private debt markets. The Broadridge Business Investor Communication Solutions The Investor Communication Solutions segment s revenues represented approximately 77% and 80% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively, which gives effect to the foreign exchange impact from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. See Analysis of Reportable Segments Revenues under Item 701. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The services and solutions provided through our Investor Communication Solutions segment serve the following client groups: 8 Banks/Broker-Dealers We handle the entire proxy materials distribution and voting process for our bank and broker-de