ITEM 1. Business 4 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 18 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 26 ITEM 2. Properties 27 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 27 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II. 29 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 ITEM 6. Reserved 31 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 98 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 98 ITEM 9B. Other Information 99 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 99 PART III. 100 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 100 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 100 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 100 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 100 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 100 PART IV. 101 ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 101 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 101 Signatures 101 2 PART I. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. ( Broadridge or the Company ) may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words such as expects, assumes, projects, anticipates, estimates, we believe, could be, on track, and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. In particular, information appearing under Business, Risk Factors, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management s expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include: changes in laws and regulations affecting Broadridge s clients or the services provided by Broadridge; Broadridge s reliance on a relatively small number of clients, the continued financial health of those clients, and the continued use by such clients of Broadridge s services with favorable pricing terms; a material security breach or cybersecurity attack affecting the information of Broadridge s clients; declines in participation and activity in the securities markets; the failure of Broadridge s key service providers to provide the anticipated levels of service; a disaster or other significant slowdown or failure of Broadridge s systems or error in the performance of Broadridge s services; overall market, economic and geopolitical conditions and their impact on the securities markets; the success of Broadridge in retaining and selling additional services to its existing clients and in obtaining new clients; Broadridge s failure to keep pace with changes in technology and demands of its clients; competitive conditions; Broadridge s ability to attract and retain key personnel; and the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures. There may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. We can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will occur or, if any of them do, what impact they will have on our results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the factors described in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of certain risks that could, among other things, cause our actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, other than as required by law. 3 ITEM 1. Business The Broadridge Business Broadridge, a Delaware corporation and a part of the S P 500 Index ( S P ), is a global financial technology leader powering investing, corporate governance, and communications. We deliver technology-driven solutions to banks, broker-dealers, asset and wealth managers, public companies, investors, and mutual funds, that enable our clients to operate, innovate and grow. Our trusted expertise and transformative technology provide the infrastructure and data to help improve our clients business performance and operational efficiency and modernize the investor experience. We operate our business in two reportable segments: Investor Communication Solutions and Global Technology and Operations. Investor Communication Solutions Our Regulatory Solutions, Data-Driven Fund Solutions, Corporate Issuer Solutions, and Customer Communications Solutions are provided as part of the Investor Communication Solutions segment. The Investor Communication Solutions segment is the larger of our two business segments and its revenues represented approximately 75% and 75% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively, including the foreign exchange impact from revenues generated in currencies other than the United States of America ( U.S. ) dollar. See Analysis of Reportable Segments Revenues under Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We provide the following services and solutions through our Investor Communication Solutions segment: Regulatory Solutions We handle the entire proxy materials distribution and voting process for our bank, broker-dealer, corporate issuer and fund clients. We offer electronic and traditional hard copy services for the delivery of proxy materials to investors and collection of consents; maintenance of a rules engine and database that contains the delivery method preferences of our clients customers; posting of documents on their websites; email notification to investors alerting them that proxy materials are available; and proxy voting via paper, telephone, online or mobile app. We have the ability to combine stockholder communications for multiple stockholders residing at the same address which we accomplish by having ascertained the delivery preferences of investors. We also offer proxy vote solicitation services for the registered clients of fund companies, efficiently managing the entire proxy campaign. In addition, we provide a complete outsourced solution for the processing of all international institutional and retail proxies, including shareholder disclosure management. A majority of publicly-traded shares are not registered in companies records in the names of their ultimate beneficial owners. Instead, a substantial majority of all public companies shares are held in street name, meaning that they are held of record by broker-dealers or banks through their depositories. Most street name shares are registered in the name Cede Co., the name used by The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation ( DTCC ), which holds shares on behalf of its participant broker-dealers and banks. These participant broker-dealers and banks (which are known as Nominees because they hold securities in name only) in turn hold the shares on behalf of their customers, the individual beneficial owners. Nominees, upon request, are required to provide companies with the information of beneficial owners who do not object to having their names, addresses, and shareholdings supplied to companies, so called non-objecting beneficial owners (or NOBOs ). Objecting beneficial owners (or OBOs ) may be contacted directly only by the broker-dealer or bank. As DTCC s role is only as the custodian, a number of mechanisms have been developed in order to pass the legal rights it holds as the record owner (such as the right to vote) to the beneficial owners. The first step in passing voting rights down the chain is the omnibus proxy, which DTCC executes to transfer its voting rights to its participant Nominees. Under applicable rules, Nominees must deliver proxy materials to beneficial owners and request voting instructions. 4 Given the large number of Nominees involved in the beneficial proxy process resulting from the large number of beneficial shareholders, we play a unique, central, and integral role in ensuring that the beneficial proxy process occurs without issue for Nominees, companies, funds, and investors. A large number of Nominees have contracted out the processes of distributing proxy materials and tabulating voting instructions to us. Nominees accomplish this by entering into agreements with Broadridge and transferring to us via powers of attorney the authority to execute a proxy, which authority the Nominee receives from the DTCC via an omnibus proxy. Through our agreements with Nominees for the provision of beneficial proxy services, we take on the responsibility of ensuring that the account holders of Nominees receive proxy materials on a timely basis digitally or in print, that their voting instructions are conveyed to the companies and funds conducting solicitations and that these services are fulfilled in accordance with the requirements of their particular solicitation. In order for us to provide the beneficial proxy services effectively, we interface and coordinate directly with each company and/or fund to ensure that the services are performed in an accurate and timely manner. As it would increase the costs for companies and funds to work with all of the Nominees through which their shares are held beneficially, companies and funds work with us for the performance of all the tasks and processes necessary to ensure that proxy materials are distributed on a timely basis to all beneficial owners and that their votes are accurately reported. The SEC s rules require public companies to reimburse Nominees for the expense of distributing stockholder communications to beneficial owners of securities held in street name. The reimbursement rates are set forth in the rules of self-regulatory organizations ( SROs ), including the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ). We bill public companies for the proxy services performed, collect the fees, and remit to the Nominee its portion of the fees. In addition, the NYSE rules establish fees for certain services provided by intermediaries such as Broadridge in the proxy process. The preparation and delivery of NOBO information is subject to reimbursement by the corporate issuers requesting the information. The reimbursement rates are based on the number of NOBOs produced pursuant to NYSE or other SRO rules. The rules also determine the fees to be paid to third-party intermediaries, such as Broadridge, who compile the NOBO information on behalf of Nominees who need to respond to corporate issuer requests for NOBO information. We provide institutional investors with a suite of services to manage and track the entire proxy voting process, including meeting their reporting needs. ProxyEdge ( ProxyEdge ) is our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors and financial advisors that integrates ballots for positions held across multiple custodians and presents them under a single proxy. Voting can be instructed for the entire position, by account vote group, or on an individual account basis either manually or automatically based on the recommendations of participating governance research providers. ProxyEdge also provides for client reporting and regulatory reporting. ProxyEdge can be utilized for meetings of U.S. and Canadian companies and for meetings in many non-North American countries based on the holdings of our global custodian clients. ProxyEdge is offered in several languages and there are currently over 7,000 ProxyEdge users worldwide. In addition to our proxy services, we provide regulatory communications solutions that enable global asset managers to communicate with large audiences of investors efficiently and reliably by centralizing all investor communications through one resource. We provide composition, printing, filing, and distribution services for regulatory reports, prospectuses, and proxy materials, as well as mutual fund proxy solicitation services. We manage the entire communications process with both registered and beneficial stockholders and provide a complete platform for creating and distributing regulatory investor communications across multiple channels, including print, e-delivery, online, and mobile. These services include prospectus delivery and the distribution of annual and semi-annual shareholder reports. Our clients have the ability to create and distribute these communications via print, e-delivery, online, and mobile. In addition to our fund solutions, we also provide a range of other regulatory communications solutions, including reorganization communications notifying investors of U.S. reorganizations or corporate action events such as tender offers, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcies, and global class action services for the identification, filing and recovery of class actions and collective redress proceedings involving securities and other financial products. Our pass-through voting solutions support fund clients in providing individual investors the ability to participate in the proxy voting process, helping them to expand their investor engagement efforts and receive valuable input for important investment decisions. Broadridge s institutional solution helps asset managers split the vote in portfolio companies and pass directly to institutional investors on a proportional basis. For retail investors, our solutions allow funds to poll their investors on voting preferences and provides investors the ability to give voting instructions, set standard voting preferences, or potentially cast a vote at pre-determined meetings. In addition, we provide international corporate governance solutions addressing our clients needs within Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ) and the Asia-Pacific ( APAC ) region. These solutions include institutional and retail global proxy services and shareholder data and analytics. Our international solutions help clients sharpen focus on their core businesses while helping them maintain global regulatory compliance, reduce costs, improve efficiency and gain data insights. 5 Data-Driven Fund Solutions We provide a full range of data-driven solutions that help our asset management and retirement service provider clients grow revenue, operate efficiently, and maintain compliance. Our data and analytics solutions provide investment product distribution data, predictive modeling, analytical tools, and insights and research to enable asset managers to optimize product distribution across retail and institutional channels globally. We also provide fiduciary-focused learning and development, software and technology, and data and analytics services to advisors, institutions and asset managers across the retirement and wealth ecosystem. Through our Fund Communication Solutions business, we provide fund managers with a single, integrated provider to manage data, perform calculations, compose documents, manage regulatory compliance, and disseminate information across multiple jurisdictions. Our solutions help fund managers increase distribution opportunities, comply with both United Kingdom and European Union regulations such as Solvency II and MiFID II, and make information easily accessible for investors in a digital format. We also provide support to fund managers with document and data dissemination in the European market. This enables the receipt by distributors and investors of complete, accurate, and timely information supporting fund sales. Through our Retirement and Workplace Solutions business ( Broadridge Retirement and Workplace ), we provide automated mutual fund and exchange-traded funds trade processing services for financial institutions that submit trades on behalf of their clients such as qualified and non-qualified retirement plans and individual wealth accounts. Our trust, trading and settlement services are integrated into our product suite thereby strengthening Broadridge s role as a provider of insight, technology, and business process outsourcing to the asset management, wealth, and retirement industry. In addition, our marketing and transactional communications solutions provide a content management and omni-channel distribution platform for marketing and sales communications for asset managers, insurance providers and retirement service providers. Corporate Issuer Solutions We provide governance and communications services to corporate issuers supporting a full range of public company functions, including the annual meeting of stockholders, SEC reporting, capital markets transactions, transfer agency, shareholder engagement, and ESG solutions. Our services provide corporate issuers a single source solution that spans the entire corporate disclosure and shareholder communications lifecycle. Our governance and communications services include a full suite of annual meeting and shareholder engagement solutions: Proxy services we provide complete project management for the entire annual meeting process including registered and beneficial proxy materials distribution, vote processing, and tabulation through our ShareLink solution. Virtual Shareholder Meeting electronic annual meetings via webcast, either on a stand-alone basis, or in conjunction with in-person annual meetings, including shareholder validation and voting services and the ability for shareholders to ask questions and for management to respond during the meetings. We offer tools for corporate issuers to help them better engage with their shareholders and other stakeholders in connection with the annual meeting process as well as on an ongoing basis throughout the year. These services provide aggregated shareholder data and analytics, shareholder delivery preferences, and voting trends. Our ESG services provide consulting in support of issuers and their ESG journey. The services include peer ESG disclosure benchmarking, ESG strategy and policy development, greenhouse gas emission assessments, and ESG and sustainability report content development. We also offer an ESG dashboard that provides ESG consensus ratings to allow corporate issuers to assess the progress of their ESG ratings and disclosure relative to their selection of peer companies. Our disclosure solutions provide compliance reporting and transactional reporting services for public companies, including the following: SEC Filing Services: proxy and annual report design and digitization, SEC filing, printing, and web hosting services, as well as year-round SEC reporting including document composition, EDGARization and XBRL tagging. Capital Markets Transactional Services: typesetting, composition, printing, and SEC filing services for capital markets transactions such as initial public offerings, spin-offs, acquisitions, and securities offerings. In addition, we provide transaction support services such as virtual deal rooms and translation services. 6 We also provide registrar, stock transfer, and record-keeping services through our transfer agency services. Our transfer agency services address the needs public companies have for more efficient and reliable stockholder record maintenance and communication services. In addition, we provide corporate actions services, including acting as the exchange agent, paying agent, or tender agent in support of acquisitions, initial public offerings, and other significant corporate transactions. We also provide abandoned property compliance and reporting services. Customer Communications Solutions We support financial services, healthcare, insurance, consumer finance, telecommunications, utilities, and other service industries with their omni-channel customer communications management strategies for transactional communications, such as statements and bills, marketing communications, such as personalized microsites and campaigns, and regulatory communications, such as trade confirmations and explanation of benefits. These services include digital and physical delivery of critical communications. Our physical delivery services operate through a network of seven highly automated facilities across North America. The Broadridge Communications Cloud SM is an omni-channel platform (the Communications Cloud ) that provides our clients the flexibility to implement only the modules and delivery channels needed to address their specific communication needs. The platform s open application programming interfaces and self-servicing tools help our clients improve their communications systems efficiency and productivity. Through the Communications Cloud, our clients can: develop transactional, regulatory, and marketing communications with relevant, self-service content that drives customer action; deliver customer communications across print, digital, email, short message service ( SMS ) and emerging channels, such as interactive microsites and personal cloud services, with one connection; and gain comprehensive reporting and analytics to improve communications and increase engagement based on customer behaviors. Global Technology and Operations Transactions involving securities and other financial market instruments can, for example, originate with an institutional or retail investor who places an order with a broker who in turn routes that order to an appropriate market for execution. At that point, the parties to the transaction coordinate payment and settlement of the transaction through a clearinghouse. The records of the parties involved must then be updated to reflect completion of the transaction. The transaction must comply with tax, custody, accounting, and record-keeping requirements, and the customer s account information must correctly reflect the transaction. The accurate processing of trading activity from its initial inception and custody activity requires effective automation and information flow across multiple systems and functions within the firm and across the systems of the various parties that participate in the execution of a transaction. 7 Our Global Technology and Operations business provides the non-differentiating yet mission-critical infrastructure to the global financial markets. As a leading software as a service ( SaaS ) provider, we offer capital markets and wealth and investment management firms modern technology to enable growth, simplify their technology stacks, and mutualize costs. Our highly scalable, resilient, component-based solutions automate the front-to-back transaction lifecycle of equity, mutual fund, fixed income, foreign exchange and exchange-traded derivatives, from order capture and execution through trade confirmation, margin, cash management, clearing and settlement, reference data management, reconciliations, securities financing and collateral management, asset servicing, compliance and regulatory reporting, portfolio accounting and custody-related services. Our Wealth Management business provides solutions for advisors and investors and streamlines back- and middle-office operations for broker-dealers by providing systems for critical post-trade activities, including books and records, transaction processing, clearance and settlement, and reporting. Our Investment Management business provides portfolio and order management solutions for traditional and alternative asset managers, which bring insights into trading, portfolio construction, risk, and analytics. Our solutions connect asset managers to a global network of broker-dealers for trade execution and post-trade matching and confirmation. In addition, we provide business process outsourcing services for our buy- and sell-side clients businesses. These services combine our technology with our operations expertise to support the entire trade lifecycle, including securities clearing and settlement, reconciliations, record-keeping, wealth management asset servicing, and custody-related functions. The Global Technology and Operations segment s revenues represented approximately 25% and 25% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively, which gives effect to the foreign exchange impact from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. See Analysis of Reportable Segments Revenues under Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Services and solutions offered through the Global Technology and Operations segment include the following: Capital Markets Solutions Our capital markets technology and our solutions deliver simplification and innovation across the trade lifecycle, from order initiation to settlement. Largely provided on a SaaS basis within large user communities, Broadridge s technology is a global solution, processing trades, clearance and settlement in over 100 countries. Our technology enables our clients to meet the requirements of market change such as the T+1 securities settlement cycle. Our solutions enable global capital markets firms to access market liquidity, driving more effective market making and efficient front-to-back trade processing. These services include reference data management, securities financing, securities-based lending, collateral management, trade and transaction reporting, reconciliations, financial messaging, and asset servicing. Our solutions can be deployed as a complete solution as well as discrete components supporting financial institutions. Through Broadridge Trading and Connectivity Solutions , we offer a set of global front-office trade order and execution management systems and connectivity solutions that enable market participants to connect and trade. Our front-office solutions, post-trade product suite and other capital markets capabilities enable our clients to streamline their front-to-back technology platforms and operations and increase straight-through-processing efficiencies, across equities, fixed income, exchange-traded derivatives, and other asset classes. We also provide a set of multi-asset, multi-entity and multi-currency trading, connectivity and post-trade solutions that support processing of securities transactions in equities, options, fixed income securities, foreign exchange, exchange-traded derivatives and mutual funds. In addition, we provide comprehensive fixed income transaction processing capabilities to support clearance, settlement, custody, P L reporting, and regulatory reporting for domestic and foreign fixed income instruments. Our solution includes extensive support for mortgage-backed securities and other structured products. It is a multi-currency, multi-entity solution that provides position and balance information, in addition to detailed accounting, financing, collateral management, and repurchase agreement functionality. The solution offers straight-through-processing capabilities, enterprise-wide integration, and a robust technology infrastructure - all focused on supporting firms specializing in the fixed income marketplace. Wealth and Investment Management Solutions Our Wealth Management business delivers technology solutions, critical data, and digital marketing services to enable full-service, regional, and independent broker-dealers and investment advisors to better engage with customers to help grow their business. Our wealth solutions are designed to help optimize advisor productivity, improve investor outcomes, digitize operations, reduce friction in investing, increase financial literacy, and deliver more personalized advice and insights. 8 With respect to technology solutions, we offer an integrated, modern open-architecture wealth management platform through which we provide enhanced data-centric capabilities to improve the overall client experience across the entire front-, middle- and back-office wealth management lifecycle, including advisor, investor, and operational workflows. This comprehensive wealth management platform streamlines all aspects of the service model, allowing our clients to digitally onboard customers, manage advisor compensation for multiple products and service models, and seamlessly transfer and service accounts. In addition, we provide data-driven, digital solutions to broker-dealers, financial advisors, insurers, and other firms with large, distributed salesforces. Our data aggregation solution helps financial advisors manage and build client relationships by providing customer account data aggregation, performance reporting, household grouping, automated report creation, document storage, and integration with popular financial planning and productivity applications. Our digital marketing and content capabilities leverage analytics and machine-learning to enable financial advisors and wealth management firms to grow their businesses and deepen relationships with their customers. Financial advisors and wealth management firms can tap into our digital tools and library of omni-channel content to personalize touchpoints to engage their customers and prospects across digital channels including websites, social media, email, and mobile. Our Investment Management business ser