Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 22 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Part II 25 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Reserved 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 Part III 87 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 88 Part IV 89 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 89 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Signatures 92 2 Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Brown Brown, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, we, Brown Brown or the Company ), makes forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, throughout this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference into this report. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as may, will, should, expect, anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, plan and continue or similar words. We have based these statements on our current expectations about potential future events. Although we believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the reports, statements, information and announcements incorporated by reference into this report are based upon reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of our business, a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been identified in filings or statements made by us or on our behalf. Important factors which could cause our actual results to differ, possibly materially from the forward-looking statements in this report include but are not limited to the following items, in addition to those matters described in Part I, Item 2 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations : The inability to hire, retain and develop qualified employees, as well as the loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees; A cybersecurity attack or any other interruption in information technology and/or data security that may impact our operations or the operations of third parties that support us; Acquisition-related risks that could negatively affect the success of our growth strategy, including the possibility that we may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations and expand into new markets; Risks related to our international operations, which may result in additional risks or require more management time and expense than our domestic operations to achieve or maintain profitability; The requirement for additional resources and time to adequately respond to dynamics resulting from rapid technological change; The loss of or significant change to any of our insurance company relationships, which could result in loss of capacity to write business, additional expense, loss of market share or material decrease in our commissions; The effect of natural disasters on our profit-sharing contingent commissions, insurer capacity or claims expenses within our capitalized captive insurance facilities; Adverse economic conditions, political conditions, outbreaks of war, disasters, or regulatory changes in states or countries where we have a concentration of our business; The inability to maintain our culture or a significant change in management, management philosophy or our business strategy; Fluctuations in our commission revenue as a result of factors outside of our control; The effects of sustained inflation or higher interest rates; Claims expense resulting from the limited underwriting risk associated with our participation in capitalized captive insurance facilities; Risks associated with our automobile and recreational vehicle dealer services ( F I ) businesses; Changes in, or the termination of, certain programs administered by the U.S. federal government from which we derive revenues; The limitations of our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures in preventing errors or fraud, or in informing management of all material information in a timely manner; The significant control certain shareholders have over the Company; Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations; Improper disclosure of confidential information; Our ability to comply with non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies; The potential adverse effect of certain actual or potential claims, regulatory actions or proceedings on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity; 3 Uncertainty in our business practices and compensation arrangements with insurance carriers due to potential changes in regulations; Regulatory changes that could reduce our profitability or growth by increasing compliance costs, technology compliance, restricting the products or services we may sell, the markets we may enter, the methods by which we may sell our products and services, or the prices we may charge for our services and the form of compensation we may accept from our customers, carriers and third parties; Increasing scrutiny and changing laws and expectations from regulators, investors and customers with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices and disclosure; A decrease in demand for liability insurance as a result of tort reform legislation; Our failure to comply with any covenants contained in our debt agreements; The possibility that covenants in our debt agreements could prevent us from engaging in certain potentially beneficial activities; Changes in the U.S.-based credit markets that might adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition; Changes in current U.S. or global economic conditions, including an extended slowdown in the markets in which we operate; Disintermediation within the insurance industry, including increased competition from insurance companies, technology companies and the financial services industry, as well as the shift away from traditional insurance markets; Conditions that result in reduced insurer capacity; Quarterly and annual variations in our commissions that result from the timing of policy renewals and the net effect of new and lost business production; Intangible asset risk, including the possibility that our goodwill may become impaired in the future; Future pandemics, epidemics or outbreaks of infectious diseases, and the resulting governmental and societal responses; Other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) filings; and Other factors that the Company may not have currently identified or quantified. Assumptions as to any of the foregoing, and all statements, are not based upon historical fact, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based upon a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors listed above, among others, actual results may differ from those in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, these cautionary statements qualify all of the forward-looking statements we make herein. We cannot assure you that the results or developments anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business or our operations in the way we expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made herein are made only as of the date of this filing, the Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur or of which the Company hereafter becomes aware. 4 PAR T I ITEM 1. B usiness. General Brown Brown is a diversified insurance agency, wholesale brokerage, insurance programs and service organization with origins dating from 1939 and is headquartered in Daytona Beach, Florida. The Company markets and sells insurance products and services, primarily in the property, casualty and employee benefits areas. We provide our customers with quality, non-investment insurance contracts, as well as other targeted, customized risk management products and services. We primarily operate as an agent or broker and therefore, with limited exceptions, do not assume underwriting risks. Within The Wright Insurance Group, LLC ( Wright ), we operate a write-your-own flood insurance carrier, Wright National Flood Insurance Company ( WNFIC ). WNFIC s underwriting business consists of policies written pursuant to the National Flood Insurance Program ( NFIP ), the program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ). We also sell excess flood policies which are fully reinsured, thereby substantially eliminating WNFIC s exposure to underwriting risk, as these policies are backed by either FEMA or a reinsurance carrier with an AM Best Company rating of A or better. We also participate in capitalized captive insurance facilities (the "Captives") for the purpose of providing additional capacity to place coverage, deliver revenues, and participate in underwriting results. The Company has traditionally participated in underwriting profits through profit-sharing contingent commissions. The Captives give us another way to continue to participate in underwriting results, while limiting exposure to underwriting claim costs. The Captives focus on property insurance for earthquake and wind exposed properties underwritten by certain of our managing general underwriters ( MGUs ). The Captives limit, but do not fully eliminate the Company's exposure to claims expenses either through reinsurance or by only participating in limited tranches of the underwriting results. The Company is compensated for its services primarily by commissions paid by insurance companies, and to a lesser extent, by fees paid directly by customers for certain services. Commission revenues are generally a percentage of the premium paid by the insured and typically depend upon the type of insurance, the particular insurance company and the nature of the services provided by us. In some limited cases, we share commissions with other agents or brokers who have acted jointly with us in a transaction and we recognize commissions net of any commissions paid to other intermediaries. We may also receive from an insurance company a profit-sharing contingent commission, which is a supplemental commission based primarily on underwriting results. Fee revenues are generated by: (i) our Services segment, which provides insurance-related services, including third-party claims administration and comprehensive medical utilization management services in both the workers compensation and all-lines liability arenas, as well as Medicare Set-aside services, Social Security disability and Medicare benefits advocacy services, and other claims adjusting services, (ii) our National Programs and Wholesale Brokerage segments, which earn fees primarily for the issuing of insurance policies on behalf of insurance carriers, and (iii) our Retail segment for fees received in lieu of commissions or for other services provided. The amount of our revenues from commissions and fees is a function of several factors, including continued new business production, retention of existing customers, acquisitions and fluctuations in insurance premium rates and insurable exposure units, which are units that insurance companies use to measure or express insurance exposed to risk (such as property values, sales and payroll levels) to determine what premium to charge the insured. Insurance companies establish these premium rates based upon many factors, including loss experience, risk profile and reinsurance rates paid by such insurance companies, none of which we control. As of December 31, 2023, our activities were conducted in 322 domestic locations in 46 states, and 177 international locations in Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, Cayman Islands, France, Germany, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China ( Hong Kong ), Republic of Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Segment Information Our business is divided into four reportable segments: (i) the Retail segment, (ii) the National Programs segment, (iii) the Wholesale Brokerage segment and (iv) the Services segment. The Retail segment provides a broad range of insurance products and services to commercial, public and quasi-public entities, and to professional and individual customers, as well as non-insurance warranty services and products through our F I businesses. The National Programs segment, which acts as an MGU, provides professional liability and related package products for certain professionals, a range of insurance products for individuals, flood coverage, and targeted products and services designated for specific industries, trade groups, governmental entities and market niches, all of which are delivered through a nationwide network of independent agents, including Brown Brown retail agents, as well as affinity groups, wholesale entities and sold direct to consumers. The Wholesale Brokerage segment markets and sells excess and surplus commercial and personal lines insurance, primarily through a nationwide network of independent agents and brokers, including Brown Brown retail agents. The Services segment provides insurance-related services, including third-party claims administration and adjusting services, comprehensive medical utilization management services in both the workers compensation and all-lines liability arenas, as well as Medicare Set-aside services and Social Security disability benefits advocacy services. As announced on October 31, 2023 and completed in the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company sold certain third-party claims administration and adjusting services businesses representing approximately 50% of the total revenues of the Services segment to Davies Group Ltd. As a result, beginning in fiscal year 2024 the Company will operate three segments: Retail, Programs (formerly National Programs), and Wholesale. Historical results will be recast to align with the three-segment structure with the remaining businesses to be included as part of the Retail segment. The Company performed an evaluation to determine if the sold businesses should be reported as 5 discontinued operations. However, with the sold businesses representing, as a percentage of total Company, approximately 3% of the total revenue, 2% of the total assets and 2% of net income, the Company determined that treating the sale as discontinued operations was not appropriate. The following table summarizes (i) the commissions and fees generated by each of our reportable operating segments for 2023, 2022, and 2021 and (ii) the percentage of our total commissions and fees represented by each segment for each such period: (in millions, except percentages) 2023 % 2022 % 2021 % Retail segment $ 2,434.7 58.0 % $ 2,081.6 58.4 % $ 1,766.6 58.0 % National Programs segment 1,064.3 25.3 % 858.1 24.1 % 701.1 23.0 % Wholesale Brokerage segment 539.0 12.8 % 452.8 12.7 % 402.6 13.2 % Services segment 163.1 3.9 % 171.9 4.8 % 178.9 5.9 % Other (1.7 ) ( )% (1.2 ) ( )% (1.7 ) (0.1 )% Total $ 4,199.4 100.0 % $ 3,563.2 100.0 % $ 3,047.5 100.0 % The majority of our operations are in the United States. Outside of the United States we have retail operations based in Bermuda, Canada, Cayman Islands, Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom, managing general underwriter operations in Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom; and wholesale brokerage operations based in Belgium, Hong Kong, Italy and the United Kingdom. These operations generated $527.0 million, $240.6 million and $78.0 million of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We do not have any material foreign long-lived assets. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional segment financial data relating to our business. Retail segment The Retail segment provides a broad range of insurance products and services to commercial, public and quasi-public, professional and individual insured customers, and non-insurance services and products through our automobile dealer services F I businesses. Significant lines of coverage and capabilities are: Property Casualty Employee Benefits Personal Insurance Property Group Health Homeowners Casualty Voluntary Benefits Automobile Workers' Compensation Pharmacy Benefits Personal Excess Liability Surety Independent Retirement Flood and Excess Liability Aviation International Benefits Flood and Excess Flood Private Equity/Mergers Acquisitions Employer Stop Loss Specialized Coverages Executive Liability Long Term Care Group Excess Cyber Risk Multinational Property Casualty - Capabilities Employee Benefits - Capabilities Specialties Analytics Benefit Design Delivery Dealer Services Modeling Financial Strategy Analytics Specialty Risk Solutions Risk Services Regulatory Legislative Strategy Tribal Nations Alternative Risk/Captives Technology Services Total Rewards Compensation Specialty Risk Solutions Population Health Well-Being Strategic Non-Medical Solutions Private Equity/Mergers Acquisitions No material part of our Retail segment is attributable to a single customer or a few customers. During 2023, commissions and fees from our largest single Retail segment customer represented 0.8% of the Retail segment s total commissions and fees. As of December 31, 2023, our Retail segment employed 9,705 employees. Our Retail segment has physical locations in 42 states plus Bermuda, Canada, Cayman Islands, Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom. In connection with selling and marketing of insurance 6 coverages, we provide a broad range of related services to our customers, such as risk management strategies, loss control surveys and analysis, consultation in connection with placing insurance coverages and claims processing. National Programs segment As of December 31, 2023, our National Programs segment employed 3,743 employees. Our National Programs segment has physical locations in 20 states plus Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. The National Programs segment specializes in the development, underwriting and management of insurance program business, often designed for niche, underserved markets and distributes these coverages to retail agencies (including Brown Brown retail offices), as well as affinity groups, wholesale entities and sold direct to consumers. Our largest National Programs segment customer represented approximately 8.1% of the segment's total commissions and fees. We offer program management expertise for insurance carrier partners across numerous lines of business, which can be grouped into five broad categories as detailed below: Professional programs. Professional liability and related package insurance products are tailored to the needs of professionals in the following areas: dentistry, legal, eyecare, insurance, financial, physicians and real estate title professionals. Professional liability programs also offer supplementary insurance-related products to include weddings, events, medical facilities and cyber liability. Personal Lines programs. Personal lines programs offer a variety of insurance products to personal lines consumers including homeowners and personal property policies; residential earthquake; private passenger automobile and motorcycle coverage, which is currently in run-off. Commercial Lines programs. Specific industries and market niches are served by our commercial programs including automotive aftermarket, professional and amateur sports, special events and the entertainment industry; commercial transportation and trucking; forestry; manufactured housing; and workers compensation. The Arrowhead Core Commercial program which covered a broad segment of industries is currently in run-off. Public Entity programs. Public entity programs range from providing fully insured programs to establishing risk retention insurance pools, and excess and facultative specific coverages, including administration of various insurance trusts for cities, counties, municipalities, school boards, special taxing districts and quasi-governmental agencies. Specialty programs. Specialty programs include flood insurance, commercial difference-in-conditions (earthquake), all-risk commercial property, limited exposure captives, coastal property programs including wind, lender-placed solutions, sovereign native-American nations and parcel insurance. Wholesale Brokerage segment As of December 31, 2023, our Wholesale Brokerage segment employed 1,918 employees. Our Wholesale Brokerage segment has physical locations in 22 states plus Belgium, Hong Kong, Italy and the United Kingdom. Our Wholesale Brokerage segment markets and sells excess and surplus commercial insurance products and services to retail insurance agencies (including Brown Brown retail offices). The Wholesale Brokerage segment represents various U.S., U.K., and European surplus lines insurance companies. Additionally, certain offices are also Lloyd s of London correspondents. The Wholesale Brokerage segment also represents admitted insurance companies for purposes of affording access to such companies for smaller agencies that otherwise do not have access to large insurance company representation. Excess and surplus insurance products encompass many insurance coverages, including personal lines, homeowners, yachts, jewelry, commercial property and casualty, commercial automobile, garage, restaurant, builder s risk and inland marine lines. Difficult-to-insure general liability and products liability coverages are a specialty, as is excess workers compensation coverage. During 2023, commissions and fees from our largest Wholesale Brokerage segment customer represented approximately 1.3% of the Wholesale Brokerage segment s total commissions and fees. Services segment As of December 31, 2023, our Services segment employed 398 employees and provided a variety of insurance-related services. The two businesses listed below were not part of the sale of certain businesses to Davies Group Ltd. in the fourth quarter of 2023. In 2024, the financial results of these businesses, along with their historical financial results, will be included in the Retail segment. Social Security Advocacy and Advisory. Social Security advocacy assists individuals throughout the United States who are seeking to establish eligibility for coverage under the federal Social Security Disability program and provides health plan selection and enrollment assistance for Medicare beneficiaries. We work closely with employer sponsored group life, disability and health plan participants to assist disabled individuals in receiving the education, advocacy and benefit coordination assistance necessary to achieve the fastest possible benefit approvals. In addition, we provide second injury fund recovery services to the workers compensation insurance market. Medicare Secondary Payer compliance and Medicare Set-Aside. Medicare secondary payer compliance and Medicare Set-aside provides statutory compliance services, conditional payment negotiation and resolution, structured settlements/annuity funding, professional administration and a post-settlement durable medical equipment and pharmacy program administration. 7 The following businesses were sold to Davies Group Ltd. in the fourth quarter of 2023. In 2024 the historical results associated with these businesses will be included within the Programs (formerly National Programs) segment. The Company performed an evaluation to determine if the sold businesses should be reported as discontinued operations. However, with the sold businesses representing, as a percentage of total Company, approximately 3% of the total revenue, 2% of the total assets and 2% of net income, the Company determined that treating the sale as discontinued operations was not appropriate. Claims Administration. Claims administration provides third-party administration ( TPA ) services for commercial and personal property and casualty, medical, vocational, and professional liability insurance markets on a nationwide basis, providing claims adjusting, administration, subrogation, litigation and data management, claims investigations services, claim investigations, and audit services to insurance companies, self-insureds, public municipalities, insurance brokers and corporate entities. We source claims activity from various Arrowhead programs in our National Programs segment, as well as from third parties. Self-Insured Trust Administration. Self-insured trust administration provides TPA services for government entities and self-funded or fully-insured workers compensation and liability plans and trusts including claims administration and a dedicated subrogation recovery department. Workers Compensation and Liability Plan Administration. Workers compensation and liability plan administration provides claims administration, cost containment consulting services for secondary disability and subrogation recoveries, certified and non-certified medical management programs, access to medical networks, case management, utilization review services and risk management services such as loss control. In 2023, our five largest contracts represented approximately 38.8% of fee revenues in our Services segment. Competition The insurance intermediary business is highly competitive, and numerous firms actively compete with us for customers and insurance markets. Competition in the insurance business is largely based upon innovation, knowledge, understanding of terms and conditions of coverage, quality of service and price. A number of firms with substantially greater resources and market presence compete with us. A number of insurance companies directly sell insurance, primarily to individuals or small enterprises, and as a result do not pay commissions to third-party agents and brokers. In addition, internet and startup technology companies continue to be a source for direct placement of personal lines or small business insurance. We have our own technology capabilities to also serve personal lines and small businesses. While it is difficult to quantify the impact on our business from individuals or small businesses purchasing insurance over the internet, we believe this risk would generally be isolated to personal lines customers with single-line coverage, or small businesses that do not have a complex insurance program, which represent a small portion of our overall Retail or National Programs segments. Regulation, Licensing and Agency Contracts We and/or our designated employees must generally be licensed to act as agents, brokers, intermediaries or third-party administrators by regulatory authorities in the locations in which we conduct business. Regulations and licensing laws vary by individual state and international location and are often complex. The applicable licensing laws and regulations in all states and international jurisdictions are subject to amendment or reinterpretation by regulatory authorities, which in most cases have broad discretion as to the granting, revocation, suspension and renewal of licenses. We endeavor to monitor the licensing status of our employees, but the possibility exists that we and/or our employees could be excluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities in a particular jurisdiction in addition to being subjected to fines. Human Capital At December 31, 2023, the Company had 16,152 employees globally. We have agreements with our sales employees and certain other employees that include provisions that (i) protect our confidential information and trade secrets, (ii) restrict their ability post-employment to solicit the business of our customers, and (iii) prevent them from hiring of our employees for a period of time after separation from employment with us. The enforceability of such agreements varies from state to state depending upon applicable law and factual circumstances. The majority of our employment relationships are at-will and terminable by either party at any time; however, the covenants regarding confidential information and non-solicitation of our customers and employees generally extend for a period of at least two years after 