ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 32 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 32 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 32 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 32 PART II 33 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 33 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 35 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 36 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 61 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 65 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 131 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 131 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 131 PART III 132 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 132 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 132 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 132 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 132 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 132 PART IV 133 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 133 SIGNATURES 145 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Boston Scientific Corporation is a global developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. Our mission is to transform lives through innovative medical solutions that improve the health of patients around the world. As a medical technology leader for nearly 40 years, we advance science for life by providing a broad range of high performance solutions to address unmet patient needs and reduce the cost of healthcare. When used in this report, the terms "we," "us," "our" and "the Company" mean Boston Scientific Corporation and its divisions and subsidiaries. Our history began in the late 1960s when our co-founder, John Abele, acquired an equity interest in Medi-tech, Inc., a research and development company focused on developing alternatives to surgery. In 1969, Medi-tech introduced a family of steerable catheters used in some of the world's first less-invasive procedures. In 1979, John Abele joined with Pete Nicholas to form Boston Scientific Corporation, which indirectly acquired Medi-tech. This acquisition began a period of active and focused new product development, innovation, market development and organizational growth. Since then, we have advanced the practice of less-invasive medicine by helping physicians and other medical professionals diagnose and treat a wide range of diseases and medical conditions and improve patients quality of life by providing alternatives to surgery and other medical procedures that are typically traumatic to the body. Our net sales have increased substantially since our formation. Our growth has been fueled in part by strategic acquisitions designed to improve our ability to take advantage of growth opportunities in the medical device industry and to build depth of portfolio within our core businesses. These strategic acquisitions have helped us to add promising new technologies to our pipeline and to offer one of the broadest product portfolios in the world for use in less-invasive procedures in our core areas of Medical Surgical (MedSurg), Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular. We believe that the depth and breadth of our product portfolio has also enabled us to compete more effectively in the current healthcare environment that seeks to improve outcomes and lower costs. Our strategy of category leadership also enables us to compete in a changing healthcare landscape and position our products with providers and payers, while also expanding internationally and managing the complexities of the global healthcare market. Business Strategy We operate pursuant to five strategic imperatives: Strengthen Category Leadership, Expand into High Growth Adjacencies, Drive Global Expansion, Fund the Journey to Fuel Growth and Develop Key Capabilities. We believe that our execution of these strategic imperatives will drive innovation, accelerate profitable revenue growth and increase stockholder value while strengthening our leadership position in the medical device industry. We expect to continue to invest in our core franchises and pursue opportunities to diversify and further expand our presence in strategic growth adjacencies and new global markets. Our approach to innovation combines internally-developed products and technologies with those we may obtain externally through strategic acquisitions, alliances and other investments. Our research and development efforts are focused largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and all divisions. In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions in support of our growth strategy, both strengthening our core franchises and expanding into high growth adjacent markets. Our Enterprise Risk Management program analyzes the key risks inherent to achieving our strategic and organizational imperatives. Such risk assessment helps us to anticipate and adapt to potential challenges to preserve and grow stockholder value. Our Board of Directors oversees our risk management program and focuses on monitoring, and together with management, mitigating the most significant risks facing the Company, including strategic, operational, financial, legal and compliance risks. Products In 2019 , our products were offered for sale by seven core businesses, with 26 percent of our revenue generated by our Interventional Cardiology business, 18 percent by our Cardiac Rhythm Management business, 18 percent by our Endoscopy business, 13 percent by our Urology and Pelvic Health business, 13 percent by our Peripheral Interventions business, eight percent by our Neuromodulation business, and three percent by our Electrophysiology business, with the remaining one percent generated by our recently acquired Specialty Pharmaceuticals business. Our seven core businesses are organized into three reportable segments: MedSurg, Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular. Following our acquisition of BTG plc (BTG), which closed during the third quarter of 2019, we have included BTG s Interventional Medicine business within our Peripheral Interventions operating segment, within the Cardiovascular reportable segment. We have presented our full year 2019 results to include BTG's Interventional 3 Medicine business within our Peripheral Interventions operating segment, following the close of the BTG acquisition. We present BTG s Specialty Pharmaceuticals business as a standalone operating segment alongside our reportable segments. The following describes our principal product offerings by reportable segment, as well as our Specialty Pharmaceutical standalone operating segment. MedSurg Endoscopy Gastroenterology and Pulmonary Our Endoscopy business develops and manufactures devices to diagnose and treat a broad range of gastrointestinal (GI) and pulmonary conditions with innovative, less invasive technologies. Our product offerings include the following: our SpyGlass DS II Direct Visualization System, which brings digital imaging, a wider field of view and a simpler set-up (compared to our legacy SpyGlass System), thus enabling cholangioscopy to play a greater role in the diagnosis and treatment of pancreatico-biliary diseases, our Resolution 360 Clip, a hemostatic clipping technology designed to stop and help prevent bleeding during endoscopic procedures, our Epic Biliary Endoscopic Stent System, indicated for the palliation of malignant strictures, is our first laser cut self-expanding metal stent and complements our braided metal stent portfolio, our Acquire Endoscopic Ultrasound Fine Needle Biopsy Device, which is designed to obtain larger tissue specimens for histological assessment and is useful when diagnosing diseases such as pancreatic cancer, liver cancer and stomach lesions, our AXIOS Stent and Electrocautery Enhanced Delivery System, the first, and currently only, stent in the U.S. indicated for endoscopic drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts, our infection prevention portfolio, which includes a customizable Compliance EndoKit and single-use Orca Valves, designed to minimize the risk of infection transmission and improve operational efficiencies by streamlining manual cleaning or eliminating the need for cleaning and tracking, and our endoluminal surgery portfolio with ORISE Tissue Retractor System, designed to enable tissue retraction and countertraction during en bloc colonic tissue resection procedures and ORISE Gel, designed to be used for submucosal lift of polyps, adenomas, early-stage cancers or other gastrointestinal mucosal lesions prior to excision with a snare or other endoscopic device. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for the EXALT Model D Single-Use Duodenoscope for use in endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedures. The EXALT Model D Duodenoscope is the first and only FDA-cleared single-use (disposable) duodenoscope on the market and was granted Breakthrough Device Designation from the FDA to ensure patients and healthcare providers have timely access to this device. Urology and Pelvic Health Our Urology and Pelvic Health business develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological and pelvic conditions for both male and female anatomies , including kidney stones, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostate cancer, erectile dysfunction, incontinence, pelvic floor disorders, abnormal uterine bleeding and uterine fibroids and polyps. Our product offerings include the following: our comprehensive line of stone management products, including ureteral stents, catheters, baskets, guidewires, sheaths and balloons and stone laser devices, our LithoVue Single-Use Digital Flexible Ureteroscope, which delivers detailed high-resolution digital images for high-quality visualization and seamless navigation, our penile implants to treat erectile dysfunction and urinary control systems to treat male urinary incontinence, under our Prosthetic Urology portfolio, our GreenLight XPS Laser System, our MoXy Fiber and Rez m System, purchased as part of the NxThera, Inc. (NxThera) acquisition in the second quarter of 2018, under our BPH therapies, our SpaceOAR Hydrogel System, purchased as part of the Augmenix, Inc. (Augmenix) acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2018, to help reduce side effects that men may experience after receiving radiotherapy to treat prostate cancer, and our range of devices for the treatment of Women's Health conditions such as stress urinary incontinence, heavy menstrual bleeding (menorrhagia) and uterine fibroids and polyps. 4 Rhythm and Neuro Cardiac Rhythm Management Our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) business develops and manufactures a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities. Our product offerings include the following: our implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) and implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-D) as well as the world's first, and currently only, commercially available subcutaneous implantable cardiac defibrillators (S-ICD), our pacemakers and implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemakers (CRT-P), and our LATITUDE Remote Patient Management System, which allows for more frequent monitoring and better guided treatment decisions by enabling physicians in most geographies to monitor implantable system performance remotely. Our entire transvenous defibrillator portfolio leverages our EnduraLife Battery Technology, including our extended longevity (EL) ICD, our CRT-D s and our MINI (smallest and thinnest) ICD. Our most current generation of defibrillators, the RESONATE family of devices, is available in most major markets around the world. These devices include our proprietary HeartLogic Heart Failure (HF) Diagnostic, EnduraLife Battery Technology and SmartCRT with Multisite pacing in CRT-D. We have magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) conditional labeling across our defibrillator portfolio in most major markets around the world when used with our current generation of leads, including our current generation devices as well as our prior generation of DYNAGEN and INOGEN devices. Our implantable defibrillator portfolio is complemented by our suite of ACUITY X4 Quadripolar LV Leads, RELIANCE family of ICD Leads and INGEVITY Pacing Lead. In addition to our transvenous defibrillator portfolio, we offer our EMBLEM MRI S-ICD System, which provides physicians the ability to treat patients who are at risk for sudden cardiac arrest without touching the heart or invading the vasculature. Our EMBLEM S-ICD devices have MRI conditional labeling and LATITUDE Remote Patient Management in most major markets. We market our ACCOLADE family of pacemaker systems in nearly all major markets around the world. Approval of our ACCOLADE Pacemaker family in the U.S., Europe and Japan also included approval for use of these products in patients undergoing MRI scans. Much like our defibrillator portfolio, our pacemakers leverage our INGEVITY Pacing Leads and LATITUDE Remote Patient Management in nearly all major markets. Electrophysiology Our Electrophysiology business develops and manufactures less-invasive medical technologies used in the diagnosis and treatment of rate and rhythm disorders of the heart , including a broad portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic catheters and a variety of equipment used in the Electrophysiology lab. Our product offerings include the following: our Rhythmia Mapping System, a next-generation, catheter-based, 3-D cardiac mapping and navigation solution designed to help diagnose and guide treatment of a variety of arrhythmias, our Blazer Therapeutic Ablation Catheter line, our broad portfolio of diagnostic catheters including Blazer Dx-20, Dynamic Tip and Viking Catheters, our IntellaMap Orion TM Mapping Catheter, for use with our Rhythmia Mapping System to provide high-density, high-resolution maps of the heart, our intracardiac ultrasound catheters, delivery sheaths and other accessories, and our full offering of capital equipment used in Electrophysiology labs, such as recording systems, generators and pumps. Our cooled ablation catheter portfolio includes our U.S. and CE Mark approved Blazer Open-Irrigated, IntellaNav Open-Irrigated, and IntellaNav MiFi Open-Irrigated ablation catheters with a unique Total Tip Cooling Design. We also offer our IntellaNav XP and IntellaNav MiFi XP solid tip catheters. Our IntellaTip MiFi XP, IntellaNav MiFi XP and IntellaNav MiFi Open-Irrigated Catheters include MicroFidelity (MiFi) sensor technology in the catheter tip. Additionally, the European and Japan markets have access to our DIRECTSENSE Software which leverages our proprietary MiFi electrode catheter design to capture and present local impedance. DIRECTSENSE Software provides meaningful information on tissue to catheter tip proximity, catheter stability, and other local tissue characteristics. 5 All of our IntellaNav Catheters are designed to allow magnetic tracking when used with our Rhythmia Mapping System. We also recently received CE Mark and U.S. IDE approval for our POLARx Cryoablation Single-shot Pulmonary Vein Isolation Technology, purchased as part of our acquisition of Cryterion in the third quarter of 2018. Our capital equipment offerings include our Rhythmia Mapping System, LabSystem PRO Recording System, Maestro RF Generators and the MetriQ Pump. Neuromodulation Our Neuromodulation business develops and manufactures devices to treat various neurological movement disorders and manage chronic pain. Our product offerings include the following: our Precision , Precision Spectra , Precision Montage , Precision Novi and Spectra WaveWriter Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) Systems, designed to provide improved pain relief to a wide range of patients who suffer from chronic pain, our Superion Indirect Decompression System, a minimally-invasive device used to improve physical function and reduce pain in patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) purchased as part of the acquisition of Vertiflex, Inc. in the second quarter of 2019, and our Vercise , Vercise PC and Vercise Gevia Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Systems for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, tremor, and intractable primary and secondary dystonia, a neurological movement disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions. In January 2018, we announced FDA approval for the Spectra WaveWriter SCS System, the first and only system approved by the FDA to simultaneously provide paresthesia-based and sub-perception therapy. The Precision Spectra SCS System is the world's first and only SCS system with 32 contacts and 32 dedicated power sources. We believe that we continue to have a technological advantage due to our proprietary features such as Multiple Independent Current Control and our Illumina 3D Proprietary Programming Software, which together are intended to allow the physician to target specific areas of pain and customize stimulation of nerve fibers more precisely. In 2018, we began commercializing our Vercise DBS System in the U.S. following FDA approval in late 2017. The Vercise DBS System is approved in the U.S. as an adjunctive therapy that aids in reducing some of the symptoms of moderate to advanced Parkinson s disease. We also have regulatory approval for our Vercise DBS System in various international regions including Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific. Our Vercise Gevia DBS System with the Cartesia Directional Lead is the first and only MRI conditional, rechargeable and directional system, using multi-directional stimulation designed for greater precision, intended to minimize side effects for patients. The Cartesia Directional Lead continues to expand our market access in Europe, Japan and various countries in Latin America. In the third quarter of 2018, we received CE mark approval in Europe for GUIDE XT System, the first DBS visualization system built for directionality that utilizes patient specific anatomy and stimulation field modeling. This technology provides physicians with 3-D image planning capability and when used in conjunction with the Vercise DBS Systems, enables physicians to personalize and optimize DBS treatment. In January 2019, the Vercise Gevia DBS System with the Cartesia Directional Lead was approved by the FDA and in August 2019 received ImageReady MRI labeling to be used in a full-body magnetic resonance imaging environment. Cardiovascular Interventional Cardiology Our Interventional Cardiology business develops, manufactures and commercializes technologies for diagnosing and treating coronary artery disease and other cardiovascular disorders including structural heart conditions. Our broad, innovative product offerings have led to our leadership in the global interventional cardiology market. 6 Drug-Eluting Coronary Stent Systems Our drug-eluting coronary stent product offerings are an important element of our global Interventional Cardiology market leadership. We believe we have enhanced the outcomes associated with the use of coronary stents, particularly the processes that lead to restenosis (the growth of neointimal tissue within an artery after angioplasty and stenting), through our scientific research and product development of drug-eluting stent systems. Our coronary stent offerings include the following: our SYNERGY Everolimus-Eluting Platinum Chromium Coronary Stent System, featuring an ultra-thin abluminal (outer) bioabsorbable polymer coating, our Promus ELITE Everolimus-Eluting Stent, and our Promus PREMIER Everolimus-Eluting family of stents. Complex PCI Product Offerings Our product offerings to perform complex percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) include a broad line of products used to treat patients with atherosclerosis, a principal cause of coronary artery obstructive disease. These include balloon catheters, rotational atherectomy systems, guide wires, guide catheters, embolic protection devices, crossing and re-entry devices for the treatment of chronically occluded coronary vessels and diagnostic catheters used in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures. PCI Guidance Our PCI Guidance offerings include a family of intravascular catheter-directed ultrasound imaging catheters, complemented by our intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging system and our fractional flow reserve (FFR) devices and systems for use in coronary arteries and heart chambers as well as certain peripheral vessels to assist in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Our PCI Guidance product offerings include the following: our OptiCross IVUS Imaging catheter, our COMET FFR Pressure Guidewire, and our iLab Ultrasound Imaging System with Polaris Software, designed to enhance the diagnosis and treatment of blocked vessels and other heart disorders, which is compatible with our full line of imaging catheters and coronary physiology devices and continues to be our flagship console. The iLab Ultrasound Imaging System has been placed in cardiology labs worldwide and provides an installed base through which we expect to continue to sell associated single-use products. Structural Heart Therapies Structural heart therapies are one of the fastest growing areas of the medical technology market and are highly synergistic with our Interventional Cardiology and Rhythm Management businesses. Our current structural heart product offerings include the following: our WATCHMAN Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Technology (WATCHMAN), and WATCHMAN FLX, designed to close the left atrial appendage in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who are at risk for ischemic stroke, our ACURATE TA , ACURATE neo , and ACURATE TF Aortic Valve Systems, which are based on a self-expanding architecture, our LOTUS Edge Aortic Valve System, which is based on mechanical-expanding architecture, and our Sentinel Cerebral Embolic Protection System, purchased as part of our acquisition of Claret Medical, Inc. (Claret) in the third quarter of 2018. WATCHMAN Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Device is the first device to offer a non-pharmacologic alternative to oral anti-coagulants that has been studied in a randomized clinical trial and is marketed globally. The WATCHMAN Device has been commercially available internationally since 2009, received FDA approval in 2015 and is the leading device in percutaneous LAAC globally. In the first quarter of 2019, we received CE Mark and initiated a limited market release of the next generation WATCHMAN FLX LAAC Device in Europe. We believe that the WATCHMAN device will be the only LAAC technology commercially available in the U.S. throughout 2020. 7 Our Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) portfolio is comprised of our dual valve offering including the LOTUS Edge Valve with mechanical-expanding architecture which is well suited for intra-annular cases and was launched commercially in the U.S. and Europe in the first half of 2019 and the ACURATE neo Valve based on self-expanding architecture for supra-annular cases. In addition to our dual valve offering, our TAVR portfolio includes the Sentinel Cerebral Embolic Protection System which is used to reduce the risk of stroke in TAVR procedures. Peripheral Interventions Our Peripheral Interventions business develops and manufactures products to diagnose and treat peripheral vascular diseases, including a broad line of medical devices used in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), as well as products to diagnose, treat and ease various forms of cancer. Following the completion of the acquisition of BTG during the third quarter of 2019, we began to integrate BTG's Interventional Medicine (IM) portfolio into the Peripheral Interventions division, adding complementary technologies in the areas of venous disease and interventional oncology. Our combined broad peripheral portfolio includes products to treat arterial diseases (stents, balloon catheters, wires and atherectomy) and venous diseases (thrombectomy, acoustic pulse thrombolysis, wires and stents) and for use in interventional oncology techniques to treat various cancers (peripheral embolization devices, radioactive microspheres, radiofrequency and cryotherapy ablation systems, microcatheters and drainage catheters). Our peripheral angioplasty balloon technologies include the following: our Mustang PTA next-generation Balloon Catheter, a 0.035" balloon with superior crossing and tracking, powerful dilatation, longer lengths and smaller sheath sizes, our Coyote Balloon Catheter, a highly deliverable and ultra-low profile balloon dilatation catheter designed for a wide range of peripheral angioplasty procedures, our Sterling Balloon Catheter, a 0.018" PTA balloon catheter designed for post-stent dilatation as well as conventional balloon angioplasty to open blocked peripheral arteries, and our Ranger Drug-Coated Balloon, an innovative balloon built on the Sterling balloon platform, featuring a low-dose of paclitaxel. Our peripheral stent technologies include the following: our EPIC Vascular Self-Expanding Stent System, a nitinol stent designed to sustain vessel patency while providing enhanced visibility and accuracy during placement, our Innova Self-Expanding Stent System, a laser-cut nitinol stent built for the superficial femoral artery (SFA, a large artery in the thigh) with flexibility, strength and fracture resistance, and our Eluvia Drug Eluting Vascular Stent System, an innovative stent built on the Innova stent platform, designed to deliver a sustained dosage of paclitaxel during the time when restenosis is most likely to occur. Our venous disease technologies include the following: our AngioJet Thrombectomy System, used in endovascular procedures to remove blood clots from blocked arteries and veins, our AngioJet Zelante DVT Thrombectomy Catheter to treat deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in large-diameter upper and lower limb peripheral veins, in the U.S. and Europe, our VICI VENOUS STENT System to treat venous obstructive disease, purchased as part of the VENITI, Inc. acquisition in the third quarter of 2018, and our EKOS Ultrasound Assisted Thrombolysis system used to treat deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, purchased as part of the BTG acquisition, which closed during the third quarter of 2019. Our interventional oncology product offerings include the following: our Therasphere Y-90 radioactive glass microspheres used in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC or the most common type of liver cancer) purchased as part of the BTG acquisition, our Direxion Torqueable Microcatheter, and our line of interventional oncology solutions, including the Renegade HI-FLO Fathom Microcatheter and Guidewire System and Interlock - 35 Fibered IDC and 18 Fibered IDC Occlusion System for peripheral embolization. 8 Specialty Pharmaceuticals Following the closing of the BTG acquisition in the third quarter of 2019, Specialty Pharmaceuticals was added as an eighth operating segment. Our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business develops and manufactures acute care antidotes to treat overexposure to certain medications and toxins. These products are sold primarily in the U.S. through small, specialist sales teams and through commercial partners elsewhere, where approved or permitted, on a named patient basis. Our Specialty Pharmaceuticals product offerings include the following: our CroFab , the only FDA-approved product derived exclusively from U.S. snakes and approved to treat all North American pit viper envenomations in adult and pediatric patients, our DigiFab Digoxin Immune Fab (Ovine), a treatment for patients with life-threatening or potentially life-threatening digoxin toxicity or overdose that is clinically proven to effectively clear digoxin from the body, and our Voraxaze , a carboxypeptidase indicated to reduce toxic plasma methotrexate concentration (greater than one micromole per liter) in adult and pediatric patients with delayed methotrexate clearance (plasma methotrexate concentrations greater than two standard deviations of the mean methotrexate excretion curve specific for the dose of methotrexate administered) due to impaired renal function. Research and Development Our investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. Our investment in research and development supports the following: internal research and development programs, regulatory design and clinical science, as well as other programs obtained through our strategic acquisitions and alliances, and engineering efforts that incorporate customer feedback into continuous improvement efforts for currently marketed and next-generation products. We have directed our development efforts toward innovative technologies designed to expand current markets or enter adjacent markets. We are transforming how we conduct research and development by identifying best practices, driving efficiencies and optimizing our cost structure, which we believe will enable increased development activity and faster concept-to-market timelines. Focused, cross-functional teams take a formal approach to new product design and development, helping us to manufacture and offer innovative products consistently and efficiently. Involving cross-functional teams early in the process is the cornerstone of our product development cycle. We believe this collaboration allows our teams to concentrate resources on the most viable and clinically relevant new products and technologies and maximize cost and time savings as we bring them to market. In addition to internal development, we work with hundreds of leading research institutions, universities and clinicians around the world to develop, evaluate and clinically test our products. We are