ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 33 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 33 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 34 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 34 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 34 PART II 35 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 35 ITEM 6. RESERVED 37 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 38 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 63 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 66 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 120 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 120 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 120 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 121 PART III 122 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 122 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 122 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 122 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 122 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 122 PART IV 123 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 123 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 133 SIGNATURES 134 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Boston Scientific Corporation is a global developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. Our mission is to transform lives through innovative medical solutions that improve the health of patients around the world. As a medical technology leader for more than 40 years, we have advanced the practice of less-invasive medicine by helping physicians and other medical professionals diagnose and treat a wide range of diseases and medical conditions and improve patients quality of life by providing alternatives to surgery and other medical procedures that are typically traumatic to the body. We advance science for life by providing a broad range of high performance solutions to address unmet patient needs and reduce the cost of health care. When used in this report, the terms "we," "us," "our" and "the Company" mean Boston Scientific Corporation and its divisions and subsidiaries. Business Strategy We operate pursuant to five strategic imperatives. We aim to: Strengthen Category Leadership, Expand into High Growth Adjacencies, Drive Global Expansion, Fund the Journey to Fuel Growth and Develop Key Capabilities. We believe that our execution of these strategic imperatives will help us deliver on our mission, drive innovation and increase value for our customers and employees, while strengthening our leadership position in the medical device industry and delivering profitable revenue growth. We expect to continue to invest in our core businesses and pursue opportunities to diversify and further expand our presence in strategic, high-growth adjacencies and new global markets, including growth within the countries we define as emerging markets. Maintaining and expanding our international presence is an important component of our long-term growth strategy. Through our international presence, we seek to increase net sales and market share, leverage our relationships with leading physicians and their clinical research programs, accelerate the time to bring new products to market and gain access to worldwide technological developments that we can implement across our product lines. Our research and development efforts are focused largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and all divisions. In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions in support of our growth strategy, both strengthening our core businesses and expanding into high growth adjacent markets. We continue to develop digital tools and technologies that enable us to compete more effectively and deliver first class remote physician education, drive deeper patient engagement and increase digitally-enabled sales force productivity. We have a firm commitment to corporate social responsibility and living our values as a global business and global corporate citizen. This includes taking actions to combat discrimination and advancing equality and diversity, including through financial support of racial equity initiatives in the communities where we live and work, protecting the environment, investing in our employees' health and well-being, and many other initiatives that we believe ultimately help us create value responsibly. Refer to discussion of Community Outreach below and Corporate Responsibility included in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding measures we are undertaking. Product Offerings Our core businesses are organized into two reportable segments: MedSurg and Cardiovascular. The following describes our key product offerings and new product innovations by reportable segment and business unit. MedSurg Endoscopy Our Endoscopy business develops and manufactures devices to diagnose and treat a broad range of gastrointestinal (GI) and pulmonary conditions with innovative, less invasive technologies. Our product offerings include the following: Resolution 360 Clips and Resolution 360 ULTRA Clips, hemostatic clipping technology designed to stop and help prevent bleeding during endoscopic procedures, WallFlex Biliary Stent Systems, used for relieving biliary obstructions by providing bile drainage in both malignant and benign strictures, 3 AXIOS Stents and Electrocautery Enhanced Delivery Systems, the first, and currently only stent systems in the U.S. indicated for endoscopic drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts and used to facilitate endoscopic drainage of the gallbladder for patients with acute cholecystitis, SpyGlass DS II Direct Visualization Systems and SpyGlass Discover Digital Catheters, the first single-use scopes to enable physicians to take a single-stage approach to diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in the pancreaticobiliary system, including treating patients with bile duct stones, EXALT Model D Single-Use Duodenoscopes for use in endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedures, the first U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-cleared single-use (disposable) duodenoscopes on the market and our infection prevention portfolio, designed to minimize the risk of infection transmission and improve operational efficiencies by streamlining manual cleaning or eliminating the need for cleaning and tracking. In the second quarter of 2023, we completed the acquisition of Apollo Endosurgery, Inc., a public company that has developed and commercialized endoscopic suturing devices including OverStitch Endoscopic Suturing Systems and X-Tack Endoscopic HeliX Tacking Systems and endobariatric devices including the Apollo ESG and Apollo REVISE Systems, the first devices authorized by the FDA for endoscopic sleeve gastroplasty and endoscopic bariatric revision procedures, as well as the Orbera Intragastric Balloon for endoscopic weight management. Urology Our Urology business develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological conditions for both male and female anatomies, including kidney stones, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostate cancer, erectile dysfunction and incontinence. Our product offerings include the following: a comprehensive line of stone management products, including ureteral stents, catheters, baskets, guidewires, sheaths and balloons, LithoVue Single-Use Digital Flexible Ureteroscopes, which deliver detailed high-resolution digital images for high-quality visualization and seamless navigation, Lumenis Pulse Holmium Laser Systems with MOSES Technology, complemented by a full line of laser fibers and accessories used in urology procedures, our prosthetic urology portfolio, which includes our AMS 700 penile implant to treat erectile dysfunction and our AMS 800 Artificial Urinary Sphincter to treat male urinary incontinence, GreenLight XPS Laser System, MoXy Fiber, and Rez m Systems for treatment of BPH and SpaceOAR Hydrogel Systems which help reduce side effects that men may experience after receiving radiotherapy to treat prostate cancer, together with our SpaceOAR VUE Hydrogel, providing clinicians with enhanced product visualization. In the first quarter of 2023, we received FDA clearance for and launched our LithoVue Elite Single-Use Digital Flexible Ureteroscope System, the first ureteroscope with the ability to monitor intrarenal pressure in real-time during ureteroscopy procedures. Pending Axonics Acquisition On January 8, 2024, we announced our entry into a definitive agreement to acquire Axonics, Inc. (Axonics), a publicly traded medical technology company primarily focused on the development and commercialization of devices to treat urinary and bowel dysfunction. The Axonics product portfolio includes the Axonics R20 and Axonics F15 Systems used to deliver sacral neuromodulation (SNM) therapy for the treatment of over-active bladder and fecal incontinence. The purchase price is $71.00 in cash per share, or approximately $3.670 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2024, subject to customary closing conditions. We plan to fund the acquisition through a mix of cash on hand and new debt. The Axonics business will be integrated into our Urology division. Neuromodulation Our Neuromodulation business develops and manufactures devices to treat various neurological movement disorders and manage chronic pain. Our product offerings include the following: Precision Montage and WaveWriter Alpha Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) Systems, designed to provide improved pain relief to a wide range of patients who suffer from chronic pain, with proprietary features such as Multiple Independent Current Control, our Illumina 3D Proprietary Programming Software and FAST Therapy for 4 profound parathesia-free pain relief in minutes, used by physicians to target specific areas of pain and customize stimulation of nerve fibers more precisely, our G4 Generator and consumable portfolio in Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) for pain management used by physicians to treat patients with chronic pain, Superion Indirect Decompression Systems, minimally-invasive devices used to improve physical function and reduce pain in patients with moderate lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), our Cognita Practice Optimization suite of tools designed to increase awareness, streamline patient management, and sustain long-term outcomes for patients Vercise Genus Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) System for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, tremor, and intractable primary and secondary dystonia, a neurological movement disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions, utilizing Stimview XT, our proprietary DBS visualization software developed in collaboration with Brainlab AG, providing clinicians with real-time, 3D visualization and stimulation of brain anatomy. In the second quarter of 2023, we received FDA approval for the Vercise Neural Navigator 5 Software, which when used with the Vercise Genus DBS systems can help provide clinicians with simple and actionable data for efficient programming in the treatment of people living with Parkinson's disease or essential tremor. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2023, we completed the acquisition of Relievant Medsystems, Inc., a privately held medical technology company that has developed and commercialized the Intracept Intraosseous Nerve Ablation System, the only FDA-cleared system to treat vertebrogenic pain, a form of chronic low back pain. Cardiovascular Cardiology Interventional Cardiology Therapies (ICTx) Our Interventional Cardiology Therapies business develops and manufactures technologies for diagnosing and treating coronary artery disease and aortic valve conditions. Our product offerings include the following: OptiCross Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS) Imaging Catheters, iLab Ultrasound Imaging Systems with Polaris Software, designed to enhance the diagnosis and treatment of blocked vessels and other heart disorders, compatible with our full line of imaging catheters, AVVIGO Guidance Systems and AVVIGO Guidance System II, incorporating high-definition IVUS all in a mobile or integrated platform, ROTAPRO Rotational Atherectomy Systems, designed to treat coronary calcification in lesions by regulating the flow of air to the advancer, controlling burr rotation speed, and also monitoring and displaying burr rotation speed and rotational atherectomy procedural time, SYNERGY , SYNERGY MEGATRON and SYNERGY XD Everolimus-Eluting Platinum Chromium Coronary Stent Systems, featuring an ultra-thin abluminal (outer) bioabsorbable polymer coating, Safari2 Pre-Shaped Guidewires, intended to facilitate the introduction and placement of interventional devices within the heart, WOLVERINE Coronary Cutting Balloon , a cutting balloon angioplasty device with a unique mechanism of action that enables precise vessel preparation across a wide range of resistant lesions, AGENT Drug-Coated Balloon, which is designed to provide a targeted, therapeutic dose of anti-proliferative paclitaxel to the coronary lesion and minimize downstream particulates, ACURATE neo2 Aortic Valve Systems for use in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) procedures and SENTINEL Cerebral Embolic Protection Systems, used to reduce the risk of stroke in TAVR procedures and is clinically proven to decrease cerebral embolization and its associated neurological effects. In the third quarter of 2023, we received CE Mark, FDA clearance and Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) approval for the AVVIGO + Multi-Modality Guidance System, a next-generation technology that provides high-quality IVUS imaging and physiologic assessment of coronary vessels and lesions. 5 Watchman Our WATCHMAN FLX Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Devices are designed to close the left atrial appendage in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who are at risk for ischemic stroke. WATCHMAN is the first device to offer a non-pharmacologic alternative to oral anti-coagulants that has been studied in a randomized clinical trial and is the leading device in percutaneous LAAC globally. In the third quarter of 2023, we received FDA approval for the latest-generation WATCHMAN FLX Pro LAAC Device, which is designed to improve visualization during device placement, reduce device-related thrombus post-implant and treat a broader range of patient anatomies. Cardiac Rhythm Management Our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) business develops and manufactures a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities. Our product offerings include the following: the RESONATE family of implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) and implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-D), including our proprietary HeartLogic Heart Failure (HF) Diagnostic and SmartCRT Technology with Multisite pacing in CRT-D, EMBLEM MRI S-ICD Systems, the world's first commercially available subcutaneous implantable cardiac defibrillators (S-ICD), which provides physicians the ability to treat patients who are at risk for sudden cardiac arrest without touching the heart, ACCOLADE family of pacemakers and implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemakers (CRT-P), ACUITY X4 Quadripolar LV Leads, RELIANCE family of ICD Leads and our INGEVITY Pacing Leads, LATITUDE Remote Patient Management Systems, which allow for more frequent monitoring and better guided treatment decisions by enabling physicians to monitor implantable system performance remotely, LUX-Dx Insertable Cardiac Monitor (ICM) systems, long-term diagnostic devices implanted in patients to detect arrhythmias associated with conditions such as atrial fibrillation (AF), cryptogenic stroke and syncope and BodyGuardian Remote Cardiac Monitoring Systems provide a full range of mobile health solutions and remote monitoring services, ranging from ambulatory cardiac monitors including short and long-term holter monitors to cardiac event monitors and mobile cardiac telemetry. In the third quarter of 2023, we received FDA clearance and launched the next-generation LUX-Dx II/II+ ICM system for long-term monitoring of arrhythmias. Additionally, our entire transvenous defibrillator portfolio leverages our EnduraLife Battery Technology and has magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) conditional labeling when used with our current generation of leads. Electrophysiology Our Electrophysiology business develops and manufactures less-invasive medical technologies used in the diagnosis and treatment of rate and rhythm disorders of the heart, including a broad portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic catheters and a variety of equipment used in the Electrophysiology lab. Our product offerings include the following: Farapulse Pulsed Field Ablation (PFA) System for the treatment of AF, POLARx Cryoablation Systems for the treatment of AF, VersaCross Connect Access Solutions for our WATCHMAN FXD Curve Sheath, Polarsheath and Faradrive Steerable Sheath providing safe and efficient access to the left side of the heart, Rhythmia Mapping Systems, catheter-based, 3-D cardiac mapping and navigation solutions designed to help diagnose and guide treatment of a variety of arrhythmias, A portfolio of radiofrequency (RF) cardiac ablation catheters, including our INTELLANAV STABLEPOINT catheter, which also includes DIRECTSENSE Software for monitoring RF energy during ablations and IntellaMap Orion Mapping Catheters, for use with our Rhythmia Mapping System to provide high-density, high-resolution maps of the heart. In the third quarter of 2023, we received FDA approval for the POLARx Cryoablation System, which includes the POLARx FIT Cryoablation Balloon Catheter, and in the first quarter of 2024, we received FDA approval for the FARAPULSE PFA System, both of which are used to treat patients with paroxysmal AF. 6 Peripheral Interventions Our Peripheral Interventions business develops and manufactures products to diagnose and treat peripheral arterial and venous diseases, as well as products to diagnose, treat and ease various forms of cancer. Our broad peripheral portfolio includes stent systems, balloon catheters, guidewires, atherectomy and thrombectomy systems, embolization devices, radioactive microspheres, radiofrequency and cryotherapy ablation systems, microcatheters and drainage catheters. Our peripheral arterial product offerings include: Eluvia Drug Eluting Vascular Stent Systems, innovative stents built on the Innova stent platform, designed to deliver a sustained dosage of paclitaxel during the time when restenosis is most likely to occur, in addition to the Eluvia line extension, the longest-length stent available for treatment of patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) in the superficial femoral artery, Mustang , Coyote and Sterling PTA Balloon Catheters designed for a wide variety of peripheral angioplasty procedures and Ranger Drug-Coated Balloons, innovative balloons built on the Sterling balloon platform, featuring a low-dose of paclitaxel. Our venous disease product offerings include the following: AngioJet Thrombectomy Systems, used in endovascular procedures to remove blood clots from blocked arteries and veins and our AngioJet Zelante DVT Thrombectomy Catheters to treat deep vein thrombosis, EKOS Ultrasound Assisted Thrombolysis systems used to treat pulmonary embolisms and Varithena Polidocanol Injectable Foam used to improve the symptoms of superficial venous incompetence and the appearance of visible varicosities. Our interventional oncology product offerings include the following: TheraSphere Y-90 radioactive glass microspheres used in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common type of liver cancer, Renegade HI-FLO Fathom Microcatheter and Guidewire System and Interlock - 35 Fibered IDC and 18 Fibered IDC Occlusion System for peripheral embolization, EMBOLD Detachable Coil System, used for arterial and venous embolizations in the peripheral vasculature and ICEFX and Visual ICE Cryoablation Systems for destruction of tissue, using image-guided needles to enable cryoablation visualization for optimal tumor coverage . In the first quarter of 2023, we acquired a majority stake investment in Acotec Scientific Holdings Limited (Acotec), a publicly traded Chinese manufacturer of drug-coated balloons and other products used in the treatment of vascular and other diseases, complementing our existing Peripheral Interventions portfolio. In addition, in the second quarter of 2023, we received FDA 510(k) clearance for the EMBOLD Soft and Packing Coils, which, along with the EMBOLD Fibered Coil, complete the EMBOLD Detachable Coil System, a peripheral embolization platform for vessel occlusion designed to simplify operator workflow and streamline inventory for hospitals . In the fourth quarter of 2023, we started to introduce our OBSIDIO Conformable Embolic for use in the embolization of hypervascular tumors and blood vessels to occlude blood flow for controlling bleeding/hemorrhaging in the peripheral vasculature. Markets Competition We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which we sell our products and solutions, some from companies that may have greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Abbott Laboratories and Medtronic plc, as well as a wide range of medical device companies that sell a single or limited number of competitive products or participate in only a specific market segment. In certain countries, and particularly in China, we also face competition from domestic medical device companies that may benefit from their status as local suppliers. We also face competition from non-medical device companies, which may offer alternative therapies for disease states that could also be treated using our products, or from companies offering technologies that could augment or replace procedures using our products. 7 We believe that our products and solutions compete primarily on their ability to deliver both differentiated clinical and economic outcomes for our customers by enabling physicians to perform diagnostic and therapeutic procedures safely and effectively often in a less-invasive and cost effective manner. We also compete on ease of use, comparative effectiveness, reliability and physician familiarity. In the current environment of managed care, with economically motivated buyers, consolidation among health care providers, increasing prevalence and importance of regional and national tenders, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we are also required to compete on the basis of price, value, reliability and efficiency. We recognize that our continued competitive success will depend upon our ability to: offer products and solutions that provide differentiated clinical and economic outcomes, create or acquire innovative, scientifically advanced technologies, apply our technology and solutions cost-effectively and with superior quality across product lines and markets, develop or acquire proprietary products and solutions, attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, obtain required regulatory and reimbursement approvals, continually provide quality products and enhance our quality systems and supply sufficient inventory at competitive prices to meet customer demand. Research and Development Our investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. Our investment in research and development supports the following: internal research and development programs, regulatory design and clinical science, as well as other programs obtained through our strategic acquisitions and alliances and engineering efforts that incorporate customer feedback into continuous improvement efforts for currently marketed and next-generation products. We have directed our development efforts toward innovative technologies designed to expand current markets or enter adjacent markets. We continue to transform how we conduct research and development by identifying best practices, driving efficiencies and optimizing our cost structure, which we believe will enable increased development activity and faster concept-to-market timelines. Focused, cross-functional teams take a formal approach to new product design and development, helping us to manufacture and offer innovative products consistently and efficiently. Involving cross-functional teams early in the process is the cornerstone of our product development cycle. We believe this collaboration allows our teams to concentrate resources on the most viable and clinically relevant new products and technologies and to maximize cost and time savings as we bring them to market. In addition to internal development, we work with leading research institutions, universities and clinicians around the world to develop, evaluate and clinically test our products. We continue to expand our collaborations to include research and development teams in our emerging market countries; these teams will focus on both global and local market requirements at a lower cost of development. We believe that these efforts will play a significant role in our future success. Marketing and Sales We market our products and solutions to hospitals, clinics, outpatient facilities and medical offices in 140 countries worldwide. In addition, large group purchasing organizations, hospital networks and other buying groups are important to our business and represent a substantial portion of our net sales. Each of our businesses maintains dedicated sales forces and marketing teams focused on physicians who specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of different medical conditions, as well as on key hospital service line administrators. The majority of our net sales are derived from countries in which we have direct sales organizations. We also have a network of distributors and dealers who offer our products in certain countries and markets. We expect to continue to leverage our infrastructure in markets where commercially appropriate and use third party distributors in those markets where it is not economical or strategic to establish or maintain a direct presence. 8 Resources Manufacturing and Raw Materials We are focused on continuously improving our supply chain effectiveness, strengthening our manufacturing processes and increasing operational efficiencies within our organization worldwide. In doing so, we seek to focus our internal resources on the development and commercial launch of new products and the enhancement of existing products. We also drive continuous improvement in product quality through process controls and validations, supplier and distribution controls and training and tools for our operations team. In addition, we remain focused on examining our operations and general business activities to enhance our operational effectiveness by identifying cost-improvement opportunities. We remain committed to maintaining appropriate investments to ensure supply chain stability. We have an ongoing supplier resiliency program which identifies and mitigates risk and have taken measures to mitigate the impact of challenges within the global supply chain in recent years. We consistently monitor our inventory levels, manufacturing, sterilization and distribution capabilities and partnerships and maintain recovery plans to address potential disruptions. Many components used in the manufacturing of our products are readily fabricated from commonly available raw materials or off-the-shelf items available from multiple supply sources; however, certain items are custom made to meet our specifications. On an on-going basis, we track supplier status and inventory in risk areas and take action to prevent shortages, monitoring safety stock levels and building up product supplies as warranted, and mitigating risk of technology and material shortages by identifying new vendors. Predictability in the supply of certain raw materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products has improved but continues to be a risk for certain materials and vendors. While we continue to believe we will have access to the raw materials and components that we need, these supply chain dynamics could result in increased costs to us or an inability to fully meet customer demand for certain of our products. Proprietary Rights and Patent Litigation We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other forms of intellectual property to protect our proprietary rights. We generally file patent applications in the U.S. and other countries where patent protection for our technology is appropriate and available. We hold patents worldwide that cover various aspects of our technology. In addition, we hold exclusive and non-exclusive licenses to a variety of third-party technologies covered by patents and patent applications. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to our business; however, we believe that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to our business as a whole. We rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry, particularly in the areas in which we compete. We continue to defend ourselves against claims and legal actions alleging infri