ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 36 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 36 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 36 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 36 PART II 37 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 37 ITEM 6. RESERVED 39 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 40 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 67 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 70 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 134 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 134 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 134 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 134 PART III 135 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 135 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 135 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 135 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 135 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 135 PART IV 136 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 136 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 148 SIGNATURES 149 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Company Boston Scientific Corporation is a global developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. Our mission is to transform lives through innovative medical solutions that improve the health of patients around the world. As a medical technology leader for more than 40 years, we have advanced the practice of less-invasive medicine by helping physicians and other medical professionals diagnose and treat a wide range of diseases and medical conditions and improve patients quality of life by providing alternatives to surgery and other medical procedures that are typically traumatic to the body. Our net sales have increased substantially since our formation, fueled in part by strategic acquisitions designed to improve our ability to take advantage of growth opportunities in the medical device industry and to build diversified portfolios within our core businesses. We advance science for life by providing a broad range of high performance solutions to address unmet patient needs and reduce the cost of healthcare. When used in this report, the terms "we," "us," "our" and "the Company" mean Boston Scientific Corporation and its divisions and subsidiaries. Business Strategy We operate pursuant to five strategic imperatives: Strengthen Category Leadership, Expand into High Growth Adjacencies, Drive Global Expansion, Fund the Journey to Fuel Growth and Develop Key Capabilities. We believe that our execution of these strategic imperatives will drive innovation, profitable revenue growth and increase stockholder value while strengthening our leadership position in the medical device industry. We expect to continue to invest in our core franchises and pursue opportunities to diversify and further expand our presence in strategic, high-growth adjacencies and new global markets, including growth within the countries we define as emerging markets. Our research and development efforts are focused largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and all divisions. In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions in support of our growth strategy, both strengthening our core franchises and expanding into high growth adjacent markets. We have also accelerated the development of digital tools and technologies to enable us to compete more effectively in the current healthcare environment, where our customers are looking for ways to improve outcomes and lower costs, and to make it easier to do business with Boston Scientific across multiple sites of care. Specifically, we are scaling our digital capabilities to deliver first class physician education, drive deeper patient engagement and increase digitally-enabled sales force productivity. Our Enterprise Risk Management program analyzes the key risks inherent to achieving our strategic and organizational imperatives. Our ongoing risk assessment helps us to anticipate and adapt to potential challenges to preserve and grow stockholder value. Our Board of Directors oversees our risk management program and focuses on monitoring, and, together with management, mitigating the most significant risks facing the Company, including strategic, operational, reputational, financial, legal and compliance risks. We have a firm commitment to corporate social responsibility and living our values as a global business and global corporate citizen. This includes taking actions to combat discrimination and advancing equality and diversity, including through financial support of racial equity initiatives in the communities where we live and work, protecting the environment, investing in our employees' health and well-being, and many other initiatives that ultimately help us create value responsibly. Refer to discussion of Community Outreach below and Corporate Sustainability included in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding measures we are undertaking. Product Offerings Our core businesses are organized into three reportable segments: MedSurg, Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular. The following describes our key product offerings and new product innovations by reportable segment. 3 MedSurg Endoscopy Gastroenterology and Pulmonary Our Endoscopy business develops and manufactures devices to diagnose and treat a broad range of gastrointestinal (GI) and pulmonary conditions with innovative, less invasive technologies. Our product offerings include the following: Resolution 360 Clips and Resolution 360 ULTRA Clips, hemostatic clipping technology designed to stop and help prevent bleeding during endoscopic procedures, WallFlex Biliary Stent Systems, used for relieving biliary obstructions by providing bile drainage in both malignant and benign strictures, AXIOS Stents and Electrocautery Enhanced Delivery Systems, the first, and currently only stents in the U.S. indicated for endoscopic drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts, SpyGlass DS II Direct Visualization Systems, which bring digital imaging, a wider field of view and a simpler set-up (compared to our legacy SpyGlass System), thus enabling cholangioscopy to play a greater role in the diagnosis and treatment of pancreatico-biliary diseases, SpyGlass Discover Digital Catheters, the first single-use scopes to enable physicians to take a single-stage approach to diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in the pancreaticobiliary system, including treating patients with bile duct stones, EXALT Model B Single-Use Bronchoscopes for use in a wide range of bronchoscopy procedures in the intensive care unit (ICU) and operating room (OR), such as secretion management, airway intubation, percutaneous tracheostomy, double lumen endotracheal tube placement and biopsies, EXALT Model D Single-Use Duodenoscopes for use in endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedures, the first U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-cleared single-use (disposable) duodenoscopes on the market, Acquire Endoscopic Ultrasound Fine Needle Biopsy Devices, which are designed to obtain larger tissue specimens for histological assessment and are useful when diagnosing diseases such as pancreatic cancer, liver cancer and stomach lesions, our endoluminal surgery portfolio featuring ORISE Gel and ORISE ProKnife, designed to be used for submucosal lift of polyps, adenomas, early-stage cancers or other gastrointestinal mucosal lesions prior to excision with a snare or other endoscopic device, and our infection prevention portfolio, which includes a customizable Compliance EndoKit and single-use Orca Valves, designed to minimize the risk of infection transmission and improve operational efficiencies by streamlining manual cleaning or eliminating the need for cleaning and tracking. During 2021, we launched our next-generation Resolution 360 ULTRA Clip, featuring increased jaw length, thickness and volume capacity, and currently the largest through-the-scope hemostasis clip on the market, designed to approximate greater amount of tissue and facilitate stronger closing strength. Urology and Pelvic Health Our Urology and Pelvic Health business develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological and pelvic conditions for both male and female anatomies, including kidney stones, benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostate cancer, erectile dysfunction, incontinence and pelvic floor disorders. Our product offerings include the following: a comprehensive line of stone management products, including ureteral stents, catheters, baskets, guidewires, sheaths, balloons and stone laser devices, LithoVue Single-Use Digital Flexible Ureteroscopes, which deliver detailed high-resolution digital images for high-quality visualization and seamless navigation, our Prosthetic Urology portfolio, which includes our penile implants to treat erectile dysfunction and urinary control systems to treat male urinary incontinence, BPH therapies, which include our GreenLight XPS Laser System, MoXy Fiber, and Rez m System, SpaceOAR Hydrogel Systems which help reduce side effects that men may experience after receiving radiotherapy to treat prostate cancer, and our SpaceOAR Vue Hydrogel, providing clinicians with enhanced product visualization using computerized tomography (CT) scans instead of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and our Pelvic Floor portfolio, which includes a comprehensive offering of female stress urinary incontinence solutions, including our innovative Solyx Single-Incision Sling System. 4 In the third quarter of 2021, we completed the acquisition of the global surgical business of Lumenis LTD (Lumenis), a privately-held company that develops and commercializes energy-based medical solutions, including innovative laser systems, fibers and accessories used for urology and otolaryngology procedures. Rhythm and Neuro Cardiac Rhythm Management Our Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) business develops and manufactures a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities. Our product offerings include the following: implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) and implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators (CRT-D) as well as the world's first, and currently only, commercially available subcutaneous implantable cardiac defibrillators (S-ICD), pacemakers and implantable cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemakers (CRT-P), LATITUDE Remote Patient Management Systems, which allow for more frequent monitoring and better guided treatment decisions by enabling physicians to monitor implantable system performance remotely and LUX-Dx Insertable Cardiac Monitor (ICM) systems, new, long-term diagnostic devices implanted in patients to detect arrhythmias associated with conditions such as atrial fibrillation (AF), cryptogenic stroke and syncope. In addition, in the first quarter of 2021, we completed the acquisition of Preventice Solutions, Inc., a privately-held company that offers a full portfolio of mobile health solutions and remote monitoring services, ranging from ambulatory cardiac monitors including short and long-term holter monitors to cardiac event monitors and mobile cardiac telemetry, complementing our existing ICM offering. Our current generation of defibrillators, the RESONATE family of devices, include our proprietary HeartLogic Heart Failure (HF) Diagnostic and SmartCRT Technology with Multisite pacing in CRT-D. Our entire transvenous defibrillator portfolio leverages our EnduraLife Battery Technology, including our extended longevity ICD, our CRT-D s and our smallest and thinnest MINI ICD. We have magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) conditional labeling across our defibrillator portfolio around the world when used with our current generation of leads, including our current generation devices as well as our prior generation of DYNAGEN and INOGEN devices. Our implantable defibrillator portfolio is complemented by our suite of ACUITY X4 Quadripolar LV Leads, RELIANCE family of ICD Leads and our INGEVITY Pacing Lead. In addition to our transvenous defibrillator portfolio, we offer our EMBLEM MRI S-ICD System, which provides physicians the ability to treat patients who are at risk for sudden cardiac arrest without touching the heart or invading the vasculature. Our EMBLEM S-ICD devices have MRI conditional labeling and LATITUDE Remote Patient Management in most major markets. We market our ACCOLADE family of pacemaker systems in nearly all major markets around the world. Approval of our ACCOLADE Pacemaker family in the U.S., Europe and Japan also included approval for use of these products in patients undergoing MRI scans. Much like our defibrillator portfolio, our pacemakers leverage our INGEVITY Pacing Leads and LATITUDE Remote Patient Management in nearly all major markets. Electrophysiology Our Electrophysiology business develops and manufactures less-invasive medical technologies used in the diagnosis and treatment of rate and rhythm disorders of the heart, including a broad portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic catheters and a variety of equipment used in the Electrophysiology lab. Our product offerings include the following: Rhythmia Mapping Systems, catheter-based, 3-D cardiac mapping and navigation solutions designed to help diagnose and guide treatment of a variety of arrhythmias, Blazer Therapeutic Ablation Catheters, our broad portfolio of diagnostic catheters including Blazer Dx-20, Dynamic Tip and Viking Catheters, IntellaMap Orion TM Mapping Catheters, for use with our Rhythmia Mapping System to provide high-density, high-resolution maps of the heart, POLARx TM Cryoablation single shot ablation systems, and intracardiac ultrasound catheters, delivery sheaths and other accessories. 5 Our cooled ablation catheter portfolio includes our U.S. and CE Mark approved Blazer Open-Irrigated, IntellaNav Open-Irrigated, and IntellaNav MiFi Open-Irrigated ablation catheters with a unique Total Tip Cooling Design. We also offer our IntellaNav XP and IntellaNav MiFi XP solid tip catheters, as well as the CE Mark and Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency (PMDA) approved IntellaNav STABLEPOINT TM Ablation Catheter. Certain of our IntellaNav Catheters include MicroFidelity (MiFi) sensor technology in the catheter tip, and all are designed to allow magnetic tracking when used with our Rhythmia Mapping System. Additionally, all major markets have access to our DIRECTSENSE Software, a tool for monitoring radiofrequency (RF) energy delivery during cardiac ablation procedures, providing meaningful information on tissue to catheter tip proximity, catheter stability, and other local tissue characteristics. In the second half of 2021, we received Japanese PMDA approval and commenced the Japanese launch of our POLARx TM Cryoablation Single-shot Pulmonary Vein Isolation Technology. During 2021, we completed enrollment in the FROZEN-AF investigational device exemption (IDE) study for POLARx TM . In addition, in the third quarter of 2021, we completed the acquisition of Farapulse, Inc. (Farapulse), a privately-held company that has developed a Pulsed Field Ablation (PFA) System - a non-thermal single-shot ablation system for the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) and other cardiac arrhythmias. Farapulse became the first company to commercialize a cardiac PFA technology after receiving CE Mark in Europe in the first quarter of 2021. Neuromodulation Our Neuromodulation business develops and manufactures devices to treat various neurological movement disorders and manage chronic pain. Our product offerings include the following: Precision , Precision Spectra , Precision Montage , Precision Novi , Spectra WaveWriter and WaveWriter Alpha Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) Systems, designed to provide improved pain relief to a wide range of patients who suffer from chronic pain, Superion Indirect Decompression Systems, minimally-invasive devices used to improve physical function and reduce pain in patients with moderate lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) purchased as part of the acquisition of Vertiflex, Inc. in the second quarter of 2019, our G4 Generator and consumable portfolio in Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) for pain management used by physicians to treat patients with chronic pain, and Vercise , Vercise PC, Vercise Gevia and Vercise Genus Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Systems for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, tremor, and intractable primary and secondary dystonia, a neurological movement disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions. Our Spectra WaveWriter SCS System is the first system approved by the FDA to simultaneously provide paresthesia-based and sub-perception therapy. The Precision Spectra SCS System is the world's first and only SCS system with 32 contacts and 32 dedicated power sources. We believe that we continue to have a technological advantage due to our proprietary features such as Multiple Independent Current Control and our Illumina 3D Proprietary Programming Software, which together are intended to allow the physician to target specific areas of pain and customize stimulation of nerve fibers more precisely. We announced the European launch of the WaveWriter Alpha Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) System in the third quarter of 2020 and received FDA approval in the fourth quarter of 2020 and followed with U.S. launch, indicated as an aid in the management of chronic intractable pain of the trunk and/or limbs including unilateral or bilateral pain associated with failed back surgery syndrome and complex regional pain syndrome. Our Vercise DBS Systems are approved in the U.S. as an adjunctive therapy that aids in reducing some of the symptoms of moderate to advanced Parkinson s disease as well as for patients diagnosed with essential tremor. In the third quarter of 2020, we received CE Mark and initiated a limited market release of the fourth generation Vercise Genus DBS System in Europe, and launched in the U.S in the first quarter of 2021, following FDA approval. The Vercise Genus DBS platform features a full portfolio of primary cell and rechargeable MRI conditional systems with Bluetooth connectivity and the Cartesia Directional Lead, providing multi-directional stimulation designed for greater precision, intended to minimize side effects for patients. In Europe, we also market the GUIDE XT System, the first DBS visualization system built for directionality that utilizes patient specific anatomy and stimulation field modeling. This technology provides physicians with 3-D image planning capability and when used in conjunction with the Vercise DBS Systems, enables physicians to personalize and optimize DBS treatment. 6 Cardiovascular Interventional Cardiology Our Interventional Cardiology business develops and manufactures technologies for diagnosing and treating coronary artery disease and structural heart conditions. Our broad, innovative product offerings have led to our leadership in the global interventional cardiology market. Drug-Eluting Coronary Stent Systems Our drug-eluting coronary stent product offerings are an important element of our global Interventional Cardiology market leadership. We believe we have enhanced the outcomes associated with the use of coronary stents, particularly the processes that lead to restenosis (the growth of neointimal tissue within an artery after angioplasty and stenting), through our scientific research and product development of drug-eluting stent systems. Our coronary stent offerings include the following: SYNERGY , SYNERGY MEGATRON and SYNERGY XD Everolimus-Eluting Platinum Chromium Coronary Stent Systems, featuring an ultra-thin abluminal (outer) bioabsorbable polymer coating and Promus ELITE and Promus PREMIER Everolimus-Eluting Stent Systems. Complex PCI Our product offerings to perform complex percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) include a broad line of products used to treat patients with atherosclerosis, a principal cause of coronary artery obstructive disease. These include balloon catheters, rotational atherectomy systems, guide wires, guide catheters, embolic protection devices, crossing and re-entry devices for the treatment of chronically occluded coronary vessels and diagnostic catheters used in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures. PCI Guidance Our PCI Guidance offerings include a family of intravascular catheter-directed ultrasound imaging catheters, complemented by our intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging system and our fractional flow reserve (FFR) devices and systems for use in coronary arteries and heart chambers as well as certain peripheral vessels to assist in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Our PCI Guidance product offerings include the following: OptiCross IVUS Imaging Catheters, COMET FFR Pressure Guidewires, AVVIGO Guidance Systems and AVVIGO Guidance System II, incorporating high-definition IVUS all in a mobile or integrated platform, and iLab Ultrasound Imaging Systems with Polaris Software, designed to enhance the diagnosis and treatment of blocked vessels and other heart disorders, which are compatible with our full line of imaging catheters and coronary physiology devices. The iLab Ultrasound Imaging System has been placed in cardiology labs worldwide and provides an installed base through which we expect to continue to sell associated single-use products. Our next-generation AVVIGO Guidance System II is a streamlined multi-modality guidance system platform that features intuitive software for an easy workflow and specialized tools for IVUS and coronary physiology. Structural Heart Therapies Structural heart therapies are one of the fastest growing areas of the medical technology market and are highly synergistic with our Interventional Cardiology and Rhythm Management businesses. Our current structural heart product offerings include the following: WATCHMAN FLX Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Devices, designed to close the left atrial appendage in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who are at risk for ischemic stroke, ACURATE neo and ACURATE neo2 Aortic Valve Systems, which are based on a self-expanding architecture, Safari2 Pre-Shaped Guidewires, intended to facilitate the introduction and placement of interventional devices within the heart, including those used with transcatheter aortic valve implantation or replacement procedures, and SENTINEL Cerebral Embolic Protection Systems. 7 The WATCHMAN LAAC Device is the first device to offer a non-pharmacologic alternative to oral anti-coagulants that has been studied in a randomized clinical trial and is the leading device in percutaneous LAAC globally. During 2021, we completed the full U.S. launch and transition to the next-generation WATCHMAN FLX LAAC Device, designed to advance procedural performance and safety while expanding the treatable patient population. Our Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) portfolio includes the ACURATE neo Valve based on self-expanding architecture for supra-annular cases. Our ACURATE neo 2 Aortic Valve System, commercialized in Europe, is built on a new platform designed with a number of features to improve upon the clinical performance of the original ACURATE neo Valve platform. In addition, our SENTINEL Cerebral Protection System is used to reduce the risk of stroke in TAVR procedures and is clinically proven to decrease cerebral embolization and its associated neurological effects. Peripheral Interventions Our Peripheral Interventions business develops and manufactures products to diagnose and treat peripheral arterial and venous diseases, as well as products to diagnose, treat and ease various forms of cancer. In the third quarter of 2019, we completed the acquisition of BTG plc (BTG). We integrated BTG's Interventional Medicine (IM) portfolio into our Peripheral Interventions division, adding complementary technologies in the areas of venous disease and interventional oncology. Our combined broad peripheral portfolio includes products to treat arterial diseases (stents, balloon catheters, wires and atherectomy) and venous diseases (thrombectomy, acoustic pulse thrombolysis, wires and stents) and for use in interventional oncology techniques to treat various cancers (peripheral embolization devices, radioactive microspheres, radiofrequency and cryotherapy ablation systems, microcatheters and drainage catheters). Our peripheral arterial technologies include: EPIC Vascular Self-Expanding Stent Systems, nitinol stents designed to sustain vessel patency while providing enhanced visibility and accuracy during placement, Innova Self-Expanding Stent Systems, laser-cut nitinol stents built for the superficial femoral artery (SFA, a large artery in the thigh) with flexibility, strength and fracture resistance, Eluvia Drug Eluting Vascular Stent Systems, innovative stents built on the Innova stent platform, designed to deliver a sustained dosage of paclitaxel during the time when restenosis is most likely to occur, Mustang PTA Balloon Catheters, 0.035" balloons with superior crossing and tracking, powerful dilatation, longer lengths and smaller sheath sizes, Coyote Balloon Catheters, highly deliverable and ultra-low profile balloon dilatation catheters designed for a wide range of peripheral angioplasty procedures, Sterling Balloon Catheters, 0.018" PTA balloon catheters designed for post-stent dilatation as well as conventional balloon angioplasty to open blocked peripheral arteries, and Ranger Drug-Coated Balloons, innovative balloons built on the Sterling balloon platform, featuring a low-dose of paclitaxel. In the first quarter of 2021, we received approval from Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) for the Ranger Drug-Coated Balloon and initiated a full launch. We are the first company to provide physicians with both a drug-eluting stent and drug-coated balloon for the treatment of patients with peripheral artery disease. Our venous disease technologies include the following: AngioJet Thrombectomy Systems, used in endovascular procedures to remove blood clots from blocked arteries and veins and our AngioJet Zelante DVT Thrombectomy Catheters to treat deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in large-diameter upper and lower limb peripheral veins, EKOS Ultrasound Assisted Thrombolysis systems used to treat pulmonary embolisms, purchased as part of the BTG acquisition in 2019, and Varithena Polidocanol Injectable Foam used to improve the symptoms of superficial venous incompetence and the appearance of visible varicosities, also purchased as part of the BTG acquisition. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we completed our acquisition of Devoro Medical Inc., developer of the WOLF Thrombectomy Platform, an innovative non-console and lytic-free technology which rapidly captures and removes blood clots, complementing our full suite of interventional strategies for thromboemboli in the arterial and venous systems. 8 Our interventional oncology product offerings include the following: TheraSphere Y-90 radioactive glass microspheres used in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common type of liver cancer, purchased as part of the BTG acquisition, interventional oncology solutions, including the Renegade HI-FLO Fathom Microcatheter and Guidewire System and Interlock - 35 Fibered IDC and 18 Fibered IDC Occlusion System for peripheral embolization, and Cryoablation image-guided needles used to enable cryoablation visualization for optimal tumor coverage, purchased as part of the BTG acquisition. In the first quarter of 2021, we received FDA approval for our TheraSphere Y-90 radioactive glass microspheres for the treatment of HCC after 20 years as a humanitarian exemption (HDE) device and secured FDA Breakthrough Device designation for TheraSphere treatment for patients with glioblastoma, an aggressive form of brain cancer. Specialty Pharmaceuticals On March 1, 2021, we completed the divestiture of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals business for a purchase price of approximately $800 million. Our consolidated net sales include Specialty Pharmaceuticals up to the date of the closing of the transaction. Markets Competition We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which we sell our products and solutions, some from companies that may have greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Abbott Laboratories and Medtronic plc, as well as a wide range of medical device companies that sell a single or limited number of competitive products or participate in only a specific market segment. In certain countries, we face competition from domestic medical device companies that may benefit from their status as local suppliers. We also face competition from non-medical device companies, which may offer alternative therapies for disease states that could also be treated using our products, or from companies offering technologies that could augment or replace procedures using our products. We believe that our products and solutions compete primarily on their ability to deliver both differentiated clinical and economic outcomes for our customers by enabling physicians to perform diagnostic and therapeutic procedures safely and effectively often in a less-invasive and cost effective manner. We also compete on ease of use, comparative effectiveness, reliability and physician familiarity. In the current environment of managed care, with economically motivated buyers, consolidation amon