Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 85 Item 2. Properties 85 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 85 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 85 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 86 Item 6. (Reserved) 88 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 88 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 150 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 154 Item 8A. Unaudited Supplemental Presentation of Statements of Financial Condition 228 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 230 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 230 Item 9B. Other Information 231 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 231 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 232 Item 11. Executive Compensation 239 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 258 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 262 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 268 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 269 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 284 Signatures 285 1 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, our operations, taxes, earnings and financial performance, and share repurchases and dividends. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as outlook, indicator, believes, expects, potential, continues, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, predicts, intends, plans, estimates, anticipates, opportunity, leads or the negative version of these words or other comparable words. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. We believe these factors include but are not limited to the impact of the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ), as well as those described under the section entitled Risk Factors in this report, as such factors may be updated from time to time in our periodic filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), which are accessible on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this report and in our other periodic filings. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Risk Factor Summary The following is only a summary of the principal risks that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The following should be read in conjunction with the more complete discussion of the risk factors we face, which are set forth more fully in Part I.