Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 68 Item 2. Properties 68 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 68 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 69 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 70 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 72 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 74 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 131 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 135 Item 8A. Unaudited Supplemental Presentation of Statements of Financial Condition 211 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 213 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 213 Item 9B. Other Information 214 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 215 Item 11. Executive Compensation 221 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 241 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 244 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 25 2 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 253 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 265 Signatures 266 1 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, our operations, financial performance, and unit repurchase and distribution activities. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as outlook, indicator, believes, expects, potential, continues, may, will, should, seeks, approximately, predicts, intends, plans, estimates, anticipates or the negative version of these words or other comparable words. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. We believe these factors include but are not limited to those described under the section entitled Risk Factors in this report, as such factors may be updated from time to time in our periodic filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), which are accessible on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this report and in our other periodic filings. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Website and Social Media Disclosure We use our website (www.blackstone.com), Facebook page (www.facebook.com/blackstone), Twitter (www.twitter.com/blackstone), LinkedIn (www.linkedin.com/company/blackstonegroup), Instagram (www.instagram.com/blackstone), SoundCloud (www.soundcloud.com/blackstone-300250613), PodBean (www.blackstone.podbean.com), Spotify (https://spoti.fi/2LJ1tHG), YouTube (www.youtube.com/user/blackstonegroup) and Apple Podcast (https://apple.co/31Pe1Gg) accounts as channels of distribution of company information. The information we post through these channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about Blackstone when you enroll your email address by visiting the Contact Us/Email Alerts section of our website at http://ir.blackstone.com. The contents of our website, any alerts and social media channels are not, however, a part of this report. Effective July 1, 2019, The Blackstone Group L.P. (the Partnership ) converted from a Delaware limited partnership to a Delaware corporation, The Blackstone Group Inc. (the Conversion ). This report includes the results for the Partnership prior to the Conversion and The Blackstone Group Inc. following the Conversion. In this report, references to Blackstone, the Company, we, us or our refer to (a) The Blackstone Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries following the Conversion and (b) the Partnership and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Conversion. All references to shares or per share amounts prior to the Conversion refer to units or per unit amounts. Unless otherwise noted, all references to shares or per share amounts following the Conversion refer to shares or per share amounts of Class A common stock. All references to dividends prior to the Conversion refer to distributions. See Part I. Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Organizational Structure. Class C Shareholder refers to Blackstone Group Management L.L.C., the holder of the sole outstanding share of our Class C common stock. Blackstone Funds, our funds and our investment funds refer to the funds and other vehicles that are managed by Blackstone. Our carry funds refers to funds managed by Blackstone that have commitment-based multi-year drawdown structures that pay carry on the realization of an investment. We refer to our flagship corporate private equity funds as Blackstone Capital Partners ( BCP ) funds, our energy-focused private equity funds as Blackstone Energy Partners ( BEP ) funds, our core private equity fund as Blackstone Core Equity Partners ( BCEP ), our opportunistic investment platform that invests globally across asset 2 Table of Contents classes, industries and geographies as Blackstone Tactical Opportunities ( Tactical Opportunities ), our secondary fund of funds business as Strategic Partners Fund Solutions ( Strategic Partners ), our infrastructure-focused funds as Blackstone Infrastructure Partners ( BIP ), our life sciences private investment platform, Blackstone Life Sciences ( BXLS ), our multi-asset investment program for eligible high net worth investors offering exposure to certain of our key illiquid investment strategies through a single commitment as Blackstone Total Alternatives Solution ( BTAS ) and our capital markets services business as Blackstone Capital Markets ( BXCM ). We refer to our real estate opportunistic funds as Blackstone Real Estate Partners ( BREP ) funds and our real estate debt investment funds as Blackstone Real Estate Debt Strategies ( BREDS ) funds. We refer to our real estate investment trusts as REITs , to Blackstone Mortgage Trust, Inc., our NYSE-listed REIT, as BXMT , and to Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust, Inc., our non-exchange traded REIT, as BREIT . We refer to our real estate funds which target substantially stabilized assets in prime markets, as Blackstone Property Partners ( BPP ) funds. We refer to BPP and BREIT collectively as our core+ real estate strategies. Our hedge funds refers to our funds of hedge funds, hedge funds, certain of our real estate debt investment funds, including a registered investment company, and certain other credit-focused funds which are managed by Blackstone. BIS refers to Blackstone Insurance Solutions, which partners with insurers to deliver bespoke, capital-efficient investments tailored to each insurer s needs and risk profile. Assets Under Management refers to the assets we manage. Our Assets Under Management equals the sum of: (a) the fair value of the investments held by our carry funds and our side-by-side and co-investment entities managed by us, plus (1) the capital that we are entitled to call from investors in those funds and entities pursuant to the terms of their respective capital commitments, including capital commitments to funds that have yet to commence their investment periods, or (2) for certain credit-focused funds the amounts available to be borrowed under asset based credit facilities, (b) the net asset value of (1) our hedge funds and real estate debt carry funds, BPP, certain co-investments managed by us, certain credit-focused funds, and our Hedge Fund Solutions drawdown funds (plus, in each case, the capital that we are entitled to call from investors in those funds, including commitments yet to commence their investment periods), and (2) our funds of hedge funds, our Hedge Fund Solutions registered investment companies, and BREIT, (c) the invested capital, fair value or net asset value of assets we manage pursuant to separately managed accounts, (d) the amount of debt and equity outstanding for our collateralized loan obligations ( CLO ) during the reinvestment period, (e) the aggregate par amount of collateral assets, including principal cash, for our CLOs after the reinvestment period, (f) the gross or net amount of assets (including leverage where applicable) for our credit-focused registered investment companies, and (g) the fair value of common stock, preferred stock, convertible debt, or similar instruments issued by BXMT. Our carry funds are commitment-based drawdown structured funds that do not permit investors to redeem their interests at their election. Our funds of hedge funds, hedge funds, funds structured like hedge funds and other open-ended funds in our Hedge Fund Solutions, Credit and Real Estate segments generally have structures that afford an investor the right to withdraw or redeem their interests on a periodic basis (for example, annually or quarterly), typically with 30 to 95 days notice, depending on the fund and the liquidity profile of the underlying assets. Investment advisory agreements related to certain separately managed accounts in our Hedge Fund Solutions and Credit segments, excluding our BIS separately managed accounts, may generally be terminated by an investor on 30 to 90 days notice. 3 Table of Contents Fee-Earning Assets Under Management refers to the assets we manage on which we derive management fees and/or performance revenues. Our Fee-Earning Assets Under Management equals the sum of: (a) for our Private Equity segment funds and Real Estate segment carry funds including certain BREDS and Hedge Fund Solutions funds, the amount of capital commitments, remaining invested capital, fair value, net asset value or par value of assets held, depending on the fee terms of the fund, (b) for our credit-focused carry funds, the amount of remaining invested capital (which may include leverage) or net asset value, depending on the fee terms of the fund, (c) the remaining invested capital or fair value of assets held in co-investment vehicles managed by us on which we receive fees, (d) the net asset value of our funds of hedge funds, hedge funds, BPP, certain co-investments managed by us, certain registered investment companies, BREIT, and certain of our Hedge Fund Solutions drawdown funds, (e) the invested capital, fair value of assets or the net asset value we manage pursuant to separately managed accounts, (f) the net proceeds received from equity offerings and accumulated core earnings of BXMT, subject to certain adjustments, (g) the aggregate par amount of collateral assets, including principal cash, of our CLOs, and (h) the gross amount of assets (including leverage) or the net assets (plus leverage where applicable) for certain of our credit-focused registered investment companies. Each of our segments may include certain Fee-Earning Assets Under Management on which we earn performance revenues but not management fees. Our calculations of assets under management and fee-earning assets under management may differ from the calculations of other asset managers, and as a result this measure may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other asset managers. In addition, our calculation of assets under management includes commitments to, and the fair value of, invested capital in our funds from Blackstone and our personnel, regardless of whether such commitments or invested capital are subject to fees. Our definitions of assets under management and fee-earning assets under management are not based on any definition of assets under management and fee-earning assets under management that is set forth in the agreements governing the investment funds that we manage. For our carry funds, total assets under management includes the fair value of the investments held and uncalled capital commitments, whereas fee-earning assets under management includes the total amount of capital commitments or the remaining amount of invested capital at cost depending on whether the investment period has expired or as specified by the fee terms of the fund. As such, fee-earning assets under management may be greater than total assets under management when the aggregate fair value of the remaining investments is less than the cost of those investments. Perpetual Capital refers to the component of assets under management with an indefinite term, that is not in liquidation, and for which there is no requirement to return capital to investors through redemption requests in the ordinary course of business, except where funded by new capital inflows. Perpetual Capital includes co-investment capital with an investor right to convert into Perpetual Capital. This report does not constitute an offer of any Blackstone Fund. 4 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1. Business Overview Blackstone is one of the world s leading investment firms, with Total Assets Under Management of $571.1 billion as of December 31, 2019. We seek to create positive economic impact and long-term value for our investors, the companies we invest in, and the communities in which we work. We do this by utilizing extraordinary people and flexible capital to help companies solve problems. Our asset management businesses include investment vehicles focused on real estate, private equity, public debt and equity, growth equity, opportunistic, non-investment grade credit, real assets and secondary funds, all on a global basis. All of Blackstone s businesses use a solutions-oriented approach to drive better performance. We believe our scale, diversified business, long record of investment performance, rigorous investment process and strong client relationships, position us to continue to perform well in a variety of market conditions, expand our assets under management and add complementary businesses. Two of our primary limited partner constituencies are public and corporate pension funds. Our mission is to create long-term value through careful stewardship of their capital. To the extent our funds perform well, we can support a better retirement for tens of millions of pensioners, including teachers, nurses and firefighters. In addition, because we are a global firm with a footprint on nearly every continent, our investments can make a positive difference around the world. As of December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 2,905 people, including our 157 senior managing directors, at our headquarters in New York and around the world. Our employees are integral to Blackstone s culture of integrity, professionalism and excellence. We believe hiring, training and retaining talented individuals, coupled with our rigorous investment process, has supported our excellent investment record over many years. This record, in turn, has enabled us to innovate into new strategies, drive growth and better serve our investors. Business Segments Our four business segments are: (a) Real Estate, (b) Private Equity, (c) Hedge Fund Solutions and (d) Credit. Information about our business segments should be read together with Part II. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . For more information concerning the revenues and fees we derive from our business segments, see Fee Structure/Incentive Arrangements . Real Estate Our Real Estate business, founded in 1991, is a global leader in real estate investing, with $163.2 billion of Total Assets Under Management as of December 31, 2019. Our Real Estate segment operates as a globally integrated business with approximately 575 employees and has investments in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. Our Real Estate investment teams seek to utilize our global expertise and presence to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our investors and to make a positive impact on the communities in which we invest. Our Blackstone Real Estate Partners business is geographically diversified and targets a broad range of opportunistic real estate and real estate-related investments. The BREP funds include global funds as well as funds focused specifically on Europe or Asia investments. BREP seeks to invest thematically in high-quality assets, focusing where we see outsized growth potential driven by global economic and demographic trends. BREP has made significant investments in logistics, rental housing, office, hospitality and retail properties around the world, as well as a variety of real estate operating companies. 5 Table of Contents We launched Blackstone Real Estate Debt Strategies, our real estate debt platform, in 2008. Our BREDS vehicles primarily target real estate-related debt investment opportunities. BREDS invests in both public and private markets, primarily in the U.S. and Europe. BREDS scale and investment mandates enable it to provide a variety of lending options for our borrowers and investment options for our investors, including mezzanine loans, senior loans and liquid securities. The BREDS platform includes a number of high-yield and high-grade real estate debt funds, liquid real estate debt funds and Blackstone Mortgage Trust, Inc., a NYSE-listed REIT. Our core+ real estate business includes Blackstone Property Partners and a non-exchange traded REIT, BREIT. We launched BPP in 2013 and have assembled a global portfolio of high-quality investments across North America, Europe and Asia, which target substantially stabilized assets in prime markets with a focus on industrial, multifamily, office and retail assets. The funds generate returns through both current income and value appreciation over the long-term. BREIT, which launched in 2017, invests primarily in stabilized income-oriented commercial real estate in the United States and to a lesser extent in real estate-related securities. Private Equity Our Private Equity segment encompasses global businesses with a total of approximately 510 employees managing $182.9 billion of Total Assets Under Management as of December 31, 2019. Our Private Equity segment includes our corporate private equity business, which consists of: (a) our flagship private equity funds, Blackstone Capital Partners, (b) our sector-focused funds, including our energy-focused funds, Blackstone Energy Partners and (c) our Asia-focused private equity fund, Blackstone Capital Partners Asia. In addition, our Private Equity segment includes (a) our core private equity fund, Blackstone Core Equity Partners, (b) our opportunistic investment platform that invests globally across asset classes, industries and geographies, Blackstone Tactical Opportunities, (c) our secondary fund of funds business, Strategic Partners Fund Solutions, (d) our infrastructure-focused funds, Blackstone Infrastructure Partners, (e) our life sciences private investment platform, Blackstone Life Sciences, (f) our multi-asset investment program for eligible high net worth investors offering exposure to certain of Blackstone s key illiquid investment strategies through a single commitment, Blackstone Total Alternatives Solutions and (g) our capital markets services business, Blackstone Capital Markets. We are a world leader in private equity investing. Our corporate private equity business, established in 1987, pursues transactions across industries in both established and growth-oriented businesses across the globe. It strives to create value by investing in great businesses where our capital, strategic insight, global relationships and operational support can drive transformation. Our corporate private equity business s investment strategies and core themes continually evolve, in anticipation of, or in response to, changes in the global economy, local markets, regulation, capital flows and geopolitical trends. We seek to construct a differentiated portfolio of investments with a well-defined, interventionist, post-acquisition value creation strategy. Similarly, we seek investments that can generate strong unlevered returns regardless of entry or exit cycle timing. Finally, when we can identify sectors or geographies in which the demand for capital greatly exceeds the readily available supply, our corporate private equity business seeks to make investments at or near book value where it can create goodwill or franchise value through post-acquisition actions. Blackstone Core Equity Partners pursues control-oriented investments in high-quality companies with durable businesses and seeks to offer a lower level of risk and a longer hold period than our flagship corporate private equity business. Tactical Opportunities, our opportunistic investment platform, invests globally across asset classes, industries and geographies, seeking to identify and execute on attractive, differentiated investment opportunities. As part of the strategy, the team leverages the intellectual capital across Blackstone s various businesses while continuously optimizing its approach in the face of ever-changing market conditions. Tactical Opportunities flexible mandate leads to a diversified portfolio of investments across a broad range of structures, including private and public securities and instruments and where the underlying exposure may be to equity and/or debt. 6 Table of Contents Strategic Partners, our secondary fund of funds business, is a total fund solutions provider. As a secondary investor it acquires interests in high-quality private funds from original holders seeking liquidity. Strategic Partners focuses on a range of opportunities in underlying funds such as leveraged buyout, real estate, infrastructure, venture and growth capital, credit and other types of funds, as well as primary investments and co-investments with financial sponsors. Strategic Partners also provides investment advisory services to separately managed account clients investing in primary and secondary investments in private funds and co-investments. Blackstone Infrastructure Partners targets a diversified mix of core+, core and public-private partnership investments across all infrastructure sectors, including energy, water and waste, transportation and communications, with a primary focus in the U.S. BIP applies a disciplined operationally intensive investment approach to investments in the infrastructure asset class. BIP seeks to apply a long-term buy-and-hold strategy to large-scale infrastructure assets with a focus on delivering stable, long-term capital appreciation together with a predictable annual cash flow yield. Blackstone Life Sciences is our private investment platform with capabilities to invest across the life cycle of companies and products within the life sciences sector. BXLS primarily focuses on investments in life sciences products in late stage clinical development within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors. Hedge Fund Solutions Working with our clients for more than 25 years, our Hedge Fund Solutions group is a leading manager of institutional funds with approximately 280 employees managing $80.7 billion of Total Assets Under Management as of December 31, 2019. The principal component of our Hedge Fund Solutions segment is Blackstone Alternative Asset Management ( BAAM ). BAAM is the world s largest discretionary allocator to hedge funds, managing a broad range of commingled and customized hedge fund of fund solutions since its inception in 1990. The Hedge Fund Solution segment also includes investment platforms that seed new hedge fund businesses, purchase minority interests in more established general partners and management companies of funds, invest in special situations opportunities, create alternative solutions in the form of daily liquidity products and invest directly. Hedge Fund Solutions overall investment philosophy is to protect and grow investors assets through both commingled and custom-tailored investment strategies designed to deliver compelling risk-adjusted returns and mitigate risk. Diversification, risk management, due diligence and a focus on downside protection are key tenets of our approach. Credit Our Credit segment, with approximately 460 employees and $144.3 billion of Total Assets Under Management as of December 31, 2019, consists principally of GSO Capital Partners ( GSO ). GSO is one of the largest credit-oriented managers in the world and is the largest manager of CLOs globally. The investment portfolios of the funds GSO manages or sub-advises predominantly consist of loans and securities of non-investment grade companies spread across the capital structure including senior debt, subordinated debt, preferred stock and common equity. GSO is organized into three overarching strategies: performing credit, distressed and long only. GSO s performing credit strategies include mezzanine lending funds, middle market direct lending funds, including our business development company ( BDC ) and other performing credit strategy funds. GSO s distressed strategies include credit alpha strategies, stressed/distressed funds and energy strategies. GSO s long only strategies consist of CLOs, closed-ended funds, open-ended funds and separately managed accounts. In addition, our Credit segment includes our publicly traded master limited partnership ( MLP ) investment platform, which is managed by Harvest Fund Advisors LLC ( Harvest ). Harvest primarily invests capital raised from institutional investors in separately managed accounts and pooled vehicles, investing in publicly traded MLPs holding primarily midstream energy assets in the U.S. Our Credit segment also includes our insurer-focused platform, Blackstone Insurance Solutions. BIS partners with insurers to deliver customized and diversified portfolios of Blackstone products across asset classes, including the option for full management of insurance companies investment portfolios. 7 Table of Contents P tria Investments On October 1, 2010, we purchased a 40% equity interest in P tria Investments Limited and P tria Investimentos Ltda. (collectively, P tria ). P tria is a leading alternative asset manager in Latin America that was founded in 1988. As of December 31, 2019, P tria s alternative asset management businesses had $14.6 billion in assets under management, including the management of private equity funds ($8.3 billion), infrastructure funds ($4.8 billion), real estate funds ($919.1 million) and new initiatives ($536.5 million). P tria has approximately 280 employees and is led by a group of three managing partners. Our investment in P tria is a minority, non-controlling investment, which we record using the equity method of accounting. We have representatives on P tria s board of directors in proportion to our ownership, but we do not control the day-to-day management of the firm or the investment decisions of their funds, all of which continues to reside with the local Brazilian partners. P tria s assets under management are not included as part of Blackstone s assets under management. Investment Process and Risk Management We maintain a rigorous investment process across all of our investment vehicles. Each investment vehicle has investment policies and procedures that generally contain requirements and limitations for investments, such as limitations relating to the amount that will be invested in any one investment and the types of assets, industries or geographic regions in which the vehicle will invest, as well as limitations required by law. The review committees and/or investment committees of our businesses review and evaluate investment opportunities in a framework that includes a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the key risks of investments. Our investment professionals are responsible for selecting, evaluating, underwriting, diligencing, negotiating, executing, managing and exiting investments. Investment professionals generally submit investment opportunities for review and approval by a review committee and/or investment committee, subject to delineated exceptions set forth in the funds investment committee charters or resolutions. Review and investment committees are generally comprised of senior leaders and other senior professionals of the applicable investment business, and in many cases, other senior leaders of Blackstone and its businesses. Considerations that review and investment committees take into account when evaluating an investment may include, without limitation and depending on the nature of the investing business and its strategy, the quality of the business or asset in which the fund proposes to invest, the quality of the management team, likely exit strategies and factors that could reduce the value of the business or asset at exit, the ability of the business in which the investment is made to service debt in a range of economic and interest rate environments, macroeconomic trends in the relevant geographic region or industry and the quality of the businesses operations. Our review and/or investment committees also incorporate relevant environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) factors into the investment decision-making process, including, for example, sustainability and diversity and inclusion. In addition, before deciding to invest in a new hedge fund or a new alternative asset manager, as applicable, our Hedge Fund Solutions and Strategic Partners teams