Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 7 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2 Properties 17 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II 21 Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 46 Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Fiscal Years Ended May 2020, 2019, and 2018 46 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Fiscal Years Ended May 2020, 2019, and 2018 47 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2020 and May 26, 2019 48 Consolidated Statements of Common Stockholders' Equity for the Fiscal Years Ended May 2020, 2019, and 2018 49 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Fiscal Years Ended May 2020, 2019, and 2018 50 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 51 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B Other Information 102 PART III 103 Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 103 Item 11 Executive Compensation 103 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 103 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 104 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 104 PART IV 105 Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 105 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 110 Signatures 111 PART I This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors. For a discussion of important factors that could cause our results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements, please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors and Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business Conagra Brands, Inc. (the "Company", "Conagra Brands", "we", "us", or "our"), headquartered in Chicago, is one of North America's leading branded food companies. Guided by an entrepreneurial spirit, the Company combines a rich heritage of making great food with a sharpened focus on innovation. The Company's portfolio is evolving to satisfy people's changing food preferences. Its iconic brands such as Birds Eye , Marie Callender's , Banquet , Healthy Choice , Slim Jim , Reddi-wip , and Vlasic , as well as emerging brands, including Angie's BOOMCHICKAPOP , Duke's , Earth Balance , Gardein , and Frontera , offer choices for every occasion. We began as a Midwestern flour-milling company and entered other commodity-based businesses throughout our history. We were initially incorporated as a Nebraska corporation in 1919 and reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1976. Over time, we transformed into the branded, pure-play consumer packaged goods food company we are today. Growing our food businesses has also been fueled by innovation, organic growth of our brands, and expansion into adjacent categories, including through acquisitions. We are focused on delivering sustainable, profitable growth with strong and improving returns on our invested capital. On October 26, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Pinnacle Foods Inc. ("Pinnacle"). As a result of the acquisition, Pinnacle became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On November 9, 2016, we completed the spinoff of Lamb Weston Holdings, Inc. ("Lamb Weston") through a distribution of 100% of our interest in Lamb Weston to holders, as of November 1, 2016, of outstanding shares of our common stock (the "Spinoff"). The transaction effecting this change was structured as a tax-free spinoff. Narrative Description of Business We compete throughout the food industry and focus on adding value for our customers who operate in the retail food and foodservice channels. Our operations, including our reporting segments, are described below. Our locations, including manufacturing facilities, within each reporting segment, are described in Item 2, Properties. Reporting Segments Our reporting segments are as follows: Grocery Snacks The Grocery Snacks reporting segment principally includes branded, shelf-stable food products sold in various retail channels in the United States. Refrigerated Frozen The Refrigerated Frozen reporting segment principally includes branded, temperature-controlled food products sold in various retail channels in the United States. 3 International The International reporting segment principally includes branded food products, in various temperature states, sold in various retail and foodservice channels outside of the United States. Foodservice The Foodservice reporting segment includes branded and customized food products, including meals, entrees, sauces, and a variety of custom-manufactured culinary products packaged for sale to restaurants and other foodservice establishments primarily in the United States. Unconsolidated Equity Investments We have two unconsolidated equity investments. Our most significant equity method investment is Ardent Mills, a milling business. Acquisitions On October 26, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Pinnacle, a branded packaged foods company specializing in shelf-stable and frozen foods. As a result of the acquisition, Pinnacle became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 26, 2018 (the "Merger Agreement"), among Conagra Brands, Pinnacle, and Patriot Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Conagra Brands that ceased to exist at the effective time of the merger, each share of Pinnacle common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger was converted into the right to receive (i) $43.11 per share in cash and (ii) 0.6494 shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per share, of the Company ("Company Shares") (together, the "Merger Consideration"), with cash payable in lieu of fractional shares of Company Shares. The total amount of consideration paid in connection with the acquisition was approximately $8.03 billion and consisted of: (1) cash of $5.17 billion ($5.12 billion, net of cash acquired) (2) 77.5 million Company Shares, with an approximate value of $2.82 billion, issued out of the Company's treasury to former holders of Pinnacle stock and (3) replacement awards issued to former Pinnacle employees representing the fair value attributable to pre-combination service of $51.1 million. Approximately $7.03 billion of the purchase price was allocated to goodwill and approximately $3.52 billion was allocated to brands, trademarks and other intangibles. Of the total goodwill, $236.7 million is deductible for tax purposes. Amortizable brands, trademarks and other intangibles totaled $668.7 million. Indefinite lived brands, trademarks and other intangibles totaled $2.85 billion. In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we reorganized our reporting segments to incorporate the Pinnacle operations into our legacy reporting segment in order to better reflect how the business is now being managed. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the revised segment presentation and the results of the Pinnacle business are now included in each of our reporting segments outlined above. In February 2018, we acquired the Sandwich Bros. of Wisconsin business, maker of frozen breakfast and entree flatbread pocket sandwiches. This business is included in the Refrigerated Frozen segment. In October 2017, we acquired Angie's Artisan Treats, LLC, maker of Angie's BOOMCHICKAPOP ready-to-eat popcorn. This business is primarily included in the Grocery Snacks segment. Divestitures During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we completed the sale of our Lender's bagel business for net proceeds of $33.2 million, subject to final working capital adjustments. The results of operations of the divested Lender's bagel business were primarily included in our Refrigerated Frozen segment, and to a lesser extent within our Foodservice segment, for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. The assets and liabilities of this business have been reclassified as assets and liabilities held for sale within our Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented prior to the divestiture. During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we completed the sale of our Direct Store Delivery ("DSD") snacks business for net proceeds of $137.5 million, including working capital adjustments. The results of operations of the divested DSD snacks business were included in our Grocery Snacks segment for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. The assets and liabilities of this business have been reclassified as assets and liabilities held for sale within our Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods presented prior to the divestiture. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we completed the sale of our Italian-based frozen pasta business, Gelit, for proceeds net of cash divested of $80.1 million, including final working capital adjustments. The results of operations of this 4 divested business were primarily included in our Refrigerated Frozen segment for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction . During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we completed the sale of our Wesson oil business for net proceeds of $168.3 million, including final working capital adjustments. The results of operations of the divested Wesson oil business were primarily included in our Grocery Snacks segment, and to a lesser extent within the Foodservice and International segments, for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we completed the sale of our Del Monte processed fruit and vegetable business in Canada for combined proceeds of $32.2 million. The results of operations of the divested Del Monte business were included in our International segment for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. General The following comments pertain to all of our reporting segments. Conagra Brands is a branded consumer packaged goods food company that operates in many sectors of the food industry, with a significant focus on the sale of branded, private branded, and value-added consumer food, as well as foodservice items and ingredients. We use many different raw materials, the bulk of which are commodities. The prices paid for raw materials used in making our food generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and generally available from numerous sources. From time to time, we have faced increased costs for many of our significant raw materials, packaging, and energy inputs. We seek to mitigate higher input costs through productivity and pricing initiatives and the use of derivative instruments to economically hedge a portion of forecasted future consumption. We experience intense competition for sales of our food items in our major markets. Our food items compete with widely advertised, well-known, branded food, as well as private branded and customized food items. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we have. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, value, customer service, brand recognition, and brand loyalty. Demand for certain of our food items may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events. For example, sales of frozen foods tend to be marginally higher during the winter months, seafood sales are highest during Lent, in advance of the Easter holiday, and production of certain of our products occurs seasonally, during or immediately following the purchase of agricultural crops. We manufacture, primarily for stock and fill, our customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant. Our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, licensing agreements, trade secrets, patents, and copyrights are of material importance to our business and we attempt to protect such rights by pursuing remedies available to us under trademark, copyright, trade secret, and patent laws, as well as entering into licensing, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. Some of our food items are sold under brands that have been licensed from others, including P.F. Chang s , Bertolli , and Libby s trademarks. We also own certain intellectual property rights that are licensed to third parties, such as the Alexia trademark. While many of these licensing arrangements are perpetual in nature, others must be periodically renegotiated or renewed pursuant to the terms of such licensing arrangement. We also actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, although no single patent is considered material to the business as a whole. We have proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes, and other intellectual property rights that are not registered. Many of our facilities and products we make are subject to various laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the food safety and quality, sanitation, safety and health matters, and environmental control. We believe that we comply with such laws and regulations in all material respects and that continued compliance with such regulations will not have a material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position. 5 Our largest customer, Walmart, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 26% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2020 and 24% of consolidated net sales for each of fiscal 2019 and 2018 . As of May 31, 2020, Conagra Brands and its subsidiaries had approximately 16,500 employees, primarily in the United States. Approximately 52% of our employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements. Of the employees subject to collective bargaining agreements, approximately 5% are parties to collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire during fiscal 2021. We believe our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are good. INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The names, ages, and positions of our executive officers as of July 24, 2020 are listed below: Name Title Capacity Age Year First Appointed an Executive Officer Sean M. Connolly President and Chief Executive Officer 54 2015 David S. Marberger Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 55 2016 Colleen R. Batcheler Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 46 2008 David B. Biegger Executive Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer 61 2015 Charisse Brock Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer 58 2015 Thomas M. McGough Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer 55 2013 Darren C. Serrao Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer 54 2015 Robert G. Wise Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller 52 2012 Sean M. Connolly has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since April 6, 2015. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of The Hillshire Brands Company (a branded food products company) from June 2012 to August 2014, Executive Vice President of Sara Lee Corporation (the predecessor to Hillshire), and Chief Executive Officer, Sara Lee North American Retail and Foodservice, from January 2012 to June 2012. Prior to joining Hillshire, Mr. Connolly served as President of Campbell North America, the largest division of Campbell Soup Company (a branded food products company), from October 2010 to December 2011, President, Campbell USA from 2008 to 2010, and President, North American Foodservice for Campbell from 2007 to 2008. Before joining Campbell in 2002, he served in various marketing and brand management roles at The Procter Gamble Company (a consumer packaged goods company). David S. Marberger has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2016. Prior to joining Conagra Brands, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Prestige Brands Holdings, Inc. (a provider of over-the-counter healthcare products) from October 2015 until July 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Marberger served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Godiva Chocolatier, Inc. (a global manufacturer and supplier of premium chocolates) from 2008 until October 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Marberger served Tasty Baking Company (a manufacturer and supplier of baked goods) as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2006 to 2008 and as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to 2006. From 1993 until 2003, he served in various roles at Campbell Soup Company (a branded food products company), where he last held the position of Vice President, Finance, Food and Beverage Division. Colleen R. Batcheler has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since September 2009 and served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from February 2008 until September 2009. Ms. Batcheler joined Conagra Brands in June 2006 as Vice President, Chief Securities Counsel and Assistant Corporate Secretary. In September 2006, she was named Corporate Secretary. From 2003 until joining Conagra Brands, Ms. Batcheler served as Vice President and Corporate Secretary of Albertson's, Inc. (a retail food and drug chain). Prior to that, she served as Associate Counsel with The Cleveland Clinic Foundation (a non-profit academic medical center) and an associate with Jones Day (a law firm). David B. Biegger has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer since October 2015. Prior to joining Conagra Brands, Mr. Biegger spent nearly 11 years at the Campbell Soup Company (a branded food products company), where he served as Senior Vice President, Global Supply Chain from February 2014 until October 2015 and was responsible for the global supply chain of that company, including manufacturing, quality, safety, engineering, procurement, logistics, 6 environmental sustainability , and customer service. Prior to joining Campbell Soup Company, he spent 24 years in supply chain roles at The Procter Gamble Co mpany (a consumer packaged goods co mpany ). Charisse Brock has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2015 and as Senior Vice President and Interim Chief Human Resources Officer from August 2015 until November 2015. Prior to serving in these roles, Ms. Brock served as Vice President of Human Resources for the Consumer Foods segment of Conagra Brands from September 2010 until August 2015. Ms. Brock joined Conagra Brands in 2004 as Director of Human Resources, supporting the Refrigerated Foods Group. Prior to joining Conagra Brands, she served for 15 years at The Quaker Oats Company (a branded food products company) (which was acquired by PepsiCo during her tenure) in its Consumer Foods Division. Thomas M. McGough has served as Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer since October 2018. Prior to that, he served as the Company's President, Operating Segments from May 2017 until October 2018 and as the Company's President of Consumer Foods from May 2013 until May 2017. Mr. McGough also served as President, Grocery Products from 2011 until May 2013 and as Vice President in the Company's Consumer Foods organization from 2007 to 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. McGough served in various roles at H.J. Heinz (a food processing company), where he began his career in 1990. Darren C. Serrao has served as Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Operating Officer since October 2018. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Growth Officer from August 2015 to October 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Serrao served as Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer at Campbell Soup Company (a branded food products company) from February 2015 until August 2015 and as Senior Vice President of Innovation and Business Development for Campbell North America from July 2011 until February 2015. Mr. Serrao has also held several profit and loss and marketing positions during his career, including roles with PepsiCo and Unilever. Robert G. Wise has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since December 2012. Mr. Wise joined Conagra Brands in March 2003 and has held various positions of increasing responsibility with Conagra Brands, including Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller from March 2006 until January 2012 and Vice President, Corporate Controller from January 2012 until December 2012. Prior to joining Conagra Brands, Mr. Wise served in various roles at KPMG LLP (an accounting firm) from October 1995 until March 2003. Foreign Operations Foreign operations information is set forth in Note 20 "Business Segments and Related Information" to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. Available Information We make available, free of charge through the "Investors Financial Reports Filings" link on our Internet website at http://www.conagrabrands.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We use our Internet website, through the "Investors" link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. The information on our website is not, and will not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any of our other filings with the SEC. We have also posted on our website our (1) Corporate Governance Principles, (2) Code of Conduct, (3) Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers, and (4) Charters for the Audit/Finance Committee, Nominating, Governance and Public Affairs Committee, and Human Resources Committee. Shareholders may also obtain copies of these items at no charge by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Conagra Brands, Inc., 222 Merchandise Mart Plaza, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL, 60654.