ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Carrier Global Corporation is a leading global provider of healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent building and cold chain solutions. Our portfolio includes industry-leading brands such as Carrier, Kidde, Edwards, LenelS2, Carrier Transicold and Automated Logic that offer innovative heating, ventilating and air conditioning ("HVAC"), refrigeration, fire, security and building automation technologies to help make the world safer and more comfortable. We also provide a broad array of related building services, including audit, design, installation, system integration, repair, maintenance and monitoring. Our worldwide operations are affected by global and regional industrial, economic and political factors and trends. These include the mega-trends of urbanization, climate change and increasing requirements for food safety driven by the food needs of a growing global population and the rising standards of living in emerging markets. We believe that our business segments are well positioned to benefit from favorable secular trends, including these mega-trends and from the strength of our industry-leading brands and track record of innovation. In addition, we regularly review our markets to proactively identify trends and adapt our strategies accordingly. Our operations are classified into three segments: HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire Security. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our net sales were $20.6 billion and our operating profit was $2.6 billion. Our net sales for 2021 were derived from the Americas (54%), Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") (29%) and Asia-Pacific (17%). Our international operations, including U.S. export sales, represented approximately 52% of our net sales for 2021. During the same period, new equipment comprised 73% and aftermarket comprised 27% of our net sales. Sales by Segment * Net Sales by Region Sales by Type * Segment sales include inter-company sales. Separation from United Technologies Corporation On April 3, 2020 (the "Distribution Date"), United Technologies Corporation, since renamed Raytheon Technologies Corporation ("UTC") completed the spin-off of Carrier into an independent publicly traded company (the "Separation") through a pro rata distribution (the "Distribution") of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company to UTC shareowners. Our common stock is listed under the symbol "CARR" on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). In connection with the Separation, we issued an aggregate principal balance of $11.0 billion of debt and transferred approximately $10.9 billion of cash to UTC on February 27, 2020 and March 27, 2020. In addition, we entered into several agreements with UTC and Otis Worldwide Corporation ("Otis") that govern various aspects of the relationship among us, UTC and Otis following the Separation and the Distribution including the Transition Services Agreement ("TSA"), which expired on March 31, 2021, the Tax Matters Agreement ("TMA"), an employee matters agreement and an intellectual property agreement. Income and expense under these agreements are not material. On April 1, 2020 and April 2, 2020, we received cash contributions totaling $590 million from UTC related to the Separation. 4 T able of Contents Sale of Chubb Fire and Security Business On January 3, 2022, we completed the sale of our Chubb Fire and Security business ("Chubb") to APi Group Corporation ("APi") pursuant to a stock purchase agreement for an enterprise value of $3.1 billion (the "Chubb Sale Agreement"). Chubb, reported within our Fire Security segment, delivers essential fire safety and security solutions from design and installation to monitoring, service and maintenance across more than 17 countries around the globe. The purchase price is subject to working capital and other adjustments as provided in the Chubb Sale Agreement. Consistent with our capital allocation strategy, the net proceeds of approximately $2.6 billion will be used to fund investments in organic and inorganic growth initiatives and capital returns to our shareowners as well as for general corporate purposes. Business Strategy Our business strategy is to be the world leader in healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent building and cold chain solutions which we believe is supported by a variety of favorable secular trends. We are focused on three pillars of growth to execute our business strategy: Strengthen and Grow our Core. Our strategy involves driving organic growth in part by maintaining our proven track record of innovation, which is focused on designing smarter, more connected and more sustainable systems and solutions. Our strategy also relies on our iconic, industry-leading brands and on strengthening our long-term relationships with channel partners and customers by offering solutions that anticipate customer needs related to healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent building and cold chain solutions with a focus on technologies related to environmentally-friendly refrigerants, energy efficiency, low emissions, air quality, electrification, noise reduction and safety. Increase Product Extensions and Geographic Coverage. Our strategy involves leveraging our global operations, the strength of our iconic, industry-leading brands and our success in creating valuable partnerships to focus on targeted expansion into new locations and channels where we believe that we can drive profitable growth. We are also focused on emerging trends in our segments; namely, healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent buildings and cold chain solutions. We believe that we are well-positioned to meet the demand expected to result from these trends through products such as our Infinity whole home air purifier and the OptiClean Dual-Mode Air Scrubber Negative Air Machine for commercial building and home applications, and through products such as Carrier Pods monitored by Sensitech that can help ensure the safe storage and transport of food and medicines. Grow Aftermarket and Digital. Our strategy is focused on bringing differentiated parts and service solutions to our customers across the entire product lifecycle. Our BluEdge service platform builds on our history of innovation and our expertise as an original equipment manufacturer. The platform offers a tiered suite of services across our HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire Security segments. Through our understanding of customer needs and investments in connected equipment and digital service solutions, BluEdge helps us achieve enhanced equipment efficiency and performance key components of our Healthy Buildings, Healthy Homes and Connected Cold Chain Programs. In order to differentiate our products and services, drive productivity and support operating efficiency for our customers and our channels, we leverage innovative digital capabilities across our business segments. Abound is a cloud-based building platform that unlocks and unites building data to create more healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent solutions for indoor spaces. It gathers data from disparate systems, sensors and sources; identifies opportunities to optimize performance; and works with healthy building solutions to improve occupant experiences. In addition, our product teams are deriving insights from data by employing Amazon Web Services ( AWS ) for connectivity, artificial intelligence and machine learning. Carrier's Lynx digital platform was recognized among Fast Company s 2021 World Changing Ideas. Our Lynx digital platform, developed in collaboration with AWS, allows customers to leverage data to enhance visibility, resiliency, agility and efficiency in the cold chain to reduce loss and support real-time decisions. Our industry-leading global brands and track record of innovation form the foundation of our business strategy. This strategy is fueled by our position at the epicenter of important secular trends including an emphasis on health and wellness, a growing focus on sustainability and increasing digitalization. Coupled with our focus on growth, innovation and operational efficiency, we expect to drive long-term growth and increased value for our shareowners. 5 T able of Contents Business Segments We globally manage our business operations through three segments: HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire Security. Financial information related to our segments is included in Note 21 Segment Financial Data in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each respective segment's major products, services and distribution methods are as follows: HVAC. The HVAC segment provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating, cooling and ventilation needs of residential and commercial customers while enhancing building performance, health, energy efficiency and sustainability. Our established brands include Automated Logic, Bryant, Carrier, CIAT, Day Night, Heil, NORESCO and Riello which offer an innovative and complete portfolio of products that provide numerous solutions for our customers. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation systems. Some of these products are part of Carrier s Healthy Buildings Program, which offers a suite of targeted solutions that are focused on improving and optimizing indoor air quality in buildings and homes to enhance human health, safety and productivity. Products and solutions are sold directly to building contractors and owners and indirectly through joint ventures, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Refrigeration. The Refrigeration segment provides a healthier, safer, more sustainable and more intelligent cold chain through the reliable transport and preservation of food, medicine and other perishable cargo. Products and services are sold under established brand names, including Carrier Commercial Refrigeration, Carrier Transicold and Sensitech. Our refrigeration and monitoring products, services and digital solutions, which form Carrier's Healthy, Safe, Sustainable and Intelligent Cold Chain offering, strengthen the connected cold chain and are designed for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal applications, food retail and warehouse cooling. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls which incorporate next-generation technologies to preserve freshness, ensure safety and enhance the appearance of food and beverages sold by retailers. Products and services are sold directly to transportation companies and retail stores and indirectly through joint ventures, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers and dealers. Fire Security. The Fire Security segment provides a wide range of residential, commercial and industrial technologies designed to help protect people and property. Our established brands include Kidde, Edwards, GST, LenelS2, Marioff, Autronica, Aritech, Det-Tronics, Onity, Supra and Fireye which provide product and technology innovations that are supported by installation, maintenance and monitoring through a network of channel partners and our own field service business, along with web-based and mobile applications and cloud-based services. Products include fire, flame, gas, smoke and carbon monoxide detection, portable fire extinguishers, fire suppression systems, intruder alarms, access control systems and video management systems and electronic controls. Other fire and security service offerings include audit, design, installation and system integration as well as aftermarket maintenance and repair and monitoring services. Our fire and security products and solutions, also part of Carrier's Healthy Homes and Healthy Buildings Program, are sold directly to end customers as well as through manufacturers representatives, distributors, dealers, value-added resellers and retail distribution. Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole Competitive Conditions Each of our businesses is subject to significant competition from a number of companies throughout the world. Due to the nature of our products and services and the markets we serve, our competition can vary from regional or specialized companies to larger public or private companies. Some of our key competitors include Daikin Industries, Trane Technologies, Johnson Controls, Lennox International, Honeywell, Siemens, Bosch, Assa Abloy, MSA Safety, Stanley Black Decker, Newell Brands, Midea Group, Mitsubishi Electric and China International Marine Containers. The most significant competitive factors we face are technology differentiation, product performance, service, delivery schedule and price. Brand reputation, service to customers and quality are also important competitive factors for our products and services. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we are a significant competitor with respect to each of our major product and service offerings. We believe that the loss of any individual contract or customer would not have a material adverse effect on our results. 6 T able of Contents Raw Materials and Supplies We rely on suppliers and commodity markets to secure components and raw materials such as copper, aluminum and steel. In addition, we also use semi-conductors and other electronic components in the manufacture of our products. To maximize our buying effectiveness in the marketplace, we have a central strategic sourcing group that consolidates purchases of certain materials and components across our business segments. The ongoing global economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant challenges for global supply chains resulting in inflationary cost pressures, component shortages and transportation delays. As a result, we have incurred incremental costs for commodities and components used in our products as well as component shortages and higher freight costs that have negatively impacted our sales and results of operations. We expect that these challenges will continue to have an impact on our businesses for the foreseeable future. We continue to take proactive steps to limit the impact of these challenges and are working closely with our suppliers to ensure availability of products and implement other cost savings initiatives. In addition, we continue to invest in our operations and supply chain to improve its resilience with a focus on automation, dual sourcing of critical components and localized manufacturing when feasible. To date, there has been moderate disruption to the availability of our products, though it is possible that more significant disruptions could occur if these supply chain challenges continue. Intellectual Property We maintain a broad portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to our business to protect our research and development investments and to maintain our competitive advantages. We hold approximately 9,000 active patents and pending patent applications worldwide. From time to time, we take actions to protect our business by asserting our intellectual property rights against third-party infringers. We believe that we have taken reasonable measures to build and protect this portfolio of intellectual property rights, but we cannot be assured that these rights will not be challenged, found invalid or unenforceable. Operating System We plan to continue to foster operational, financial and commercial excellence to drive sales and earnings growth. With roots in our legacy manufacturing and business processes, the Carrier operating system Carrier Excellence is our continuous improvement framework that is expected to drive operational excellence across our businesses. Our Supplier Excellence program is intended to apply these same operating principles to our supply base. We also implemented a strategic cost reduction initiative in 2020 that targeted eliminating $700 million in costs over three years through operational efficiency, digitalization, automation and supply chain productivity ("Carrier 700"). This initiative has helped reduce the impact of inflationary pressures experienced during 2021. Joint Ventures and Strategic Relationships Our joint ventures and strategic relationships are an important part of our business. We hold direct ownership interests in approximately 34 joint ventures, the financial results of which are accounted for by the equity method of accounting or the cost basis of accounting, of which 99% of such investments are in our HVAC segment. These relationships engage in distribution, manufacturing and product development activities and are integral to our business operations and growth strategy. Seasonality Demand for certain of our products and services is seasonal and can be impacted by weather conditions. For instance, sales and services of our HVAC products to residential customers have historically been higher in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, which represent the peak seasons for air conditioning-related sales in North America markets. A change in building and remodeling activity also can affect our financial performance. In addition, our financial performance may be influenced by the production and utilization of transport equipment, including truck production cycles in North America and Europe. 7 T able of Contents Compliance with the Regulation of our Business and Operations We operate our business and sell our products all over the world. As a result, rapid changes in legislation, regulations and government policies, including with respect to regulations intended to combat climate change, affect our operations and business in the countries, regions and localities in which we operate and sell our products. International accords such as the Paris Agreement and the subsequent U.S. climate policies to meet its nationally determined contributions as well as local regulations in the U.S. reducing the use of fossil fuels in buildings all have the potential to impact our products and service offerings. Such changes, which can render our products and technologies non-compliant, involve refrigerants, noise levels, product and fire safety, hydrofluorocarbon emissions, fluorinated gases, hazardous substances and electric and electronic equipment waste. Increased fragmentation of regulatory requirements changes the manner in which we conduct our business and increases our costs because it necessitates the development of country or regional specific variants, monitoring of and compliance with those regulations and additional testing and certifications. In addition, our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulations promulgated by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and by authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, capital expenditures to design and upgrade our products to comply with or exceed environmental and other regulations and energy efficiency standards. However, it is our opinion that the costs related to compliance requirements for environmental or other government regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, financial results or competitive position. Environmental Goals As a leading global provider of healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent buildings and cold chain solutions, we are committed to making the world safer, sustainable and more comfortable. We have set ambitious environmental, social and governance goals to be reached by 2030, which include the following: Invest over $2 billion to develop healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent buildings and cold chain solutions that incorporate sustainable design principles and reduce lifecycle impacts, Reduce our customers' carbon footprint by more than 1 gigaton, Achieve carbon neutral operations, Reduce energy intensity by 10% across our operations, Achieve water neutrality in our operations, prioritizing water-scarce locations, and Promote sustainability through education, partnerships and climate resiliency programs. Human Capital Management As of December 31, 2021, Carrier had approximately 58,000 employees worldwide, of which 34% are located in the Americas, 37% are located in EMEA and 29% are located in Asia. As of December 31, 2021, in the U.S., approximately 70% of Carrier's approximately 4,700 production and maintenance employees were covered under six collective bargaining agreements that have expiration dates ranging from 2022 to 2025. In the European Union, approximately 19,000 employees are represented by two European Works Councils and, at national and local levels, we inform and consult with 58 local works councils and with unions representing employees at approximately 40 sites. We believe that our relations with our labor unions and works councils are generally good. We believe that our employees are our most important asset and that, in turn, our success and growth depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain and develop a diverse population of talented and high-performing employees at all levels of our organization. We continuously evaluate, modify and enhance our recruitment and retention strategies, objectives and measures as part of the overall management of our business. These strategies, objectives and measures form the pillars of our human capital management framework and are advanced through the following programs, policies and initiatives. Health Safety. Our Environmental, Health and Safety program is focused on eliminating the risk of serious injuries, illness and fatalities to employees, contractors and customers during manufacturing, installation, servicing and other business activities by applying rigorous standards, controls, inspections and audits to help ensure that our operations and premises comply with national and local regulations and Carrier incident reporting requirements. For 2021, our total recordable incident rate ("TRIR") based upon the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked for our employees in the U.S. was 0.35 and our lost time incident rate ("LTIR") was 0.11. 8 T able of Contents In response to COVID-19, we implemented various measures to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers including work-from-home requirements (where practical), social distancing and deep cleaning protocols at all of our facilities as well as travel restrictions, among other measures, which comply with applicable governmental regulations and guidance. Competitive Pay, Benefits and Total Rewards and Practices. Carrier's total rewards philosophy is designed to align the compensation of our employees with individual and Company performance, and to provide the appropriate market-competitive incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior results. In addition, we offer a company-paid assistance program to help employees and their families with mental health and other life challenges. In coordination with each country s social welfare system, and in addition to any required local health care participation, we may provide additional health and welfare benefits depending on, among other things, the market competitiveness in that country. We also offer a tuition assistance program that is discussed in more detail below (see Talent Development and Employee Engagement ). Inclusion Diversity. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 27% of our employees and 32% of our executives globally were women. As of December 31, 2021, people of color represented approximately 27% of our U.S. executive and 24% of our professional employees in the U.S. Our greatest strength is the diversity of our people and their ideas and experiences; inclusion and diversity are the cornerstones of our values and we believe that it is a source of innovation. To this end, we continue to promote _belong , our inclusion and diversity philosophy and brand as well as an inclusion and diversity strategy that consists of four tenets Reduce the Gap, Develop Sponsor, Drive Inclusion and Lean Forward which include a focus on recruitment, development and mentoring activities. We also sponsor multiple Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs"), such as Pride, Carrier Black Alliance, WE (Women's Empowerment at Carrier), CHEER (Carrier Hispanic Latino Employee Engagement Resource group), UCAN (United Carrier Asian Network) and Military and Veterans. These ERGs operate with a formal leadership structure, a steering committee, senior leadership sponsorship and a defined mission statement that is aligned with supporting Carrier s business strategy. We also have established multi-year relationships with two historically Black colleges and universities to create programs to help students develop skills for the future and provide career and recruitment initiatives. We continue to take steps to expand our role as an employer that champions inclusion, diversity and equality of opportunity. Carrier has pledged to achieve gender parity in senior leadership roles by 2030. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") has signed the CEO Action for Diversity Inclusion TM pledge joining more than 2,000 CEO's to underscore our commitment to ensure inclusion is core to our business culture. Our senior management has also signed the Hispanic Promise, joining other Fortune 500 companies in the pledge to hire, retain and develop Hispanics in the workplace. Additionally, we continue to provide our global workforce with inclusion and diversity training with a focus on unconscious bias, micro-aggression and allyship. While we recognize more work needs to be done, we are proud of the strides we have made and the recognition we have received in furthering our inclusion and diversity strategy. In 2021, Carrier participated for the first time in the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's 2021 Corporate Equality Index and achieved a perfect score being recognized Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality. Talent Development and Employee Engagement. We are committed to the continued development and engagement of our people. We promote continuous learning by offering a company-sponsored Employee Scholar Program, which covers the cost of an employee's tuition, academic fees and books at approved universities. We conduct annual leadership development reviews, a process through which senior leaders identify future leaders and discuss strengths and development opportunities, fostering succession planning for key leadership positions. We also have developed various talent development programs, such as internships, early career rotational programs and a suite of development programs for current and future leaders during the three critical stages of their careers early career, mid-career and senior leadership. Three-times per year we conduct an anonymous online survey in local languages to solicit feedback from our employees. The results are reviewed by our senior leadership and shared with our managers and other employees who collaborate to act on identified areas of improvement. Corporate Information Carrier was incorporated in Delaware in connection with the Separation. Prior to the Distribution, Carrier had no operations other than those incidental to the Separation. Our principal executive offices are located at 13995 Pasteur Boulevard, Palm 9 T able of Contents Beach Gardens, Florida 33418, and our telephone number is (561) 365-2000. We maintain an Internet website at www.corporate.carrier.com .