ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Carrier Global Corporation ("we" or "our" or the "Company") is a global leader in intelligent climate and energy solutions with a focus on providing differentiated, digitally-enabled lifecycle solutions to our customers. Our portfolio includes industry-leading brands such as Carrier, Toshiba, Automated Logic, Carrier Transicold, Kidde, Edwards and LenelS2 that offer innovative heating, ventilating and air conditioning ("HVAC"), refrigeration, fire, security and building automation technologies to help make the world safer and more comfortable. We also provide a broad array of related building services, including audit, design, installation, system integration, repair, maintenance and monitoring. Our worldwide operations are affected by global and regional industrial, economic and political factors and trends. These include the mega-trends of urbanization, climate change and increasing requirements for food safety driven by the food needs of a growing global population and the rising standards of living in emerging markets. We believe that our business segments are well positioned to benefit from favorable secular trends, including these mega-trends and from the strength of our industry-leading brands and track record of innovation. In addition, we regularly review our end markets to proactively identify trends and adapt our strategies accordingly. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our net sales were $22.1 billion and our operating profit was $2.3 billion. Our net sales for 2023 were derived from the Americas (58%), Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") (22%) and Asia-Pacific (20%). Our international operations, including U.S. export sales, represented approximately 48% of our net sales for 2023. During the same period, new equipment comprised 76% and parts and service comprised 24% of our net sales. Sales by Segment * Net Sales by Region Sales by Type * Segment sales include inter-company sales. Separation from United Technologies Corporation On April 3, 2020 (the "Distribution Date"), United Technologies Corporation, ("UTC"), since renamed RTX Corporation ("Raytheon Technologies Corporation" or "RTX") completed the spin-off of Carrier into an independent publicly traded company (the "Separation") through a pro rata distribution (the "Distribution") on a one-for-one basis of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Carrier to UTC shareowners who held shares of UTC common stock as of the close of business on March 19, 2020, the record date of the Distribution. In connection with the Separation, we issued an aggregate principal balance of $11.0 billion of debt and transferred approximately $10.9 billion of cash to UTC on February 27, 2020 and March 27, 2020. In addition, we entered into several agreements with UTC and Otis Worldwide Corporation ("Otis") that govern various aspects of the relationship among us, UTC and Otis following the Separation and Distribution. As of December 31, 2023, only certain portions of the Tax Matters Agreement ("TMA") remain in effect. On April 1, 2020 and April 2, 2020, we received cash contributions totaling $590 million from UTC related to the Separation. 4 Table of Contents Business Segments We globally manage our business operations through three segments: HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire Security. Each respective segment's major products, services and distribution methods are as follows: The HVAC segment provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating, cooling and ventilation needs of residential and commercial customers while enhancing building performance, health, energy efficiency and sustainability. Our established brands include Carrier, Toshiba, Automated Logic, Bryant, CIAT, Day Night, Heil, NORESCO and Riello which offer an innovative and complete portfolio of products that provide numerous solutions for our customers. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, heat pumps, controls and aftermarket components as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation systems. Some of these products are part of our Healthy Buildings Program, which offers a suite of targeted solutions that are focused on improving and optimizing indoor air quality in buildings and homes to enhance human health, safety and productivity. Products and solutions are sold directly to building contractors and owners and indirectly through joint ventures, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. The Refrigeration segment provides a healthier, safer, more sustainable and more intelligent cold chain through the reliable transport and preservation of food, medicine and other perishable cargo. Products and services are sold under established brand names, including Carrier Commercial Refrigeration, Carrier Transicold and Sensitech. Our refrigeration and monitoring products, services and digital solutions, which form our Connected Cold Chain offering, strengthen the connected cold chain and are designed for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal applications, food retail and warehouse cooling. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls which incorporate next-generation technologies to preserve freshness, ensure safety and enhance the appearance of food and beverages sold by retailers. Products and services are sold directly to transportation companies and retail stores and indirectly through joint ventures, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers and dealers. The Fire Security segment provides a wide range of residential, commercial and industrial technologies designed to help protect people and property. Our established brands include Kidde, Edwards, GST, LenelS2, Marioff, Autronica, Aritech, Det-Tronics, Onity, Supra and Fireye which provide product and technology innovations that are supported by installation, maintenance and monitoring through a network of channel partners and our own field service business, along with web-based and mobile applications and cloud-based services. Products include fire, flame, gas, smoke and carbon monoxide detection, portable fire extinguishers, fire suppression systems, intruder alarms, access control systems and video management systems and electronic controls. Other fire and security service offerings include audit, design, installation and system integration as well as aftermarket maintenance and repair and monitoring services. Our fire and security products and solutions, also part of our Healthy Homes and Healthy Buildings Programs, are sold directly to end customers as well as through manufacturers representatives, distributors, dealers, value-added resellers and retail distribution. Planned Portfolio Transformation On April 25, 2023, we announced that we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the Agreement ) to acquire the climate solutions business (the "VCS Business") of Viessmann Group GmbH Co. KG ( Viessmann ), a privately-held company. The VCS Business develops intelligent, integrated and sustainable technologies, including heat pumps, boilers, photovoltaic systems, home battery storage and digital solutions, primarily for residential customers in Europe. The acquisition was completed on January 2, 2024 for total consideration of $14.2 billion. On April 25, 2023, we announced plans to exit our Fire Security and Commercial Refrigeration businesses over the course of 2024. On December 7, 2023, we entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell our Fire Security Access Solutions business to Honeywell International Inc. for an enterprise value of approximately $4.95 billion. On December 12, 2023, we entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell our Commercial Refrigeration business ("CCR") to Haier Group Corporation for an enterprise value of approximately $775 million. Both transactions are expected to close in 2024 and are subject to customary closing conditions. Business Strategy Our business strategy is to be a global leader in intelligent climate and energy solutions with a focus on providing differentiated, digitally-enabled lifecycle solutions to our customers. We believe our strategy is supported by a variety of 5 Table of Contents favorable secular trends, including health and wellness, sustainability, digitalization, decarbonization, energy transition and a growing middle class. In order to execute our business strategy, we are focused on three pillars of growth: Strengthen and Grow our Core Our strategy involves driving organic growth in part by maintaining our proven track record of innovation, which is focused on designing smarter, more connected and more sustainable systems and solutions. Our strategy also relies on our iconic, industry-leading brands and on strengthening our long-term relationships with channel partners and customers by offering solutions that anticipate customer needs with a focus on technologies related to environmentally-friendly refrigerants, energy efficiency, low emissions, air quality, electrification, noise reduction and safety. In addition, we continue to actively manage and strengthen our business and product portfolio to meet the current and future needs of our customers. This is driven by sustaining activities with a focus on improving existing products and reducing production costs. We also pursue potential acquisitions to complement existing products and services to enhance our product portfolio. Increase Product Extensions and Geographic Coverage Our strategy involves leveraging our global operations, the strength of our iconic, industry-leading brands and our success in creating valuable partnerships to focus on targeted expansion into new locations and channels where we believe that we can drive profitable growth. These drivers are supported by research and development activities with a focus on new product development and new technology innovation. We also pursue potential acquisitions to enter new locations and channels as well as expand and enhance our current product portfolio. In addition, Carrier Ventures, our global venture capital wholly-owned subsidiary, focuses on investments to accelerate the development of sustainable innovations and disruptive technologies to transform future building and cold chain management. It engages in strategic partnerships with high growth organizations as they invest in the development of technologies to innovate and commercialize the next generation of integrated renewable offerings. Grow Aftermarket, Digital and Customer-Back Solutions Our strategy is focused on offering a comprehensive and differentiated suite of sustainable technologies and services. We expect that these solutions will increase our total available market opportunity, enhance our predictive service and maintenance capabilities, strengthen our customer intimacy and fuel aftermarket growth. For example, Abound is a cloud-based building platform that unlocks and unites building data to create healthy, sustainable and intelligent solutions for indoor spaces. It gathers data from disparate systems, sensors and sources; identifies opportunities to optimize performance; and works with healthy building solutions to improve occupant experiences. Our Lynx digital platform, developed in collaboration with Amazon Web Services ( AWS ), allows customers to leverage data to enhance visibility, resiliency, agility and efficiency in the cold chain to reduce losses and support real-time decisions. In addition, our product teams are deriving insights from data by employing AWS for connectivity, artificial intelligence and machine learning. Most recently, we signed a multi-year, strategic collaboration agreement with AWS to offer additional Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") solutions in the areas of HVAC performance, sustainability and safety and security. The collaboration is part of our growing investment in digitally-enabled lifecycle solutions designed to inspire confidence in the health and safety of indoor environments. As power grids and transport infrastructure shift from fossil fuels to renewables, we will continue to position ourselves as a leader in innovative electrified solutions that reduce emissions and energy consumption and promote grid stability. Our solutions range from residential home energy management to sustainable solutions for commercial and industrial buildings to optimized low noise and low greenhouse gas emission transport solutions. With the addition of the VCS Business on January 2, 2024, we are strongly positioned to provide renewable and complete energy solutions globally, with a portfolio that includes low global warming potential high temperature heat pumps for use in industrial and commercial applications, natural refrigerant heat pumps for residential buildings and a connected ecosystem of offerings for an electric home, such as solar PV, batteries, and a differentiated digital platform, all supported by extensive service and aftermarket offerings. Our industry-leading global brands and track record of innovation form the foundation of our business strategy. This strategy is fueled by our position at the epicenter of important secular trends, including an emphasis on health and wellness, a growing focus on sustainability, increasing digitalization and energy transition. Coupled with our focus on growth, innovation and operational efficiency, we expect to drive long-term growth and increased value. 6 Table of Contents Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole Competitive Conditions Each of our businesses is subject to significant competition from a number of companies throughout the world. Due to the nature of our products and services and the markets we serve, our competition can vary from regional or specialized companies to larger public or private companies. The most significant competitive factors we face are technology differentiation, product performance, service, delivery schedule and price. Brand reputation, service to customers and quality are also important competitive factors for our products and services. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we are a significant competitor with respect to each of our major product and service offerings. We believe that the loss of any individual contract or customer would not have a material adverse effect on our results. Raw Materials and Supplies We rely on suppliers and commodity markets to secure components and raw materials such as copper, aluminum and steel. In addition, we also use semi-conductors and other electronic components in the manufacture of our products. To maximize our buying effectiveness and leverage our scale, we have a central strategic sourcing group that consolidates purchases of certain materials and components across our business segments. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure availability of products and implement other cost savings initiatives. In addition, we continue to invest in our supply chain to improve its resilience with a focus on automation, dual sourcing of critical components and localized manufacturing when feasible. Intellectual Property We maintain a broad portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to our business to protect our research and development investments and to maintain our competitive advantages. We hold approximately 14,000 active patents and pending patent applications worldwide. From time to time, we take actions to protect our business by asserting our intellectual property rights against third-party infringement. We believe that we have taken reasonable measures to build and protect this portfolio of intellectual property rights, but we cannot be assured that these rights will not be challenged, found invalid or unenforceable. Operating System We plan to continue to foster operational, financial and commercial excellence to drive sales and earnings growth. With roots in our legacy manufacturing and business processes, the Carrier operating system Carrier Excellence is our continuous improvement framework that is expected to drive operational excellence across our businesses. Our Supplier Excellence program is intended to apply these same operating principles to our supply base and we continue to focus on strategic cost reductions through operational efficiency, digitalization, automation and supply chain productivity. Joint Ventures and Strategic Relationships Our joint ventures and strategic relationships are an important part of our business. We hold direct ownership interests in approximately 47 joint ventures, the financial results of which are accounted for by the equity method of accounting or the cost basis of accounting, of which 97% of such investments are in our HVAC segment. These relationships engage in distribution, manufacturing and product development activities and are integral to our business operations and growth strategy. Seasonality Demand for certain of our products and services is seasonal and can be impacted by weather conditions. For instance, sales and services of our HVAC products to residential customers have historically been higher in the second and third quarters of the calendar year, which represent the peak seasons for air conditioning-related sales in North America markets. A change in building and remodeling activity also can affect our financial performance. In addition, our financial performance may be influenced by the production and utilization of transport equipment, including truck production cycles in North America and Europe. 7 Table of Contents Compliance with the Regulation of our Business and Operations We operate our businesses and sell our products all over the world. As a result, rapid changes in legislation, regulations and government policies, including with respect to regulations intended to combat climate change, affect our operations and business in the countries, regions and localities in which we operate and sell our products. International accords such as the Paris Agreement and the subsequent U.S. climate policies to meet its nationally determined contributions as well as local regulations in the U.S. reducing the use of fossil fuels in buildings all have the potential to impact our products and service offerings. Such changes, which can render our products and technologies non-compliant, involve refrigerants, noise levels, product and fire safety, hydrofluorocarbon emissions, fluorinated gases, hazardous substances and electric and electronic equipment waste. Increased fragmentation of regulatory requirements changes the manner in which we conduct our business and increases our costs because it necessitates the development of country or regional specific variants, monitoring of and compliance with those regulations and additional testing and certifications. In addition, our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulations promulgated by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and by authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, capital expenditures to design and upgrade our products to comply with or exceed environmental and other regulations and energy efficiency standards. However, it is our opinion that the costs related to compliance requirements for environmental or other government regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, financial results or competitive position. Environmental Goals As a global leader in intelligent climate and energy solutions, we are committed to making the world safer, sustainable and more comfortable. We have set ambitious environmental, social and governance goals to be reached by 2030, which include the following: Invest over $2 billion to develop healthy, safe, sustainable and intelligent buildings and cold chain solutions that incorporate sustainable design principles and reduce lifecycle impacts, Reduce our customers' carbon footprint by more than 1 gigaton, Achieve carbon neutral operations, Reduce energy intensity by 10% across our operations, Achieve water neutrality in our operations, prioritizing water-scarce locations, and Promote sustainability through education, partnerships and climate resiliency programs. Human Capital Management As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 53,000 employees worldwide, of which 39% are located in the Americas, 23% are located in EMEA and 38% are located in Asia. As of December 31, 2023, in the U.S., 75% of our approximately 4,300 production and maintenance employees were covered under six collective bargaining agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2024 to 2027. In Europe, approximately 11,000 employees are represented by two European Works Councils and, at national and local levels, we inform and consult with 46 local works councils and with unions representing employees at approximately 40 sites. We believe that our relations with our labor unions and works councils are generally good. We believe that our employees are our most important asset and that, in turn, our success and growth depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain and develop a diverse population of talented and high-performing employees at all levels of our organization. We continuously evaluate, modify and enhance our recruitment and retention strategies as part of the overall management of our business. These strategies form the pillars of our human capital management framework and are advanced through the following programs, policies and initiatives. Health Safety. Our Environmental, Health and Safety program is focused on eliminating the risk of serious injuries, illness and fatalities to employees, contractors and customers during manufacturing, installation, servicing and other business activities. We apply rigorous standards, controls, inspections and audits to help ensure that our operations and premises comply with national and local regulations and our incident reporting requirements. For 2023, our total recordable incident rate ("TRIR"), based upon the number of employee injuries per 200,000 hours worked, was 0.30 and our lost time incident rate ("LTIR") was 0.10, both of which improved compared with 2022. 8 Table of Contents Competitive Pay, Benefits and Total Rewards and Practices. Our total rewards philosophy is designed to align the compensation of our employees with individual and company performance, and to provide the appropriate market-competitive incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior results. In addition, we offer a company-paid employee assistance program to help employees and their families with mental health and other life challenges. In coordination with each country s social welfare system, and in addition to any required local health care participation, we may provide additional health and welfare benefits depending on, among other things, the market competitiveness in that country. We also offer a tuition assistance program, the Employee Scholar Program, that is discussed in more detail below (see Talent Development and Employee Engagement ). Inclusion Diversity. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 30% of our employees and 32% of our executives globally were women. As of December 31, 2023, people of color represented approximately 33% of our U.S. executive and 27% of our professional employees in the U.S. Our greatest strength is the global diversity of our people and inclusion is one of our core company values. We believe both are critical to employee engagement and ultimately, an important source of innovation. To this end, we continue to promote _belong as our inclusion and diversity philosophy which includes a focus on attracting, developing and mentoring the best talent. We also sponsor multiple Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs"), such as Pride, Carrier Black Alliance, WE (Women's Empowerment at Carrier), CHEER (Carrier Hispanic Latino Employee Engagement Resource group), UCAN (United Carrier Asian Network) and Military and Veterans. These ERGs have an open membership to all employees, operate with a formal leadership structure, a steering committee, senior leadership sponsorship and a defined mission statement that is aligned with supporting our business strategy. We have established relationships with colleges and universities in the United States, including two historically black colleges and universities, to create programs to help students develop skills for the future and provide career and recruitment initiatives. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") signed the CEO Action for Diversity Inclusion TM pledge joining more than 2,000 CEOs to underscore our commitment to ensure inclusion is core to our business culture. Our senior management has also signed the Hispanic Promise, joining other Fortune 500 companies in the pledge to hire, retain and develop Hispanics in the workplace. Additionally, we offer our global workforce the opportunity to participate in annual inclusion and diversity training. We are proud of the strides we have made and the recognition we have received in furthering our inclusion and diversity strategy. For example, in 2023, we participated in the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate Equality Index and achieved a perfect score for the third time, being recognized as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality. We also participated in the Human Rights Campaign Foundation s Corporate Equality Index in Mexico and achieved a perfect score being recognized as Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality in Mexico for the second year in a row. Talent Development and Employee Engagement. We are committed to the continued development and engagement of our people. We promote continuous learning by offering a company-sponsored Employee Scholar Program, which covers the cost of an employee's tuition, academic fees and books at approved universities. We conduct annual leadership development reviews, a process through which senior leaders identify future leaders and discuss strengths and development opportunities, fostering succession planning for key leadership positions. We also offer various talent development programs including internships, early career rotational programs and a suite of development programs for current and future leaders during the three critical stages of their careers early career, mid-career and senior leadership. Three-times per year we conduct a confidential online survey in local languages to solicit feedback from our employees. The results are reviewed by senior leadership and shared with our managers and other employees who collaborate to act on identified areas of improvement. Corporate Information Carrier was incorporated in Delaware in connection with the Separation on March 15, 2019. Our principal executive offices are located at 13995 Pasteur Boulevard, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida 33418, and our telephone number is (561) 365-2000. We maintain an Internet website at www.corporate.carrier.com . 9 Table of Contents