ITEM 1. Business 4 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 7 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 ITEM 2. Properties 15 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 15 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 15 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 18 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 27 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 28 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 51 ITEM 9B. Other Information 52 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 53 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 53 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 53 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 53 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 53 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 54 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 56 Signatures 57 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company Casey s General Stores, Inc. ( Casey s ) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (Casey s, together with its subsidiaries, are referred to herein as the Company or we ) operate convenience stores under the names "Casey's" and Casey s General Store (hereinafter referred to as Casey s Store or Stores ) in 16 Midwestern states, primarily in Iowa, Missouri, and Illinois. The Company also operates two stores under the name "Tobacco City", selling primarily tobacco and nicotine products, one liquor store, and one grocery store. The Casey's Stores carry a broad selection of food (including freshly prepared foods such as pizza, donuts, and sandwiches), beverages, tobacco and nicotine products, health and beauty aids, automotive products, and other nonfood items. In addition, all but three offer fuel for sale on a self-service basis. Our fiscal year runs from May 1 through April 30 of each year. On April 30, 2020 , there were a total of 2,207 stores in operation. There were 60 stores newly constructed in fiscal 2020 . We closed 13 stores in fiscal 2020 . We also acquired 18 additional stores in fiscal 2020 ; 11 of those stores were opened in fiscal 2020 , and seven will be opened during the 2021 fiscal year. Finally, we opened three acquisitions purchased in the prior year. Two distribution centers are in operation (in Ankeny, Iowa adjacent to the Store Support Center and in Terre Haute, Indiana) from which grocery and general merchandise items are supplied to our stores. Additionally, the Company is currently constructing a third distribution center in Joplin, Missouri. Casey s, with the Store Support Center located at One SE Convenience Blvd., Ankeny, Iowa 50021-8045 (telephone 515-965-6100), was incorporated in Iowa in 1967. Approximately 56% of all our stores were opened in areas with populations of fewer than 5,000 persons, while approximately 19% of our stores were opened in communities with populations exceeding 20,000 persons. The Company competes on the basis of price, as well as on the basis of traditional features of convenience store operations such as location, extended hours, product offerings, and quality of service. The Company s internet address is www.caseys.com. Each year we make available through our website all of our SEC filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our annual report on Form 10-K, and amendments to those reports, free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, you can go to our website to read our Financial Code of Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and committee charters. In the event of a waiver to the Code of Conduct, any required disclosure will be posted to our website. General We seek to meet the needs of residents of smaller towns through quality products at competitive prices with courteous service in clean stores at convenient locations. Smaller communities often are not served by national-chain convenience stores. We have succeeded at operating Casey s Stores in smaller towns by offering, at competitive prices, a broader selection of products than does a typical convenience store. We have also succeeded in meeting the needs of residents in larger communities with these offerings. We currently own most of our real estate, including substantially all of our stores, both distribution centers, a construction and support services facility, and the Store Support Center facility. The Company derives its revenue primarily from the retail sale of fuel and the products offered in our stores. Our sales historically have been strongest during the first and second fiscal quarters (May through October) relative to the third and fourth fiscal quarters (November through April). In warmer weather, guests tend to purchase greater quantities of fuel and certain convenience items such as beer, isotonics, water, soft drinks, and ice. Corporate Subsidiaries Casey's Marketing Company (the "Marketing Company") and Casey's Services Company (the "Services Company") were organized as Iowa corporations in March 1995. Casey s Retail Company (the "Retail Company") was organized as an Iowa corporation in April 2004. CGS Stores, LLC was organized in April 2019 as an Iowa limited liability company. Heartland Property Company, LLC was organized in September 2019 as a Delaware limited liability company. The Marketing Company, Services Company, and Retail Company are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Casey s. CGS Stores, LLC and Heartland Property Company, LLC are wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Marketing Company. Casey s Retail Company owns and operates stores in Illinois, Kansas, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota and Michigan; it also holds the rights to the Company's trademarks, service marks, trade names, and other intellectual property. The Marketing Company owns and operates stores in Arkansas, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma, and 4 Wisconsin, and until May 2019, stores in Tennessee. The Marketing Company also has responsibility for all of our wholesale operations, including both distribution centers. As of May 2019, CGS Stores, LLC owns and operates stores in Tennessee. The Services Company provides a variety of construction and transportation services for all stores. Store Operations Products Offered Each Casey s Store typically carries over 3,000 food and nonfood items. Many of the products offered are those generally found in a supermarket. The selection is generally limited to one or two well-known brands of each item stocked. Most of our staple food products are nationally advertised brands, and we also have an assortment of Casey's proprietary branded products. Stores sell regional brands of dairy and bakery products, and 1,887 ( 85.5% ) of the stores offer beer. Our nonfood items include tobacco and nicotine products, health and beauty aids, school supplies, housewares, pet supplies, and automotive products. All but three Casey s Stores offer retail motor fuel products for sale on a self-service basis. Gasoline and diesel fuel are sold under the Casey s name. It is our practice to continually make additions to the Company s product line, especially products with higher gross profit margins. As a result, we have added various prepared food items to our product line over the years, facilitated by the installation of kitchens, which now are in the majority of stores. The kitchens sell sandwiches, fountain drinks, and other items that have gross profit margins higher than those of general staple goods. As of April 30, 2020 , the Company was selling donuts in 2,199 ( 99.6% ) of our stores in addition to cookies, brownies, and other bakery items. The Company installs donut-making equipment in all newly constructed stores. We began marketing made-from-scratch pizza in 1984, and it was available in 2,198 stores ( 99.6% ) as of April 30, 2020 . Although pizza is our most popular prepared food offering, we continue to expand our prepared food product line, which currently includes ham and cheese sandwiches, pork, chicken, and sausage sandwiches, chicken tenders, pizza bites, popcorn chicken, breakfast croissants and biscuits, breakfast pizza, hash browns, quarter-pound hamburgers and cheeseburgers, potato cheese bites and other seasonal items. 1,553 ( 70.4% ) stores currently offer made-to-order sub sandwiches. The growth in our proprietary prepared food program reflects management s strategy to promote high-margin products that are compatible with convenience store operations. In the last three fiscal years, retail sales of nonfuel items have generated about 39% of our total revenue, but they have resulted in approximately 75% of our revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization). Revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) as a percentage of revenue on prepared food items averaged approximately 61% during the three fiscal years ended April 30, 2020 substantially higher than the impact of retail sales of fuel, which averaged approximately 9% . Store Design Casey s Stores are primarily freestanding and, with a few exceptions to accommodate local conditions, conform to standard construction specifications. The current larger store design measures 46 feet by 130 feet with approximately 3,000 square feet devoted to sales area, 600 square feet to kitchen space, 400 square feet to storage, and 2 large public restrooms. There is also a smaller store design that is generally designated for smaller communities that measures 39 feet by 86 feet, with approximately 1,550 square feet devoted to sales area with the remaining areas similar in size. Store lots have sufficient frontage and depth to permit adequate drive-in parking facilities on one or more sides of each store. Each new store typically includes 5 to 10 islands of fuel dispensers and storage tanks with capacity for 60,000 to 70,000 gallons of fuel. The merchandising display follows a standard layout designed to encourage a flow of guest traffic through all sections of every store. All stores are air-conditioned and have modern refrigeration equipment. Nearly all the store locations feature our bright red and yellow sign which displays Casey s name and service mark. All Casey s Stores remain open at least sixteen hours per day, seven days a week. Hours of operation may be adjusted on a store-by-store basis to accommodate guest traffic patterns. As of April 30, 2020 , we operated 38 stores on a 24-hour basis, and another 307 that have expanded hours. Store hours as of year-end reflect temporarily adjusted hours in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, we operated 633 stores on a 24-hour basis and another 1,407 stores with expanded hours. All stores maintain a bright, clean interior and provide prompt checkout service. Store Locations The Company traditionally has located its stores in smaller towns not served by national-chain convenience stores. Management believes that a Casey s Store provides a service generally not otherwise available in small towns and that a 5 convenience store in an area with limited population can be profitable if it stresses sales volume and competitive prices. Our store-site selection criteria emphasize the population of the immediate area and daily highway traffic volume. We can operate effectively at a highway location in a community with a population of as few as 400. Fuel Operations Fuel sales are an important part of our revenue and earnings. Approximately 60% of Casey s total revenue for the year ended April 30, 2020 was derived from the retail sale of fuel. The following table summarizes (dollars and gallons in thousands) fuel sales for the last three fiscal years ended April 30: Year ended April 30, 2020 2019 2018 Number of gallons sold 2,293,609 2,296,030 2,198,600 Total retail fuel sales $ 5,517,412 $ 5,848,770 $ 5,145,988 Percentage of total revenue 60.1 % 62.5 % 61.3 % Percentage of revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization and credit card fees) 11.1 % 8.0 % 7.9 % Average retail price per gallon $ 2.41 $ 2.55 $ 2.34 Average revenue less cost of goods sold per gallon (excluding depreciation and amortization and credit card fees) 26.81 20.30 18.50 Average number of gallons sold per store* 1,055 1,097 1,087 * Includes only those stores in operation at least one full year on April 30 of the fiscal year indicated. Retail prices of fuel during the year decreased 5.5% from prior year. The total number of gallons we sold during this period decreased by 0.1% . Over the course of the last year, the Company, as part of its evolving strategy around fuel price optimization, has been more proactive and balanced to grow profitability, which has partially contributed to higher fuel margins and lower same-store fuel gallons sold during that time. Additionally, shelter in place restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic diminished overall demand during the last two months of the fiscal year. Percentage of revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization and credit card fees) represents the fuel gross profit divided by the gross fuel sales dollars. As retail fuel prices fluctuate in a period of consistent gross margin per gallon, the percentage will also fluctuate in an inverse relationship to fuel price. For additional information concerning the Company s fuel operations, see Item 7 herein. Distribution and Wholesale Arrangements The Marketing Company supplies all stores with groceries, food, health and beauty aids, and general merchandise from the distribution centers. The stores place orders for merchandise electronically to the Store Support Center in Ankeny, and the orders are filled with shipments in Company-operated delivery trucks from one of the distribution centers, based on route optimization for the fleet network. All of our existing and most of our proposed stores are within the two distribution centers' optimum efficiency range a radius of approximately 500 miles around each distribution center. In fiscal 2020 , a majority of the food and nonfood items supplied to stores from the distribution centers were purchased directly from manufacturers. With few exceptions, long-term supply contracts are not entered into with the suppliers of products sold by Casey s Stores. We believe the practice enables us to respond to changing market conditions with minimal impact on margins. Personnel On April 30, 2020 , we had 17,282 full-time team members and 19,871 part-time team members. We have not experienced any work stoppages. There are no collective bargaining agreements between the Company and any of its team members. Competition Our business is highly competitive. Food, including prepared foods, and nonfood items similar or identical to those sold by the Company are generally available from various competitors in the communities served by Casey s Stores. We believe our stores located in smaller towns compete principally with other local grocery and convenience stores, similar retail outlets, and, to a lesser extent, prepared food outlets, restaurants, and expanded fuel stations offering a more limited selection of grocery and 6 food items for sale. Stores located in more heavily populated communities may compete with local and national grocery and drug store chains, quick serve restaurants, expanded fuel stations, supermarkets, discount food stores, and traditional convenience stores. Examples of convenience store chains competing in the larger towns served by Casey s Stores include Quik Trip, Kwik Trip, Kum Go, and other regional chains. Some of the Company s competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. These competitive factors are discussed further in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Trademarks and Service Marks The names "Casey s" and Casey s General Store and the marks consisting of the Casey s design logos (with the words Casey s General Store ) and the weathervane are registered trademarks and service marks under federal law. We believe these marks are of material importance in promoting and advertising the Company s business. The Company has a number of other registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks that are significant to the Company from an operational and branding perspective (e.g. "Casey s Pizza", "Casey's Famous for Pizza", "Casey's Here for Good", etc.). Government Regulation (dollars in thousands) The United States Environmental Protection Agency and several states, including Iowa, have established requirements for owners and operators of underground fuel storage tanks (USTs) with regard to (i) maintenance of leak detection, corrosion protection, and overfill/spill protection systems; (ii) upgrade of existing tanks; (iii) actions required in the event of a detected leak; (iv) prevention of leakage through tank closings; and (v) required fuel inventory record keeping. Since 1984, our new stores have been equipped with noncorroding fiberglass USTs, including some with double-wall construction, overfill protection, and electronic tank monitoring. We currently have 5,025 USTs, 4,152 of which are fiberglass and 873 are steel, and we believe that all capital expenditures for electronic monitoring, cathodic protection, and overfill/spill protection to comply with the existing UST regulations have been completed. Additional regulations or amendments to the existing UST regulations could result in future expenditures. Several states in which we do business have trust fund programs with provisions for sharing or reimbursing corrective action or remediation costs incurred by UST owners, including the Company. For the years ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , we spent approximately $718 and $774 , respectively, for assessments and remediation. Substantially all of these expenditures were submitted for reimbursement from state-sponsored trust fund programs. As of April 30, 2020 , approximately $23,695 has been received from such programs since inception. The payments are typically subject to statutory provisions requiring repayment of the reimbursed funds for noncompliance with upgrade provisions or other applicable laws. None of the reimbursements received are currently expected to be repaid by the Company to the trust fund programs. At April 30, 2020 , we had an accrued liability of $328 for estimated expenses related to anticipated corrective actions or remediation efforts, including relevant legal and consulting costs. We believe we have no material joint and several environmental liability with other parties.