ITEM 1. Business 4 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 9 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 16 ITEM 2. Properties 17 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 17 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 19 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 29 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 51 ITEM 9B. Other Information 51 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 51 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 52 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 52 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 52 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 52 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 52 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 53 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 55 Signatures 56 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company As of April 30, 2024, Casey s General Stores, Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries operate convenience stores primarily under the names "Casey's" and "Casey s General Store" (collectively, with the stores below referenced as "GoodStop", "Bucky's", "Minit Mart", or "Lone Star Food Store" referred to as "Casey's" or the "Company") throughout 17 states, over half of which are located in Iowa, Missouri, and Illinois. Approximately 72% of all stores were opened in areas with populations of fewer than 20,000 persons. The Company competes on the basis of price, as well as on the basis of traditional features of convenience store operations such as location, extended hours, product offerings, and quality of service. As of April 30, 2024, there were a total of 2,658 stores in operation. All convenience stores carry a broad selection of food items (including, but not limited to, freshly prepared foods such as regular and breakfast pizza, donuts, hot breakfast items, and hot and cold sandwiches), beverages, tobacco and nicotine products, health and beauty aids, automotive products, and other nonfood items. As of April 30, 2024, 233 store locations offered car washes. In addition, all but eight store locations offer fuel for sale on a self-service basis. The Company had 62 stores operating under the "GoodStop (by Casey s)" brand and 10 stores operating under the "Lone Star Food Store" brand as of April 30, 2024. Similar to most of our store footprint, the "GoodStop" and "Lone Star Food Store" locations offer fuel for sale on a self-serve basis, and a broad selection of snacks, beverages, tobacco products, and other essentials. However, some of these locations do not have a kitchen and have limited prepared food offerings. The Company is also temporarily operating certain locations acquired from Buchanan Energy under the name "Bucky's" and certain locations acquired from Minit Mart LLC under the name "Minit Mart." The Company is in the process of transitioning all "Bucky's" and "Minit Mart" locations to either the "Casey's" or "GoodStop" brand. These locations typically have similar offerings to the "Casey s" or "GoodStop" branded stores. The Company has 73 dealer locations, where Casey s manages fuel wholesale supply agreements to these stores. These locations are not operated by Casey's and are not included in our overall store count. Approximately 1% of total revenue for the year-ended April 30, 2024 relates to this dealer network. The Company operates three distribution centers, through which certain grocery and general merchandise and prepared food and dispensed beverage items are supplied to our stores. One distribution center is adjacent to our corporate headquarters, which we refer to as the Store Support Center facility in Ankeny, Iowa. The other two distribution centers are located in Terre Haute, Indiana and Joplin, Missouri. The Company also self-distributes the majority of fuel to our stores. The Company had a fleet of 421 tractors used for distribution as of April 30, 2024. The Company s internet address is www.caseys.com. We make available through our website all of our SEC filings, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our annual report on Form 10-K, and amendments to those reports, free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with the SEC. Additionally, you can go to our website to read our Financial Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct and Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct, and Committee Charters. In the event of a waiver from, or updates to, the Code of Conduct and Ethics, any required disclosure will be posted to our website. Casey s, with its principal business office, and Store Support Center, located at One SE Convenience Blvd., Ankeny, Iowa 50021-8045 (telephone 515-965-6100), was incorporated in Iowa in 1967. Our fiscal year runs from May 1 through April 30 of each year. General Casey's corporate purpose is to make life better for communities and guests every day. Many of the smaller communities in which we operate often are not served by national-chain convenience stores. We have succeeded in operating stores in smaller towns by offering, at competitive prices, a broader selection of products than does a typical convenience store. We have also succeeded in meeting the needs of residents in larger communities with these same offerings. We currently own most of our real estate, including substantially all of our stores, all three distribution centers (see discussion of ownership structure of the distribution center in Joplin, Missouri in Note 7), a construction and support services facility located in Ankeny, Iowa, and the Store Support Center facility. The Company derives its revenue primarily from the retail sale of fuel and the products offered in our stores. Our sales historically have been strongest during the first and second fiscal quarters (May through October) relative to the third and fourth 4 Table of Contents fiscal quarters (November through April). In warmer weather, guests tend to purchase greater quantities of fuel and certain convenience items such as beer, sports drinks, water, soft drinks, and ice. Corporate Subsidiaries Casey's Marketing Company ("CMC") and Casey's Services Company ("CSC") were organized as Iowa corporations in March 1995. Casey s Retail Company ("CRC") was organized as an Iowa corporation in April 2004. CGS Stores, LLC was organized as an Iowa limited liability company in April 2019. CMC, CSC, and CRC are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Casey s, while CGS Stores, LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CMC. CRC owns and/or operates certain stores in Illinois, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota, and South Dakota, holds the rights to the Company's trademarks, service marks, trade names, and other intellectual property, and performs most strategic functions of the enterprise. CMC owns and/or operates stores in Arkansas, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, and Texas, and is responsible for all of our wholesale operations, including all three distribution centers and management of the wholesale fuel network. CGS Stores, LLC owns and/or operates stores in Tennessee. CSC provides a variety of construction, maintenance and transportation services for all stores. Store Operations Products Offered The Company designs, develops and delivers value to its guests through a differentiated product assortment where the right products are optimally placed, priced and promoted to drive traffic, revenue and profit. It is our practice to continually make additions to the Company s product line, especially products with higher margins such as prepared food and our new private label offerings, described below. To facilitate many of these items, we have installed full kitchens in almost all of our stores, other than those branded as GoodStop and "Lone Star Food Store". The Company's flagship product is its handmade pizza, which we began preparing and selling in 1984. Pizza is available in almost all of our stores as of April 30, 2024. Additional stores selling pizza will come on line as newly acquired stores are remodeled and kitchens are added. We have also expanded our prepared food offerings, which currently includes made to order cheesy breadsticks, sandwiches and wraps, chicken wings, chicken tenders, breakfast croissants and biscuits, breakfast pizza, breakfast burritos, hash browns, burgers, and bakery items which includes include donuts, cookies and brownies as well as other seasonal items. During the fiscal year, the Company launched a new thin crust pizza line. In addition to the new platform in pizza, the company also relaunched our lunch offering by upgrading the quality of our entire hot sandwich line, including adding a spicy chicken sandwich. As of April 30, 2024, the Company was selling bakery items such as donuts, cookies and brownies in 2,570 (97%) of our stores. The growth in our prepared food program reflects the Company s strategy to promote high-margin products that are compatible with convenience store operations. In the last three fiscal years, retail sales of nonfuel items have generated about 35% of our total revenue, but they have resulted in approximately 66% of our revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization). Revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) as a percentage of revenue on prepared food items averaged approximately 58% for the three fiscal years ended April 30, 2024. Each Casey s store typically carries over 3,000 packaged food, beverage and non-food items. The selection is a blend of differentiated private label products (which includes over 350 items as of April 30, 2024), as well as favored national and regional brands, many of which can be found in larger format stores. Our assortment includes product across the following categories: non-alcoholic beverages (soft drinks, energy, water, sports drinks, juices, coffee, tea and dairy) alcoholic beverages (beer, wine and spirits) packaged foods (snacks, candy, packaged bakery and other food items) tobacco and nicotine products frozen foods (ice, ice cream, meals and appetizers) non-foods (health and beauty aids, automotive, electronic accessories, housewares and pet supplies) services (ATM, lotto/lottery and prepaid cards) All but eight stores offer retail motor fuel products for sale on a self-service basis. Gasoline and diesel fuel are sold under the Casey s name at the majority of our locations. The Company offers the Casey's Rewards program to bring value to guests and improve the digital guest experience. As part of this program, guests can earn points from online, in-store, or at the pump purchases. Points earned can be redeemed for donations to a local school of the guest's choice, fuel discounts, or Casey's Cash, which can be used on many products sold in our stores. The Rewards program is delivered through Casey s mobile application. In addition to earning points, guests may 5 Table of Contents receive other program benefits such as special offers and bonus points. At the end of the fiscal year, the Company had surpassed 7.9 million members enrolled in the program. Store Design Casey s constructs stores that are primarily freestanding and, with a few exceptions to accommodate local conditions, conform to standard construction specifications. We have a range of store designs differing in size and offerings. Store lots have sufficient frontage and depth to permit adequate drive-in parking facilities on one or more sides of each store. Each new store typically includes 4 to 6 islands of fuel dispensers and storage tanks with capacity for 44,000 to 70,000 gallons of fuel. The merchandising display follows a standard layout designed to encourage a flow of guest traffic through all sections of every store. Nearly all locations feature a bright sign which displays the Casey s, GoodStop or Lone Star Food Store name and trade/service marks. Almost all stores remain open at least sixteen hours per day, seven days a week. Hours of operation may be adjusted on a store-by-store basis to accommodate guest traffic patterns. Store Locations The Company historically has located many of its stores in smaller towns not served by national-chain convenience stores. We believe that a Casey s store provides a service generally not otherwise available in smaller towns and that a convenience store in an area with limited population can be profitable if it stresses sales volume and competitive prices. Our store-site selection criteria emphasize the population of the immediate area and daily highway traffic volume. Retail Fuel Operations Retail fuel sales are an important part of our revenue and earnings. The following table summarizes (dollars and gallons in thousands) retail fuel sales for the last three fiscal years ended April 30: Year ended April 30, 2024 2023 2022 Number of gallons sold 2,828,669 2,672,366 2,579,179 Total retail fuel sales $ 9,402,071 $ 10,027,310 $ 8,312,038 Percentage of total revenue 63.3 % 66.4 % 64.2 % Percentage of revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) 11.9 % 10.7 % 11.2 % Average retail price per gallon $ 3.32 $ 3.75 $ 3.22 Average revenue less cost of goods sold per gallon (excluding depreciation and amortization) 39.48 40.22 36.01 Average number of gallons sold per store* 1,102 1,092 1,047 * Includes only those stores in operation at least one full year on April 30 of the fiscal year indicated. Average retail prices of fuel during the year decreased 11.5% from prior year. Fuel prices increased at the end of the 2022 fiscal year due to overall supply issues, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine resulted in a United States ban of Russian crude oil imports. While prices have moderated since the highs seen at the end of the 2022 fiscal year, and start of the fiscal 2023 year, the higher costs have continued into fiscal 2024 due to the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, unrest in the Middle East and economic uncertainty in Western nations. Regardless, we believe our centralized fuel team is well positioned to navigate any potential future fuel price volatility, as they work to maximize total profitability. The total number of gallons sold during this period increased by 5.8%. Gallons sold were positively impacted by a growing store count as we operated 137 more stores than the prior year. Average revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) per gallon decreased by 1.8%. Our centralized fuel team has been instrumental in sustaining higher than historically typical average revenue less cost of goods sold per gallon (excluding depreciation and amortization). Percentage of revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) represents the fuel revenue less cost of goods sold (excluding depreciation and amortization) divided by the gross fuel sales dollars. As retail fuel prices fluctuate in a period of consistent gross margin per gallon, the percentage will also fluctuate in an inverse relationship to fuel price. For additional information concerning the Company s fuel operations, see Item 7, below. Distribution and Wholesale Arrangements CMC supplies all stores with various groceries, food, health and beauty aids, and general merchandise from our three distribution centers. The stores place orders for merchandise electronically to the Store Support Center, and the orders are filled with shipments in Company-operated delivery trucks from one of the distribution centers, based on route optimization for the 6 Table of Contents fleet network. Most of our existing and proposed stores are within the three distribution centers' optimum efficiency range a radius of approximately 500 miles around each distribution center. In fiscal 2024, a majority of the food and nonfood items supplied to stores through the distribution centers were purchased directly from manufacturers. While we consider long-term contracts for potential favorability against short-term contracts, long-term supply contracts are not typically entered into with the suppliers of products sold by our stores. We believe the practice enables us to respond to changing market conditions with minimal impact on margins. In addition to the products discussed above, CMC supplies the majority of fuel to our stores, and supplies fuel on a wholesale basis as part of a dealer network to 73 locations. We have entered into various purchase agreements related to our fuel supply, which include varying volume commitments. Prices included in the purchase agreements are indexed to market prices. Human Capital Our employees, who we refer to as Team Members, are critical to our business operations and the success of the Company. As of April 30, 2024, we had 20,935 full-time, and 24,424 part-time, Team Members. Approximately 94% are store Team Members, 1% are field management and related Team Members, 1% work in and support our three distribution centers, 1% are fuel or grocery drivers and 3% work out of the Store Support Center, or perform Store Support Center functions. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements with our Team Members and believe the working relationship with our Team Members is good. Core Values Casey s CARES about our communities and guests. We believe our people and culture are our foundation for success. Our core values are part of our evolution to build a culture of commitment Casey s CARES: C Commitment: We work hard to be the best and have a good time doing it. A Authenticity: We re true to our roots by having high integrity and being low ego. R Respect: We treat people the way they want to be treated. E Evolving: We re driven to build a better future for ourselves and for our business. S Service: We put service first and take pride in caring for our guests, our communities, and each other. We believe these core values serve as a solid foundation for how we treat our Team Members, how they treat one another and how we operate our business as a whole. Team Member Value Proposition ("TMVP") We believe that the future success of the Company depends in large part on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate qualified Team Members. We have a defined TMVP that is grounded in four pillars that support what Team Members value in their employment at Casey's. Career Growth providing development, coaching and ultimately pathways for career growth. Engaging Work simplifying work, providing skill training, transparent communications and goal alignment. Living Casey s CARES Culture clarity and alignment to mission and vision of the company, making work fun, supportive caring leaders, and a welcoming culture. Well-being fair and competitive pay, meaningful benefits recognition, support for work-life balance. As such, we are committed to providing market-competitive pay and benefits for all positions and offer performance-based compensation opportunities to certain of our full-time Team Members. In addition, the Company offers a 401(k) plan to eligible Team Members, with a 6% match made in Company stock, and all full-time Team Members are eligible for competitive health and welfare benefits, including medical, dental, vision, disability, life insurance and other benefits. In addition, during the 2024 fiscal year, the Company enhanced coverages for dental and vision, introduced company paid short-term disability for all full-time Team Members, and long-term disability for certain full-time Team Members, as well as increased the coverages and access for mental health services. We also increased participation (including a Company donation of $1.0 million during the 2024 fiscal year) and utilization of Casey's Team Member Support Fund, which is designed to help Team Members facing financial hardships due to catastrophic circumstances. Diversity and Inclusion The Company is committed to building a diverse and inclusive workforce across the organization, which it believes is set by example with its Board of Directors and extended leadership team. As of the end of the 2024 fiscal year, the Board consisted of ten members, four (or 40%) of which are diverse as to gender, and three (or 30%) of which are diverse to race and/or ethnicity. The extended leadership team, which includes all of our Vice-President level executives and above, consists of thirty-three members, 39% of which are diverse as to gender, race and/or ethnicity. Across our entire Team Member base, 57% of our 7 Table of Contents Team Members are female and 17% are diverse as to race and/or ethnicity. In addition, we have a strict Anti Harassment and Discrimination Policy of which all Team Members are trained and expected to follow and we have several mechanisms, including an Ethics and Compliance Hotline, under which Team Members and guests can report incidents confidentially or anonymously and without fear of retaliation. We have four team member resource groups which further enhance the diversity, equity and inclusion culture at Casey's: Women in Leadership, Veterans, Faith and LGBTQ. The Company has also established a formal Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee to further promote the already strong culture of belonging and empowerment for all Team Members. In addition, the company has expanded its learning related to unconscious bias and critical conversations through formal training. Education and Training The Company, including its established Learning and Development Department, which serves all levels of the organization, invests significant time and resources in educating and training Team Members by providing them with educational, development and leadership opportunities. These opportunities are provided through a mix of formal onboarding training, safety training, in-person classes, virtual modules and on-the-job learning. For example, through its virtual modules, the Company offers over 700 hours of educational opportunities through over 350 classes, for which there were almost 340,000 enrollments during the 2024 fiscal year. In addition, the Company has a formal leadership development program with core curriculum consisting of Development programs for Kitchen Managers, Store Managers, District Managers, a Leadership Excellence Certification, a Finance for Non-Financial Managers program, and an Individualized Development Program for all Officers based on their review. Competition Our business is highly competitive. Food, including prepared foods, and nonfood items similar or identical to those sold by the Company, are generally available from various competitors in the communities served by Casey s and by certain online retailers. We believe our stores located in smaller towns compete principally with other local grocery and convenience stores, similar retail outlets, and, to a lesser extent, prepared food outlets, restaurants, and expanded fuel stations offering a more limited selection of grocery and food items for sale. Stores located in more heavily populated communities may compete with local and national grocery and drug store chains, quick service restaurants, expanded fuel stations, supermarkets, discount food stores, and traditional convenience stores. In addition to our inside store products, the fuel business is also highly competitive. The Company competes on the basis of brand, price, and convenience of our fuel products. We believe our locations in smaller towns are well-positioned. Similar to inside, stores compete with larger store chains with expanded fuel offerings and increased buying power in more heavily populated communities. Examples of convenience store chains competing in the larger towns served by Casey s include Quik Trip, Kwik Trip/Star, Maverik/Kum Go, and other regional chains. These competitive factors are discussed further in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Trademarks and Service Marks The Company regularly evaluates its portfolio of intellectual property and takes steps to review potential new trademarks and service marks and to renew existing marks. The names "Casey s", Casey s General Store , and "GoodStop (by Casey's)", the marks consisting of the Casey s design logos (with the words Casey s and Casey s General Store ), the weathervane, and certain of our private label product names, are registered trademarks and service marks under federal law. We believe these marks are of material importance in promoting and advertising the Company s business. In addition, the Company has a number of other registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks that are significant to the Company from an operational and branding perspective (e.g. "Casey s Pizza", "The Official Pizza and Beer Headquarters", "Casey's Here for Good", Casey s Rewards , Casey s Cash , etc.). Government Regulation (dollars in thousands) Underground Storage Tanks The United States Environmental Protection Agency and several states, including Iowa, have established requirements for owners and operators of underground fuel storage tanks (USTs) with regard to (i) maintenance of leak detection, corrosion protection, and overfill/spill protection systems; (ii) upgrade of existing tanks; (iii) actions required in the event of a detected leak; (iv) prevention of leakage through tank closings; and (v) required fuel inventory record keeping. Since 1984, our new stores have been equipped with noncorroding fiberglass USTs, including some with double-wall construction, overfill protection, and electronic tank monitoring. We believe that all capital expenditures for electronic monitoring, cathodic protection, and overfill/spill protection to comply with the existing UST regulations have been completed. Additional regulations or amendments to the existing UST regulations could result in future expenditures. 8 Table of Contents The majority of states in which we do business have trust fund programs with provisions for sharing or reimbursing corrective action or remediation costs incurred by UST owners, including the Company. For the years ended April 30, 2024, 2023, and 2022, we spent approximately $966, $653, and $577, respectively, for assessments and remediation. The majority of these expenditures were submitted for reimbursement from state-sponsored trust fund programs. The payments are typically subject to statutory provisions requiring repayment of the reimbursed funds for noncompliance with upgrade provisions or other applicable laws. None of the reimbursements received are currently expected to be repaid by the Company to the trust fund programs. At April 30, 2024 and 2023 we had an accrued liability of $299 and $268, respectively, for estimated expenses related to anticipated corrective actions or remediation efforts, including relevant legal and consulting costs. We believe we have no material joint and several environmental liability with other parties. Age-Restricted Products Almost all of our stores sell a variety of age-restricted products, which may include beer, liquor, tobacco and other nicotine products. The sale of these products are subject to significant regulations and require the Company to procure special sales licenses from local and/or state agencies, which govern their sale. While the costs to procure such licenses is not material, the failure to comply with the conditions of the licenses, or other age-restricted products laws, could result in the suspension or revocation of such licenses, or fines related thereto. In addition to these products, the Company is also subject to rules governing lottery and lotto sales as determined by state lottery commissions in each state in which we make such sales.