ITEM 1. Business 2 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 19 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 ITEM 2. Properties 31 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 31 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 34 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 90 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 95 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 95 ITEM 9B. Other Information 95 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 96 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 97 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 97 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 98 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 106 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General Chubb Limited is the Swiss-incorporated holding company of the Chubb Group of Companies. Chubb Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the Chubb Group of Companies, Chubb, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, serving the needs of a diverse group of clients worldwide. At December 31, 2019 , we had total assets of $177 billion and shareholders equity of $55 billion . Chubb was incorporated in 1985 at which time it opened its first business office in Bermuda and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda. We have grown our business through increased premium volume, expansion of product offerings and geographic reach, and the acquisition of other companies to become a global property and casualty (P C) leader. With operations in 54 countries and territories, Chubb provides commercial and personal property and casualty insurance, personal accident and supplemental health insurance (A H), reinsurance, and life insurance to a diverse group of clients. We offer commercial insurance products and service offerings such as risk management programs, loss control, and engineering and complex claims management. We provide specialized insurance products ranging from Directors Officers (D O) and professional liability to various specialty-casualty and umbrella and excess casualty lines to niche areas such as aviation and energy. We also offer personal lines insurance coverage including homeowners, automobile, valuables, umbrella liability, and recreational marine products. In addition, we supply personal accident, supplemental health, and life insurance to individuals in select countries. We serve multinational corporations, mid-size and small businesses with property and casualty insurance and risk engineering services; affluent and high net worth individuals with substantial assets to protect; individuals purchasing life, personal accident, supplemental health, homeowners, automobile, and specialty personal insurance coverage; companies and affinity groups providing or offering accident and health insurance programs and life insurance to their employees or members; and insurers managing exposures with reinsurance coverage. At December 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 33,000 people. We believe that employee relations are satisfactory. We make available free of charge through our website (investors.chubb.com, under Financials) our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also available through our website (under Investor Relations / Corporate Governance) are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and Charters for the Committees of the Board of Directors (the Board). Printed documents are available by contacting our Investor Relations Department (Telephone: +1 (212) 827-4445, E-mail: investorrelations@chubb.com). We also use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC. Customers For most commercial and personal lines of business we offer, insureds typically use the services of an insurance broker or agent. An insurance broker acts as an agent for the insureds, offering advice on the types and amount of insurance to purchase, and assists in the negotiation of price and terms and conditions. We obtain business from the local and major international insurance brokers and typically pay a commission to brokers for any business accepted and bound. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In our opinion, no material part of our business is dependent upon a single insured or group of insureds. We do not believe that the loss of any one insured would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and no one insured or group of affiliated insureds account for as much as 10 percent of our total revenues. 2 Table of Contents Competition Competition in the insurance and reinsurance marketplace is substantial. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European, and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, technological, marketing, distribution and management resources than we do. In addition, capital market participants have created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. We also compete with new companies and existing companies that move into the insurance and reinsurance markets. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups (such as group captives and catastrophe pools), and other underwriting organizations. Competitors sell through various distribution channels and business models, across a broad array of product lines, and with a high level of variation regarding geographic, marketing, and customer segmentation. We compete for business not only on the basis of price but also on the basis of availability of coverage desired by customers and quality of service. The insurance industry is changing rapidly. Our ability to compete is dependent on a number of factors, particularly our ability to maintain the appropriate financial strength ratings as assigned by independent rating agencies and effectively utilize new technology in our business. Our broad market capabilities in personal, commercial, specialty, and A H lines made available by our underwriting expertise, business infrastructure, and global presence, help define our competitive advantage. Our strong balance sheet is attractive to businesses, and our strong capital position and global platform affords us opportunities for growth not available to smaller, less diversified insurance companies. Refer to Segment Information for competitive environment by segment. Trademarks and Trade Names Various trademarks and trade names we use protect names of certain products and services we offer and are important to the extent they provide goodwill and name recognition in the insurance industry. We use commercially reasonable efforts to protect these proprietary rights, including various trade secret and trademark laws. We intend to retain material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements of applicable countries. One or more of the trademarks and trade names could be material to our ability to sell our products and services. We have taken appropriate steps to protect our ownership of key names, and we believe it is unlikely that anyone would be able to prevent us from using names in places or circumstances material to our operations. Segment Information Chubb operates through six business segments: North America Commercial P C Insurance, North America Personal P C Insurance, North America Agricultural Insurance, Overseas General Insurance, Global Reinsurance, and Life Insurance. In 2019, consolidated net premiums earned was $31,290 million . Additional financial information about our segments, including net premiums earned by geographic region, is included in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. North America Commercial P C Insurance ( 41 percent of 2019 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Commercial P C Insurance segment comprises operations that provide P C insurance and services to large, middle market, and small commercial businesses in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes: Major Accounts, the retail division focused on large institutional organizations and corporate companies Commercial Insurance, which includes the retail division focused on middle market customers and small businesses Westchester and Chubb Bermuda, our wholesale and specialty divisions Products and Distribution Major Accounts provides a broad array of traditional and specialty P C, A H, and risk management products and services to large U.S. and Canadian-based institutional organizations and corporate companies. Major Accounts distributes its insurance products primarily through a limited number of retail brokers. In addition to using brokers, certain products are also distributed through general agents, independent agents, managing general agents (MGA), managing general underwriters, alliances, affinity groups, and direct marketing operations. Products and services offered include property, professional liability, cyber risk, excess casualty, workers compensation, general liability, automobile liability, commercial marine, surety, environmental, construction, medical risk, inland marine, A H coverages, as well as claims and risk management products and services. 3 Table of Contents The Major Accounts operations, which represented approximately 40 percent of North America Commercial P C Insurance s net premiums earned in 2019, are organized into the following distinct business units, each offering specialized products and services targeted at specific markets: Chubb Global Casualty offers a range of customized risk management primary casualty products designed to help large insureds, including national accounts, address the significant costs of financing and managing risk for workers compensation, general liability and automobile liability coverages as well as offering casualty insurance solutions for commercial real estate. Chubb Global Casualty also provides products which insure specific global operating risks of U.S.-based multinational companies and include deductible programs, captive programs, and paid or incurred loss retrospective plans. Within Chubb Global Casualty, Chubb Alternative Risk Solutions Group underwrites contractual indemnification policies which provides prospective coverage for loss events within the insured s policy retention levels and underwrites assumed loss portfolio transfer (LPT) contracts in which insured loss events have occurred prior to the inception of the contract. Property provides products and services including primary, quota share and excess all-risk insurance, risk management programs and services, commercial, inland marine, and aerospace products. Casualty Risk provides coverages including umbrella and excess liability, environmental risk, casualty programs for commercial construction related projects for companies and institutions, and medical risk specialty liability products for the healthcare industry. Surety offers a wide variety of surety products and specializes in underwriting both commercial and contract bonds and has the capacity for bond issuance on an international basis. Accident Health (A H) products include employee benefit plans, occupational accident, student accident, and worldwide travel accident and global medical programs. With respect to products that include supplemental medical and hospital indemnity coverages, we typically pay fixed amounts for claims and are therefore insulated from rising healthcare costs. A H also provides specialty personal lines products, including credit card enhancement programs (identity theft, rental car collision damage waiver, trip travel, and purchase protection benefits) distributed through affinity groups. Financial Lines provides management liability and professional liability (D O and E O), transactional risk and cyber risk products to public companies as well as to private and not for profit organizations. ESIS Inc. (ESIS) is an in-house third-party claims administrator that performs claims management and risk control services for domestic and international organizations as well as for the North America Commercial P C Insurance segment. ESIS services include comprehensive medical managed care; integrated disability services; pre-loss control and risk management; health, safety and environmental consulting; salvage and subrogation; and healthcare recovery services. The net results for ESIS are included in North America Commercial P C Insurance s administrative expenses. The Commercial Insurance operations, which include Small Commercial, represented approximately 40 percent of North America Commercial P C Insurance s net premiums earned in 2019. Commercial Insurance provides a broad range of P C, financial lines, and A H products targeted to U.S and Canadian-based middle market customers in a variety of industries, while the Small Commercial operations provide a broad range of property and casualty, workers' compensation, small commercial management and professional liability for small businesses based in the U.S. Commercial Insurance products and services offered include traditional property and casualty lines of business, including Package, which combines property and general liability, workers' compensation, automobile, umbrella; financial lines of business, including professional liability, management liability and cyber risk coverage; and other lines including environmental, A H, and international coverages. Commercial Insurance distributes its insurance products through a North American network of independent retail agents, and regional, multinational and digital brokers. Generally, our customers purchase insurance through a single retail agent or broker, do not employ a risk management department, and do not retain significant risk through self-insured retentions. The majority of our customers purchase a Package product or a portfolio of products, which is a collection of insurance offerings designed to cover various needs. Small Commercial Insurance products and services offered include property and casualty lines of business, including a business owner policy which contains property and general liability; financial lines, including professional liability, management liability, cyber risk; and other lines including workers compensation, automobile liability, and international coverages. Products are generally offered through a North American network of independent agents and brokers, as well as eTraditional, which are digital platforms where we electronically quote, bind, and issue for agents and brokers. An example of this is the Chubb Marketplace. 4 Table of Contents Wholesale and Specialty, which represented approximately 20 percent of North America Commercial P C Insurance s net premiums earned in 2019, comprises Westchester and Chubb Bermuda. Westchester serves the market for business risks that tend to be hard to place or not easily covered by traditional policies due to unique or complex exposures and provides specialty products for property, casualty, environmental, professional liability, inland marine, product recall, small business, binding and program coverages in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. Products are offered through the wholesale distribution channel. Chubb Bermuda provides commercial insurance products on an excess basis including excess liability, D O, professional liability, property, and political risk, the latter being written by Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd., a wholly-owned managing agent. Chubb Bermuda focuses on Fortune 1000 companies and targets risks that are generally low in frequency and high in severity. Products are offered primarily through the Bermuda offices of major, internationally recognized insurance brokers. Competitive Environment Major Accounts competes against a number of large, global carriers as well as regional competitors and other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions and captive programs. The markets in which we compete are subject to significant cycles of fluctuating capacity and wide disparities in price adequacy. We pursue a specialist strategy and focus on market opportunities where we can compete effectively based on service levels and product design, while still achieving an adequate level of profitability. We also achieve a competitive advantage through Major Accounts innovative product offerings and our ability to provide multiple products to a single client due to our nationwide local presence. In addition, all our domestic commercial units are able to deliver global products and coverage to customers in concert with our Overseas General Insurance segment. The Commercial Insurance operations compete against numerous insurance companies ranging from large national carriers to small and mid-size insurers who provide specialty coverages and standard P C products. Recent competitive developments include the growth of new digital-based distribution models. Westchester competes against a number of large, national carriers as well as regional competitors and other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions and captive programs. Chubb Bermuda competes against international commercial carriers writing business on an excess of loss basis. North America Personal P C Insurance ( 15 percent of 2019 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Personal P C Insurance segment includes the business written by Chubb Personal Risk Services division, which includes high net worth personal lines business, with operations in the U.S. and Canada. This segment provides affluent and high net worth individuals and families with homeowners, automobile and collector cars, valuable articles (including fine arts), personal and excess liability, travel insurance, and recreational marine insurance and services. Our homeowners business, including valuable articles, represented 68 percent of North America Personal P C Insurance s net premiums earned in 2019. Products and Distribution Chubb Personal Risk Services offers comprehensive personal insurance products and services to meet the evolving needs of high net worth families and individuals. Our seamless customer experience and superior coverage protect not only our clients most valuable possessions, but also their standard of living. Our target customers consist of high net worth consumers with insurance needs that typically extend beyond what mass market carriers can offer. These coverages are offered solely through independent regional agents and brokers. Competitive Environment Chubb Personal Risk Services competes against insurance companies of varying sizes that sell personal lines products through various distribution channels, including retail agents as well as online distribution channels. We achieve a competitive advantage through our ability to address the specific needs of high net worth families and individuals, to provide superior service to our customers, and to develop and deploy digital production and processes. 5 Table of Contents North America Agricultural Insurance ( 6 percent of 2019 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Agricultural Insurance segment comprises our U.S. and Canadian-based businesses that provide a variety of coverages including crop insurance, primarily Multiple Peril Crop Insurance (MPCI) and crop-hail insurance through Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. (Rain and Hail) as well as farm and ranch and specialty P C commercial insurance products and services through our Chubb Agribusiness unit. Products and Distribution Rain and Hail provides comprehensive MPCI and crop-hail insurance coverages. MPCI is federally subsidized crop protection from numerous causes of loss, including drought, excessive moisture, freeze, disease and more. The MPCI program is offered in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Agriculture. MPCI products include revenue protection (defined as providing both commodity price and yield coverages), yield protection, margin protection, prevented planting coverage and replant coverage. For additional information on our MPCI program, refer to Crop Insurance under Item 7. Crop-Hail coverage provides crop protection from damage caused by hail and/or fire, with options in some markets for other perils such as wind or theft. Coverage is provided on an acre-by-acre basis and is available in the U.S. and in some parts of Canada. Crop-Hail can be used in conjunction with MPCI or other comprehensive coverages to offset the deductible and provide protection up to the actual cash value of the crop. Chubb Agribusiness comprises Commercial Agribusiness and Farm and Ranch Agribusiness. Commercial Agribusiness offers specialty P C coverages for commercial companies that manufacture, process and distribute agricultural products. Commercial products and services include property, general liability for premises/operations and product liability, commercial automobile, workers' compensation, employment practices liability coverage, built-in coverage for premises pollution, cyber and information security, and product withdrawal. Farm and Ranch Agribusiness offers an extensive line of coverages for farming operations from Hobby/Gentleman farms to complex corporate farms and equine services including personal use, boarding, and training. Coverages include farm and ranch structures, machinery and other equipment, automobile and other vehicle coverages, and livestock. Competitive Environment Rain and Hail primarily operates in a federally regulated program where all approved providers offer the same product forms and rates through independent and/or captive agents. We seek a competitive advantage through our ability to provide superior service to our customers, including the development of digital solutions. Chubb Agribusiness competes against both national and regional competitors offering specialty P C insurance coverages to companies that manufacture, process, and distribute agricultural products. Overseas General Insurance ( 28 percent of 2019 Consolidated NPE) Overview The Overseas General Insurance segment comprises Chubb International and Chubb Global Markets (CGM). CGM, our London-based international specialty and excess and surplus lines business, includes Lloyd's of London (Lloyd's) Syndicate 2488, a wholly-owned Chubb syndicate supported by funds at Lloyd s provided by Chubb Corporate Members. Syndicate 2488 has an underwriting capacity of 480 million for the Lloyd s 2020 account year. The syndicate is managed by Chubb s Lloyd s managing agency, Chubb Underwriting Agencies Limited. Products and Distribution Chubb International maintains a presence in every major insurance market in the world and is organized geographically along product lines as follows: Europe, Asia Pacific and Far East, Eurasia and Africa, and Latin America. Products offered include P C, A H, specialty coverages, and personal lines insurance products and services. Chubb International's P C business is generally written, on both a direct and assumed basis, through major international, regional, and local brokers and agents. Certain European branded products are also offered via an eTraditional digital-commerce platform, Chubb Online, that allows brokers to quote, bind, and issue specialty policies online. Asia Pacific also utilizes similar eTraditional platforms to quote, bind, 6 Table of Contents and issue policies. Property insurance products include traditional commercial fire coverage as well as energy industry-related, marine, construction, and other technical coverages. Principal casualty products are commercial primary and excess casualty, environmental, and general liability. A H and other consumer lines products are distributed through brokers, agents, direct marketing programs, including thousands of telemarketers, and sponsor relationships. The A H operations primarily offer personal accident and supplemental medical coverages including accidental death, business/holiday travel, specified disease, disability, medical and hospital indemnity, and income protection. We are not in the primary healthcare business. With respect to our supplemental medical and hospital indemnity products, we typically pay fixed amounts for claims and are therefore largely insulated from the direct impact of rising healthcare costs. Chubb International specialty coverages include D O, professional indemnity, energy, aviation, political risk, and specialty personal lines products. Chubb International's personal lines operations provide specialty products and services designed to meet the needs of specific target markets and include property damage, automobile, homeowners, and personal liability. Chubb International s presence in China also includes its 30.9 percent ownership interest in Huatai Insurance Group Company Limited (Huatai Group). Huatai Group wholly owns Huatai Property Casualty Insurance Co., Ltd. (Huatai P C). Therefore, Chubb owns an approximately 30.9 percent indirect ownership interest in Huatai P C, which provides a range of commercial and personal P C products in China, including property, professional liability, product liability, employer liability, business interruption, marine cargo, personal accident and specialty risk. These products are marketed through a variety of distribution channels including over 200 licensed sales locations in 28 Chinese provinces. Chubb is in the process of increasing its ownership interest in Huatai Group. CGM offers products through its parallel distribution network via two legal entities, Chubb European Group SE (CEG) and Chubb Underwriting Agencies Limited, managing agent of Syndicate 2488. CGM uses the Syndicate to underwrite P C business on a global basis through Lloyd's worldwide licenses. CGM uses CEG to underwrite similar classes of business through its network of U.K. and European licenses, and in the U.S. where it is eligible to write excess and surplus lines business. Factors influencing the decision to place business with the Syndicate or CEG include licensing eligibilities, capitalization requirements, and client/broker preference. All business underwritten by CGM is accessed through registered brokers. The main lines of business include aviation, property, energy, professional lines, marine, financial lines, political risk, and A H. Competitive Environment Chubb International's primary competitors include U.S.-based companies with global operations, as well as non-U.S. global carriers and indigenous companies in regional and local markets. For the A H lines of business, locally based competitors also include financial institutions and bank owned insurance subsidiaries. Our international operations have the distinct advantage of being part of one of the few international insurance groups with a global network of licensed companies able to write policies on a locally admitted basis. The principal competitive factors that affect the international operations are underwriting expertise and pricing, relative operating efficiency, product differentiation, producer relations, and the quality of policyholder services. A competitive strength of our international operations is our global network and breadth of insurance programs, which assist individuals and business organizations to meet their risk management objectives, while also having a significant presence in all of the countries in which we operate, giving us the advantage of accessing local technical expertise and regulatory environments, understanding local markets and culture, accomplishing a spread of risk, and offering a global network to service multinational accounts. CGM is one of the preeminent international specialty insurers in London and is an established lead underwriter on a significant portion of the risks it underwrites for all lines of business. All lines of business face competition, depending on the business class, from Lloyd's syndicates, the London market, and other major international insurers and reinsurers. Competition for international risks is also seen from domestic insurers in the country of origin of the insured. CGM differentiates itself from competitors through long standing experience in its product lines, its multiple insurance entities (Syndicate 2488 and CEG), and the quality of its underwriting and claims service. Global Reinsurance ( 2 percent of 2019 Consolidated NPE) Overview The Global Reinsur