ITEM 1. Business 2 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 22 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity and R isk Governance 34 ITEM 2. Properties 36 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 36 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 38 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 90 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 95 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements w ith Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 95 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 95 ITEM 9B. Other Information 95 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 95 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 96 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 96 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 96 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 97 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 103 SIGNATURES 103 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-2 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General Chubb Limited is the Swiss-incorporated holding company of the Chubb Group of Companies. Chubb Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the Chubb Group of Companies, Chubb, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, serving the needs of a diverse group of clients worldwide. At December 31, 2023, we had total assets of $231 billion and total Chubb shareholders equity, which excludes noncontrolling interests, of $60 billion. Chubb was incorporated in 1985 at which time it opened its first business office in Bermuda and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda. We have grown our business through increased premium volume, expansio n of product offerings and geographic reach, and the acquisition of other companies, to become a global property and casualty (P C) leader. We expanded our personal accident and supplemental health (A H), and life insurance business with the acquisition of Cigna's business in several Asian markets in 2022. We further advanced our goal of greater product, customer, and geographical diversification with incremental purchases that led to a controlling majority interest in Huatai Insurance Group Co. Ltd (Huatai Group), a Chinese financial services holding company with separate P C, life, and asset management subsidiaries (collectively, Huatai) on July 1, 2023. At December 31, 2023, our ownership interest in Huatai Group was approximately 76.5 percent. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our acquisitions. With operations in 54 countries and territories, Chubb provides commercial and consumer P C insurance, A H, reinsurance, and life insurance to a diverse group of clients. We provide commercial insurance products and service offerings such as risk management programs, loss control, and engineering and complex claims management. We provide specialized insurance products ranging from Directors Officers (D O) and financial lines to various specialty-casualty and umbrella and excess casualty lines to niche areas such as aviation and energy. We also offer consumer lines insurance coverage including homeowners, automobile, valuables, umbrella liability, and recreational marine products. In addition, we supply A H and life insurance to individuals in select countries. We serve multinational corporations, mid-size and small businesses with property and casualty insurance and risk engineering services; affluent and high net worth individuals with substantial assets to protect; individuals purchasing life, personal accident, supplemental health, homeowners, automobile in certain international markets and for high net worth individuals in the U.S., and specialty personal insurance coverage; companies and affinity groups providing or offering accident and health insurance programs and life insurance to their employees or members; and insurers managing exposures with reinsurance coverage. We make available free of charge through our website (investors.chubb.com, under Financials) our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also available through our website (under Investor Relations / Corporate Governance) are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and Charters for the Committees of the Board of Directors (the Board). Printed documents are available by contacting our Investor Relations Department (Telephone: +1 (212) 827-4445, E-mail: investorrelations@chubb.com). We also use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC. Customers For most commercial and personal lines of business we offer, insureds typically use the services of an insurance broker or agent. An insurance broker acts as an agent for the insureds, offering advice on the types and amount of insurance to purchase, and assists in the negotiation of price and terms and conditions. We obtain business from the local and major international insurance brokers and typically pay a commission to brokers for any business accepted and bound. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In our 2 Table of Contents PART I opinion, no material part of our business is dependent upon a single insured or group of insureds. We do not believe that the loss of any one insured would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Competition Competition in the insurance and reinsurance marketplace is substantial. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European, and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, technological, marketing, distribution and management resources than we do. In addition, capital market participants have created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. We also compete with new companies and existing companies that move into the insurance and reinsurance markets. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups (such as group captives and catastrophe pools), and other underwriting organizations. Competitors sell through various distribution channels and business models, across a broad array of product lines, and with a high level of variation regarding geographic, marketing, and customer segmentation. We compete for business not only on the basis of price but also on the basis of availability of coverage desired by customers and quality of service. We also compete in China for assets under management (AUM) with investment management firms, banks, and other financial institutions that offer products that are similar to those offered by Huatai's asset management companies. The insurance industry is changing rapidly. Our ability to compete is dependent on a number of factors, particularly our ability to maintain the appropriate financial strength ratings as assigned by independent rating agencies and effectively using digital capabilities, including the growth of new digital-based distribution models, in an everchanging competitive landscape and incorporating, among other things, climate and environmental changes into our insurance processes, products, and services. Our broad market capabilities in personal, commercial, specialty, and A H lines made available by our underwriting expertise, business infrastructure, and global presence, help define our competitive advantage. Our superior claims service is a significant asset to our business, our business partners and customers, and is unique in the industry. Our strong balance sheet is attractive to businesses, and our strong capital position and global platform affords us opportunities for growth not available to smaller, less diversified insurance companies. Refer to Segment Information for competitive environment by segment. Trademarks and Trade Names Various trademarks and trade names we use protect names of certain products and services we offer and are important to the extent they provide goodwill and name recognition in the insurance industry. We use commercially reasonable efforts to protect these proprietary rights, including various trade secret and trademark laws. We intend to retain material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements of applicable countries. One or more of the trademarks and trade names could be material to our ability to sell our products and services. We have taken appropriate steps to protect our ownership of key names, and we believe it is unlikely that anyone would be able to prevent us from using names in places or circumstances material to our operations. Human Capital Management Our workforce includes approximately 40,000 people across our 54 countries and territories around the world, including 40 percent in North America, 10 percent in Europe, Eurasia and Africa, 37 percent in Asia (including Huatai Group in China), and 13 percent in Latin America. Chubb effectively manages voluntary turnover, which, during 2023, generally moderated and returned to pre-pandemic levels. The average age of our workforce is 41 years, and the average tenure is 7.8 years. We seek to attract, retain, and develop the very best insurance professionals and to provide an inclusive and supportive culture that allows all of our employees to reach their full potential. We strive to achieve a true meritocracy as we recognize our responsibility to ensure that all employees feel comfortable and energized to do their best, contribute, and be recognized and rewarded. We know that our success in a diverse world requires a team reflecting the global diversity of the talent that we seek to recruit. As we continue to recruit and advance top talent, Chubb is committed to improving gender and racial diversity across the company and within our executive leadership. To ensure progress on diversity, we hold our leaders accountable, applying the same rigor to our diversity efforts that exist in other areas of our business. Chubb leadership tracks several metrics that are aligned to our talent objectives, and these are shared and discussed with the Board of Directors (Board). The metrics include workforce diversity, hiring, promotion, retention, turnover and learning and development activity. Senior management also provides our Board with regular updates on matters including employee succession and talent development, including detailed overviews of bench strength and talent profiles multiple levels below the senior executive level, highlighting qualifications, experience, and development areas. In 2023, there was year-over-year progress on gender and racial diversity at the leadership level, most notably on racial diversity at our senior vice president and above levels, and we also improved the diversity of hiring into our development programs. At December 31, 2023, 31 percent of Chubb's U.S. workforce are underrepresented minorities. 3 Table of Contents Chubb Culture Chubb is a diverse group of professionals, committed to Chubb s superior underwriting, service and execution. Our extensive efforts in this area include mentorships, affinity groups, diversity awareness training, and education, open dialogue on race and racism, management development programs, and inclusive hiring practices. We depend on our culture of leadership accountability to foster a diverse and inclusive meritocracy at Chubb. Our embrace of diversity is reflected in Chubb's variety of employee resource groups, called Business Roundtables, that are aimed at fostering an inclusive work environment. These groups provide support, mentorship, and networking opportunities for various underrepresented groups. They also play a significant role in business development, community outreach and influence. Some of the Business Roundtables at Chubb include: Mosaic aims to foster the professional development of diverse talent including Black, Asian and Latinx employees through networking, coaching, mentoring, and through individual Black Alliance, Asian Alliance, and Latinx Alliance Business Roundtables within Mosaic; Impact is dedicated to the support, development, and advancement of women to realize their career goals while strengthening ties to clients, brokers, and the insurance industry; Thrive seeks to advance the development of and engagement of colleagues with visible and invisible disabilities, while leveraging the group s diverse perspectives to strengthen Chubb s culture and market position; Pride provides a supportive community for LGBTQ+ employees and their allies; Salute supports employees who are veterans, active service members, military spouses, and family members. These groups not only help to create a more inclusive work environment, but they also contribute to our overall success by promoting a wide range of ideas and perspectives. In 2023, we also continued our leadership and involvement externally in the Black Insurance Industry Collective (BIIC), whose mission is to accelerate the advancement of Black professionals within the insurance industry and to increase representation of Black leaders at the executive level. Other internal programs include: Chubb Start, which supports the continuous professional development of women who are early in their careers; Chubb Signatures, a global and regional lecture series for successful senior women, diverse men and inclusion champions to share their unique backgrounds, experiences and hard-earned lessons in business; and Advancing Women Leaders, a global program to enable executives to understand challenges and opportunities for advancing women. Talent Strategy Our ability to deliver excellence in underwriting and superior service depends upon attracting, retaining, and engaging top talent and building a talent pipeline for the future. Chubb has several formalized programs to support the recruitment and retention of the talent that is necessary to the growth and success of our business. Formal training and development opportunities include the Chubb Associate Program in North America, which is a technical, experiential learning program for early career professionals. In addition, Chubb Apprenticeships are earn-and-learn programs that combine formal classroom learning with on-the-job training. Chubb recruits early-career professionals without a 4-year university degree for Apprentice roles in Claims, Underwriting and Technology. Since inception eighteen months ago, more than 50 Apprentices have been hired in North America; 89 percent are racially diverse, 53 percent are women, and 81 percent are still with the organization, having graduated into full-time positions. Compensation and Benefits Chubb is committed to delivering competitive compensation and benefits to its employees worldwide to attract and retain a highly qualified, experienced, talented, and motivated workforce. We vary and adjust our compensation to support the human resources requirements of our business in markets around the world and we utilize various analytical tools to monitor and address racial and gender pay equity. Additionally, we structure our compensation programs for leaders to include a mix of short- and long-term awards, with a focus on linking pay to Chubb's performance and the enhancement of shareholder value over the medium- and long-term. Segment Information Chubb operates through six business segments: North America Commercial P C Insurance, North America Personal P C Insurance, North America Agricultural Insurance, Overseas General Insurance, Global Reinsurance, and Life Insurance. In 2023, consolidated net premiums earned (NPE) was $45.7 billion. On July 1, 2023, in connection with obtaining a controlling ownership interest in Huatai Group, we discontinued equity method accounting and applied consolidation accounting to our investment. Therefore, the business activity for, and the financial position of, Huatai Group is reported at 100 percent on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of that date. The relevant amounts attributable to shareholders other than Chubb are reflected under Noncontrolling interests. Huatai Group's life insurance and asset management businesses are included in the Life Insurance segment, and Huatai Group's P C business is included in the Overseas General Insurance segment. Results for Huatai Group's non-insurance operations, comprising real estate and holding company activity, are included in Corporate. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our segments. 4 Table of Contents North America Commercial P C Insurance (40 percent of 2023 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Commercial P C Insurance segment comprises operations that provide P C and A H insurance and services to large, middle market, and small commercial businesses in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes: Commercial Insurance (40 percent of this segment's 2023 NPE), which includes our retail division focused on middle market customers and small businesses Major Accounts (38 percent of this segment's 2023 NPE), our retail division focused on large institutional organizations and corporate companies Westchester (17 percent of this segment's 2023 NPE), our wholesale and specialty division Chubb Bermuda (5 percent of this segment s 2023 NPE), our high excess retail division Products and Distribution The Commercial Insurance operations provide a broad range of P C, financial lines, and A H products targeted to U.S and Canadian-based middle market customers in a variety of industries, while the Small Commercial operations provide a broad range of property and casualty, workers' compensation, small commercial management and professional liability for small businesses based in the U.S. Commercial Insurance products and services offered include traditional property and casualty lines of business, including Package, which combines property and general liability, workers' compensation, automobile, umbrella; financial lines of business, including professional liability, management liability and cyber risk coverage; and other lines including environmental, A H, and international coverages. Commercial Insurance distributes its insurance products through a North American network of independent retail agents and regional, multinational and digital brokers. Generally, our customers purchase insurance through a single retail agent or broker, do not employ a risk management department, and do not retain significant risk through self-insured retentions. The majority of our customers purchase a Package product or a portfolio of products, which is a collection of insurance offerings designed to cover various needs. Small Commercial Insurance products and services offered include property and casualty lines of business, including a business owner policy which contains property and general liability; financial l ines, including professional liability, management liability and cyber risk coverage; and other lines including workers compensation, automobile liabilit y, and international coverages. Products are generally offered through a North American network of independent agents and retail brokers, as well as eTraditional, which are digital platforms where we electronically quote, bind, and issue for agents and brokers. An example of this is the Chubb Marketplace. Major Accounts provides a broad array of commercial lines of products and services, including traditional and specialty P C, risk management, and A H products to large U.S. and Canadian-based institutional organizations and corporate companies. Major Accounts distributes its insurance products primarily through a limited number of retail brokers. In addition to using brokers, certain products are also distributed through general agents, independent agents, managing general agents (MGA), managing general underwriters, alliances, affinity groups, and direct marketing operations. Products and services offered include property, professional liability, cyber risk, excess casualty, workers compensation, general liability, automobile liability, commercial marine, surety, environmental, construction, medical risk, inland marine, A H coverages, as well as claims and risk management products and services. The Major Accounts operations are organized into the following distinct business units, each offering specialized products and services targeted at specific markets: Chubb Global Casualty offers a range of customized risk management primary casualty products designed to help large insureds, including national accounts, and managing risk for workers compensation, general liability, and automobile liability coverages as well as offering casualty insurance solutions for commercial real estate. Chubb Global Casualty also provides products which insure specific global operating risks of U.S.-based multinational companies and include deductible programs, captive programs, and paid or incurred loss retrospective plans. Within Chubb Global Casualty, Chubb Alternative Risk Solutions Group underwrites contractual indemnification policies which provides prospective coverage for loss events within the insured s policy retention levels, and underwrites assumed loss portfolio transfer (LPT) contracts in which insured loss events have occurred prior to the inception of the contract. Property provides products and services including primary, quota share and excess all-risk insurance, risk management programs and services, commercial, inland marine, and aerospace products. 5 Table of Contents Casualty Risk provides coverages including umbrella and excess liability, environmental risk, casualty programs for commercial construction related projects for companies and institutions, and medical risk specialty liability products for the healthcare industry. Surety offers a wide variety of surety products and specializes in underwriting both commercial and contract bonds and has the capacity for bond issuance on an international basis. Accident Health (A H) products are targeted to large corporate and affinity groups, and include employee benefit plans, occupational accident, student accident, and worldwide travel accident and global medical programs. With respect to products that include supplemental medical and hospital indemnity coverages, we typically pay fixed amounts for claims and are therefore insulated from rising healthcare costs. A H also provides specialty consumer lines products, including credit card enhancement programs (identity theft, rental car collision damage waiver, trip travel, and purchase protection benefits). Financial Lines provides management liability and professional liability (D O and E O), transactional risk, and cyber risk products to public companies as well as to private and not for profit organizations. ESIS Inc. (ESIS) is an in-house third-party claims administrator that performs claims management and risk control services for domestic and international organizations as well as for the North America Commercial P C Insurance segment. ESIS services include comprehensive medical managed care; integrated disability services; pre-loss control and risk management; health, safety, and environmental consulting; salvage and subrogation; and healthcare recovery services. The net results for ESIS are included in North America Commercial P C Insurance s administrative expenses. Westchester is our wholesale and specialty division that serves the market for business risks that tend to be hard to place or not easily covered by traditional policies due to unique or complex exposures and provides specialty products for property, casualty, environmental, professional liability, inland marine, product recall, small business, binding and program coverages in the U.S. and Canada. Products are offered through the wholesale distribution channel. Chubb Bermuda is our high excess retail division which provides commercial insurance products on an excess basis including excess liability, D O, professional liability, property, and political risk, the latter being written by Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd., a wholly-owned managing agent. Chubb Bermuda focuses on Fortune 1000 companies and targets risks that are generally low in frequency and high in severity. Products are offered primarily through the Bermuda offices of major, internationally recognized insurance brokers. Competitive Environment The Commercial Insurance operations compete against numerous insurance companies ranging from large national carriers to small and mid-size insurers who provide specialty coverages and standard P C products. Recent competitive developments include the growth of new digital-based distribution models. Westchester competes against a number of large, national carriers as well as regional competitors and other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions and captive programs. Chubb Bermuda competes against international commercial carriers writing business on an excess of loss basis. Major Accounts competes against a number of large, global carriers as well as regional competitors and other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions and captive programs. The markets in which we compete are subject to significant cycles of fluctuating capacity and wide disparities in price adequacy. We pursue a specialist strategy and focus on market opportunities where we can compete effectively based on service levels and product design, while still achieving an adequate level of profitability. We also achieve a competitive advantage through Major Accounts innovative product offerings and our ability to provide multiple products to a single client due to our nationwide local presence. In addition, all our domestic commercial units are able to deliver global products and coverage to customers in concert with our Overseas General Insurance segment. North America Personal P C Insurance (12 percent of 2023 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Personal P C Insurance segment includes the business written by Chubb Personal Risk Services division, which includes high net worth personal lines business, with operations in the U.S. and Canada. This segment provides affluent and high net worth individuals and families with homeowners, high value automobile and collector cars, valuable articles (including fine arts), personal and excess liability/umbrella, travel insurance, cyber, and recreational marine insurance and services. Our homeowners business, including valuable articles, represented 69 percent of North America Personal P C Insurance s net premiums earned in 2023. 6 Table of Contents Products and Distribution Chubb Personal Risk Services offers comprehensive personal insurance products and services to meet the evolving needs of high net worth families and individuals. Our seamless customer experience and superior coverage protect not only our clients most valuable possessions, but also their standard of living. Our target customers consist of high net worth consumers with insurance needs that typically extend beyond what mass market carriers can offer. These coverages are offered on both an admitted and excess and surplus lines basis through independent regional agents and brokers, as well as digital partnerships. Competitive Environment Chubb Personal Risk Services competes against insurance companies of varying sizes that sell personal lines products through various distribution channels, including retail agents as well as online distribution channels. We achieve a competitive advantage through our ability to address the specific needs of high net worth families and individuals, to provide superior service to our customers, and to develop and deploy digital production and processes. North America Agricultural Insurance (7 percent of 2023 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Agricultural Insurance segment comprises our U.S. and Canadian based businesses that provide a variety of coverages including crop insurance, primarily Multiple Peril Crop Insurance (MPCI) and crop-hail insurance through Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. (Rain and Hail) as well as farm and ranch and specialty P C commercial insurance products and services through our Chubb Agribusiness unit. Products and Distribution Rain and Hail provides comprehensive MPCI and crop-hail insurance coverages. MPCI is federally subsidized crop protection from numerous causes of loss, including drought, excessive moisture, freeze, disease 