ITEM 1. Business 2 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 21 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 ITEM 2. Properties 33 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 33 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 35 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 85 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 89 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements w ith Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 ITEM 9B. Other Information 89 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 89 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 90 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 90 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 90 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 91 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 91 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements Schedules 92 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 99 SIGNATURES 100 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-2 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General Chubb Limited is the Swiss-incorporated holding company of the Chubb Group of Companies. Chubb Limited, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the Chubb Group of Companies, Chubb, we, us, or our) are a global insurance and reinsurance organization, serving the needs of a diverse group of clients worldwide. At December 31, 2021, we had total assets of $200 billion and shareholders equity of $60 billion. Chubb was incorporated in 1985 at which time it opened its first business office in Bermuda and continues to maintain operations in Bermuda. We have grown our business through increased premium volume, expansion of product offerings and geographic reach, and the acquisition of other companies to become a global property and casualty (P C) leader. With operations in 54 countries and territories, Chubb provides commercial and consumer P C insurance, personal accident and supplemental health insurance (A H), reinsurance, and life insurance to a diverse group of clients. We provide commercial insurance products and service offerings such as risk management programs, loss control, and engineering and complex claims management. We provide specialized insurance products ranging from Directors Officers (D O) and financial lines to various specialty-casualty and umbrella and excess casualty lines to niche areas such as aviation and energy. We also offer consumer lines insurance coverage including homeowners, automobile, valuables, umbrella liability, and recreational marine products. In addition, we supply A H and life insurance to individuals in select countries. We serve multinational corporations, mid-size and small businesses with property and casualty insurance and risk engineering services; affluent and high net worth individuals with substantial assets to protect; individuals purchasing life, personal accident, supplemental health, homeowners, automobile in certain international markets and for high net worth individuals in the U.S., and specialty personal insurance coverage; companies and affinity groups providing or offering accident and health insurance programs and life insurance to their employees or members; and insurers managing exposures with reinsurance coverage. We make available free of charge through our website (investors.chubb.com, under Financials) our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, if any, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also available through our website (under Investor Relations / Corporate Governance) are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and Charters for the Committees of the Board of Directors (the Board). Printed documents are available by contacting our Investor Relations Department (Telephone: +1 (212) 827-4445, E-mail: investorrelations@chubb.com). We also use our website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC. Customers For most commercial and personal lines of business we offer, insureds typically use the services of an insurance broker or agent. An insurance broker acts as an agent for the insureds, offering advice on the types and amount of insurance to purchase, and assists in the negotiation of price and terms and conditions. We obtain business from the local and major international insurance brokers and typically pay a commission to brokers for any business accepted and bound. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In our opinion, no material part of our business is dependent upon a single insured or group of insureds. We do not believe that the loss of any one insured would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 2 Table of Contents Competition Competition in the insurance and reinsurance marketplace is substantial. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European, and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, technological, marketing, distribution and management resources than we do. In addition, capital market participants have created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. We also compete with new companies and existing companies that move into the insurance and reinsurance markets. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups (such as group captives and catastrophe pools), and other underwriting organizations. Competitors sell through various distribution channels and business models, across a broad array of product lines, and with a high level of variation regarding geographic, marketing, and customer segmentation. We compete for business not only on the basis of price but also on the basis of availability of coverage desired by customers and quality of service. The insurance industry is changing rapidly. Our ability to compete is dependent on a number of factors, particularly our ability to maintain the appropriate financial strength ratings as assigned by independent rating agencies and effectively using digital capabilities in an everchanging competitive landscape and incorporating, among other things, climate and environmental changes into our insurance processes, products, and services. Our broad market capabilities in personal, commercial, specialty, and A H lines made available by our underwriting expertise, business infrastructure, and global presence, help define our competitive advantage. Our superior claims service is a significant asset to our business, our business partners and customers, and is unique in the industry. Our strong balance sheet is attractive to businesses, and our strong capital position and global platform affords us opportunities for growth not available to smaller, less diversified insurance companies. Refer to Segment Information for competitive environment by segment. Trademarks and Trade Names Various trademarks and trade names we use protect names of certain products and services we offer and are important to the extent they provide goodwill and name recognition in the insurance industry. We use commercially reasonable efforts to protect these proprietary rights, including various trade secret and trademark laws. We intend to retain material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements of applicable countries. One or more of the trademarks and trade names could be material to our ability to sell our products and services. We have taken appropriate steps to protect our ownership of key names, and we believe it is unlikely that anyone would be able to prevent us from using names in places or circumstances material to our operations. Human Capital Management Our employees are critical to our mission to protect the present and build a better future, by providing our customers with the security from risk that allows people and businesses to grow and prosper. To accomplish this mission, we seek to attract and retain the very best insurance professionals and to provide an inclusive and supportive culture that allows all of our employees to reach their full potential as we deliver insurance solutions and claims service for individuals, families and businesses of all sizes. Our highly collaborative, inclusive approach helps us drive better business outcomes. We track and report internally on key talent metrics including employee demographics, critical role succession planning, diversity data, and employee retention and engagement. This information is regularly reported to senior management as well as the Chubb Board of Directors. On De cember 31, 2021, we employed approximately 31,000 people in 54 countries and territories around the world, including 51.4 percent in North America, 12.3 percent in Europe, Eurasia and Africa, 20.0 percent in Asia, and 16.3 percent in Latin America. While we have not been immune from voluntary turnover generally reflecting the highly competitive environment for talent, we believe we have effectively managed it through talent acquisition and retention actions. We believe that employee relations are good. The average age of our workforce is 41.4 years and the average tenure is 8.2 years. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, equity and inclusion are integral to Chubb s culture. We recognize our responsibility to provide opportunity within our own organization, where we aim to foster a diverse and inclusive meritocracy. Our extensive efforts in this area include mentorships, affinity groups, diversity awareness training, and education, open dialogue on race and racism, management development programs, and inclusive hiring practices. We set goals and track progress on improving gender and racial diversity, particularly at the leadership levels and with early career program hires. We also look at the diversity rates in our hires and promotions and the diversity of our candidate interview slates for leadership roles. In 2021, there was year over year progress on gender and racial diversity at the leadership level, most notably on gender and racial diversity at our senior vice president and above levels, and we also improved the diversity of hiring into our development programs. 3 Table of Contents In 2021 we continued to support our Business Roundtables (our employee affinity groups) and Regional Inclusion Councils, which promote dynamic networking across the business and engage hundreds of employees in constructive dialogue. These circles of support focus on employee onboarding, development and retention and help us build stronger relationships with, and gain deeper insights into, our varied customer and distribution partner communities. Other programs include Chubb Start, which supports the continuous professional development of women who are early in their careers, and Chubb Signatures, a global and regional lecture series for successful senior women, diverse men and inclusion champions to share their unique backgrounds, experi ences and hard-earned lessons in business. We also added programs in 2021 that support inclusive leadership, including a focus on inclusive hiring practices and intentional inclusion training to create greater awareness and proficiency in attracting and hiring diverse talent and building diverse teams. We played a key role in establishing an industry group the Black Insurance Industry Collective (BIIC) whose mission is to accelerate the advancement of Black professionals within the insurance industry and to increase representation of Black leaders at the executive level through leadership development, mentoring, sponsorships and networking within the industry. In addition, we remain attuned to demographic shifts within our workforce and society to evaluate and update employee policies, procedures and systems that reflect this commitment. We depend on our culture of leadership accountability to continue progress in diversity, equity and inclusion at Chubb. Attraction, Development and Retention The foundation to Chubb s long-term success is our disciplined approach to attracting, developing and retaining the next generation of insurance professionals and leaders. We strive to be an inclusive meritocracy, where all employees regardless of race, gender or background can thrive. Learning and professional development are central to the Chubb culture, and we are committed to providing opportunities to evolve professionally. Our talent development efforts are for all employee levels and we expect our employees to own and drive their development by availing themselves of the structured and unstructured learning we offer, including on-the-job training, personal interaction and involvement, and online and classroom learning. Chubb has made substantial investments for a robust technical and leadership development environment and, where appropriate, fills open positions with internal sourcing of talent. In addition, in response to the increasingly competitive labor market, we have taken steps to retain key talent, with competitive compensation actions including long-term incentives and more development opportunities, and to deepen our talent acquisition efforts by adding more recruiters and enhancing our employee referral program. Globally, we promoted more than 4,700 employees and successfully recruited more than 4,500 new employees (including more than 360 into early career programs) to fill openings and to support our growth plans. Compensation and Benefits Chubb is committed to delivering competitive compensation and benefits to its employees worldwide as a means to attract and retain a highly qualified, experienced, talented and motivated workforce. We vary and adjust our offerings to support the human resources requirements of our business in markets around the world in which we operate. Additionally, we structure our compensation programs for leaders to include a mix of short- and long-term awards, with a focus on linking pay to Chubb's performance and the enhancement of shareholder value over the medium- and long-term. Segment Information Chubb operates through six business segments: North America Commercial P C Insurance, North America Personal P C Insurance, North America Agricultural Insurance, Overseas General Insurance, Global Reinsurance, and Life Insurance. In 2021, consolidated net premiums earned (NPE) was $36.4 billion. Additional financial information about our segments is included in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. North America Commercial P C Insurance (42 percent of 2021 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Commercial P C Insurance segment comprises operations that provide commercial and consumer P C insurance and services to large, middle market, and small commercial businesses in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes: Major Accounts (39 percent of this segment's 2021 NPE), the retail division focused on large institutional organizations and corporate companies Commercial Insurance (40 percent of this segment's 2021 NPE), which includes the retail division focused on middle market customers and small businesses Westchester and Chubb Bermuda (21 percent of this segment's 2021 NPE), our wholesale and specialty divisions 4 Table of Contents Products and Distribution Major Accounts provides a broad array of commercial lines of products and services, including traditional and specialty P C, and risk management, as well as consumer A H products to large U.S. and Canadian-based institutional organizations and corporate companies. Major Accounts distributes its insurance products primarily through a limited number of retail brokers. In addition to using brokers, certain products are also distributed through general agents, independent agents, managing general agents (MGA), managing general underwriters, alliances, affinity groups, and direct marketing operations. Products and services offered include property, professional liability, cyber risk, excess casualty, workers compensation, general liability, automobile liability, commercial marine, surety, environmental, construction, medical risk, inland marine, A H coverages, as well as claims and risk management products and services. The Major Accounts operations are organized into the following distinct business units, each offering specialized products and services targeted at specific markets: Chubb Global Casualty offers a range of customized risk management primary casualty products designed to help large insureds, including national accounts, and managing risk for workers compensation, general liability and automobile liability coverages as well as offering casualty insurance solutions for commercial real estate. Chubb Global Casualty also provides products which insure specific global operating risks of U.S.-based multinational companies and include deductible programs, captive programs, and paid or incurred loss retrospective plans. Within Chubb Global Casualty, Chubb Alternative Risk Solutions Group underwrites contractual indemnification policies which provides prospective coverage for loss events within the insured s policy retention levels and underwrites assumed loss portfolio transfer (LPT) contracts in which insured loss events have occurred prior to the inception of the contract. Property provides products and services including primary, quota share and excess all-risk insurance, risk management programs and services, commercial, inland marine, and aerospace products. Casualty Risk provides coverages including umbrella and excess liability, environmental risk, casualty programs for commercial construction related projects for companies and institutions, and medical risk specialty liability products for the healthcare industry. Surety offers a wide variety of surety products and specializes in underwriting both commercial and contract bonds and has the capacity for bond issuance on an international basis. Accident Health (A H) products include employee benefit plans, occupational accident, student accident, and worldwide travel accident and global medical programs. With respect to products that include supplemental medical and hospital indemnity coverages, we typically pay fixed amounts for claims and are therefore insulated from rising healthcare costs. A H also provides specialty personal lines products, including credit card enhancement programs (identity theft, rental car collision damage waiver, trip travel, and purchase protection benefits) distributed through affinity groups. Financial Lines provides management liability and professional liability (D O and E O), transactional risk and cyber risk products to public companies as well as to private and not for profit organizations. ESIS Inc. (ESIS) is an in-house third-party claims administrator that performs claims management and risk control services for domestic and international organizations as well as for the North America Commercial P C Insurance segment. ESIS services include comprehensive medical managed care; integrated disability services; pre-loss control and risk management; health, safety and environmental consulting; salvage and subrogation; and healthcare recovery services. The net results for ESIS are included in North America Commercial P C Insurance s administrative expenses. The Commercial Insurance operations, which include Small Commercial, provides a broad range of P C, financial lines, and A H products targeted to U.S and Canadian-based middle market customers in a variety of industries, while the Small Commercial operations provide a broad range of property and casualty, workers' compensation, small commercial management and professional liability for small businesses based in the U.S. Commercial Insurance products and services offered include traditional property and casualty lines of business, including Package, which combines property and general liability, workers' compensation, automobile, umbrella; financial lines of business, including professional liability, management liability and cyber risk coverage; and other lines including environmental, A H, and international coverages. Commercial Insurance distributes its insurance products through a North American network of independent retail agents, and regional, multinational and digital brokers. Generally, our customers purchase insurance through a single retail agent or broker, do not employ a risk management department, and do not retain significant risk through self-insured retentions. The majority of our customers purchase a Package product or a portfolio of products, which is a collection of insurance offerings designed to cover various needs. 5 Table of Contents Small Commercial Insurance products and services offered include property and casualty lines of business, including a business owner policy which contains property and general liability; financial l ines, including professional liability, management liability, cyber risk; and other lines including workers compensation, automobile liabilit y, and international coverages. Products are generally offered through a North American network of independent agents and brokers, as well as eTraditional, which are digital platforms where we electronically quote, bind, and issue for agents and brokers. An example of this is the Chubb Marketplace. Wholesale and Specialty comprises Westchester and Chubb Bermuda. Westchester serves the market for business risks that tend to be hard to place or not easily covered by traditional policies due to unique or complex exposures and provides specialty products for property, casualty, environmental, professional liability, inland marine, product recall, small business, binding and program coverages in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. Products are offered through the wholesale distribution channel. Chubb Bermuda provides commercial insurance products on an excess basis including excess liability, D O, professional liability, property, and political risk, the latter being written by Sovereign Risk Insurance Ltd., a wholly-owned managing agent. Chubb Bermuda focuses on Fortune 1000 companies and targets risks that are generally low in frequency and high in severity. Products are offered primarily through the Bermuda offices of major, internationally recognized insurance brokers. Competitive Environment Major Accounts competes against a number of large, global carriers as well as regional competitors and other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions and captive programs. The markets in which we compete are subject to significant cycles of fluctuating capacity and wide disparities in price adequacy. We pursue a specialist strategy and focus on market opportunities where we can compete effectively based on service levels and product design, while still achieving an adequate level of profitability. We also achieve a competitive advantage through Major Accounts innovative product offerings and our ability to provide multiple products to a single client due to our nationwide local presence. In addition, all our domestic commercial units are able to deliver global products and coverage to customers in concert with our Overseas General Insurance segment. The Commercial Insurance operations compete against numerous insurance companies ranging from large national carriers to small and mid-size insurers who provide specialty coverages and standard P C products. Recent competitive developments include the growth of new digital-based distribution models. Westchester competes against a number of large, national carriers as well as regional competitors and other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions and captive programs. Chubb Bermuda competes against international commercial carriers writing business on an excess of loss basis. North America Personal P C Insurance (14 percent of 2021 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Personal P C Insurance segment includes the business written by Chubb Personal Risk Services division, which includes high net worth personal lines business, with operations in the U.S. and Canada. This segment provides affluent and high net worth individuals and families with homeowners, high value automobile and collector cars, valuable articles (including fine arts), personal and excess liability, travel insurance, cyber, and recreational marine insurance and services. Our homeowners business, including valuable articles, represented 69 percent of North America Personal P C Insurance s net premiums earned in 2021. Products and Distribution Chubb Personal Risk Services offers comprehensive personal insurance products and services to meet the evolving needs of high net worth families and individuals. Our seamless customer experience and superior coverage protect not only our clients most valuable possessions, but also their standard of living. Our target customers consist of high net worth consumers with insurance needs that typically extend beyond what mass market carriers can offer. These coverages are offered solely through independent regional agents and brokers. Competitive Environment Chubb Personal Risk Services competes against insurance companies of varying sizes that sell personal lines products through various distribution channels, including retail agents as well as online distribution channels. We achieve a competitive advantage through our ability to address the specific needs of high net worth families and individuals, to provide superior service to our customers, and to develop and deploy digital production and processes. 6 Table of Contents North America Agricultural Insurance (6 percent of 2021 Consolidated NPE) Overview The North America Agricultural Insurance segment comprises our U.S. and Canadian-based businesses that provide a variety of coverages including crop insurance, primarily Multiple Peril Crop Insurance (MPCI) and crop-hail insurance through Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. (Rain and Hail) as well as farm and ranch and specialty P C commercial insurance products and services through our Chubb Agribusiness unit. Products and Distribution Rain and Hail provides comprehensive MPCI and crop-hail insurance coverages. MPCI is federally subsidized crop protection from numerous causes of loss, including drought, excessive moisture, freeze, disease and more. The MPCI program is offered in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Agriculture. MPCI products include revenue protection (defined as providing both commodity price and yield coverages), yield protection, margin protection, prevented planting coverage and replant coverage. For additional information on our MPCI program, refer to Crop Insurance under Item 7. Crop-Hail coverage provides crop protection from damage caused by hail and/or fire, with options in some markets for other perils such as wind or theft. Coverage is provided on an acre-by-acre basis and is available in the U.S. and in some parts of Canada. Crop-Hail can be used in conjunction with MPCI or other comprehensive coverages to offset the deductible and provide protection up to the actual cash value of the crop. Chubb Agribusiness comprises Commercial Agribusiness and Farm and Ranch Agribusiness. Commercial Agribusiness offers specialty P C coverages for commercial companies that manufacture, process and distribute agricultural products. Commercial products and services include property, general liability for premises/operations and product liability, commercial automobile, workers' compensation, employment practices liability coverage, built-in coverage for premises pollution, cyber and information security, and product withdrawal. Farm and Ranch Agribusiness offers an extensive line of coverages for farming operations from Hobby/Gentleman farms to complex corporate farms and equine services including personal use, boarding, and training. Coverages include farm and ranch structures, machinery and other equipment, automobile and other vehicle coverages, and livestock. Competitive Environment Rain and Hail primarily operates in a federally regulated program where all approved providers offer the same product forms and rates through independent and/or captive agents. We seek a competitive advantage through our ability to provide superior service to our customers, including the development of digital solutions. Chubb Agribusiness competes against both national and regional competitors offering specialty P C insurance coverages to companies that manufacture, process, and distribute agricultural products. Overseas General Insurance (29 percent of 2021 Consolidated NPE) Overview The Overseas General Insu