Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 35 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 60 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 60 Item 2. Properties 62 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 63 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 63 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 64 Item 6. Selected Financial Data N/A Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 67 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 100 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 106 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 164 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 164 Item 9B. Other Information 164 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 164 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 165 Item 11. Executive Compensation 165 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 165 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 165 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 165 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 166 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 173 2 Table of Contents CERTAIN DEFINED TERMS Throughout this document, unless otherwise specified or the context so requires: Cboe, we, us, our or the Company refers to Cboe Global Markets, Inc. and its subsidiaries. ADV means average daily volume. ADNV means average daily notional value. AFM refers to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets. ATS refers to an alternative trading system. Bats Global Markets and Bats refer to our wholly-owned subsidiary Bats Global Markets, Inc., now known as Cboe Bats, LLC, and its subsidiaries. BIDS Trading refers to BIDS Trading, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. The ATS operated by BIDS Trading is not a registered national securities exchange or a facility thereof. BYX refers to Cboe BYX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. BZX refers to Cboe BZX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. C2 refers to Cboe C2 Exchange, Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Asia Pacific refers to Cboe Asia Pacific Holdings Limited (formerly known as Chi-X Asia Pacific Holdings Limited), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Australia refers to Cboe Australia Pty Ltd. (formerly known as Chi-X Australia Pty. Ltd.), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Canada refers to the former Aequitas Innovations, Inc. and Neo Exchange Inc. (commonly referred to as NEO Exchange ), which were wholly-owned subsidiaries of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Canada Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. and a recognized Canadian securities exchange. As of January 1, 2024, the Cboe Canada and MATCHNow entities have been amalgamated into Cboe Canada Inc. Cboe Chi-X Europe refers to Cboe Chi-X Europe Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Clear Digital refers to Cboe Clear Digital, LLC (formerly known as Eris Clearing, LLC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Clear Europe refers to Cboe Clear Europe N.V. (formerly known as European Central Counterparty N.V., formerly defined as EuroCCP ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Digital refers to Cboe Digital Intermediate Holdings, LLC (formerly known as Eris Digital Holdings, LLC) and its subsidiaries. Prior to rebranding under the Cboe Digital name, Eris Digital Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries operated under the ErisX name. Cboe Europe Equities and Derivatives refers to the combined businesses of Cboe Europe and Cboe NL. Cboe Europe refers to Cboe Europe Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the UK operator of our Multilateral Trading Facility ( MTF ), our Regulated Market ( RM ), and our Approved Publication Arrangement ( APA ) under its Recognized Investment Exchange ( RIE ) status. Cboe Fixed Income refers to Cboe Fixed Income Markets, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe FX refers to Cboe FX Markets, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Japan refers to Cboe Japan Ltd. (formerly known as Chi-X Japan Ltd.), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe NL refers to Cboe Europe BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the Netherlands operator of our MTF, RM, and APA. Cboe Options refers to Cboe Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe SEF refers to Cboe SEF, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Trading refers to Cboe Trading, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. CFE refers to Cboe Futures Exchange, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. CFTC refers to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. CSD Br refers to CSD Central de Servi os de Registro e Dep sito aos Mercados Financeiro e de Capitais S.A., a Brazilian trade repository. CIRO refers to the Canadian Investment Regulatory Organization. EDGA refers to Cboe EDGA Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. EDGX refers to Cboe EDGX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. ESMA refers to the European Securities and Markets Authority. Exchanges refers to Cboe Options, C2, BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA. 3 Table of Contents FASB refers to the Financial Accounting Standards Board. FCA refers to the UK Financial Conduct Authority. FINRA refers to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. GAAP refers to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. MATCHNow refers to the former TriAct Canada Marketplace LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., which was the operator of a Canadian ATS (known as MATCHNow ). Merger refers to our acquisition of Bats Global Markets, completed on February 28, 2017. OCC refers to The Options Clearing Corporation. OPRA refers to Options Price Reporting Authority, LLC. SEC refers to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. SPX refers to our S P 500 Index exchange-traded options products. TPH refers to either a Trading Permit Holder or a Trading Privilege Holder. VIX futures or VIX options refers, as applicable, to our Cboe Volatility Index exchange traded options and futures products. 4 Table of Contents TRADEMARK AND OTHER INFORMATION Cboe , Cboe Global Markets , Cboe Clear , Cboe LIS , Bats , BIDS Trading , BYX , BZX , Cboe Volatility Index , CFE , EDGA , EDGX , ErisX , EuroCCP , Hybrid , LiveVol , MATCHNow , NANO , Options Institute , Silexx , VIX , and XSP are registered trademarks, and Cboe Futures Exchange SM , Cboe BIDS Europe SM , Cboe Digital SM , C2 SM , f(t)options SM , Hanweck SM , Nanos by Cboe SM , The Exchange for the World Stage SM , Trade Alert SM , and VIX1D SM are service marks of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Standard Poor's , S P , S P 100 , S P 500 and SPX are registered trademarks and DSPX SM is a service mark of Standard Poor's Financial Services LLC and have been licensed for use by Cboe Exchange, Inc. Dow Jones , Dow Jones Industrial Average , DJIA and Dow Jones Indices are registered trademarks or service marks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings, LLC, used under license. Russell and the Russell index names are registered trademarks of Frank Russell Company, used under license. FTSE and the FTSE indices are trademarks and service marks of FTSE International Limited, used under license. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. MSCI and the MSCI index names are service marks of MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ) or its affiliates and have been licensed for use by us. Any derivative indices and any financial products based on the derivative indices ( MCSI-Based Products ) are not sponsored, guaranteed or endorsed by MSCI, its affiliates or any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling such MSCI index. Neither MSCI, its affiliates nor any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling any MSCI index makes any representations regarding the advisability of investing in such MSCI-Based Products; makes any warranty, express or implied; or bears any liability as to the results to be obtained by any person or any entity from the use of any such MSCI index or any data included therein. No purchaser, seller or holder of any MSCI-Based Product, or any other person or entity, should use or refer to any MSCI trade name, trademark or service mark to sponsor, endorse, market or promote any security without first contacting MSCI to determine whether MSCI s permission is required. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes market share and industry data that we obtained from industry publications and surveys, reports of governmental agencies and internal company surveys. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information they contain has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but we cannot assure you that this information is accurate or complete. We have not independently verified any of the data from third-party sources nor have we ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein. Statements as to our market position are based on the most currently available market data. While we are not aware of any misstatements regarding industry data presented herein, our estimates involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors. Please refer to the Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC. 5 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "might," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential" or "continue," and the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. All statements that reflect our expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements in "Business" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These forward-looking statements, which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the risks and uncertainties described under "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report and other filings with the SEC. While we believe we have identified material risks, these risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: the loss of our right to exclusively list and trade certain index options and futures products; economic, political and market conditions; compliance with legal and regulatory obligations; price competition and consolidation in our industry; decreases in trading or clearing volumes, market data fees or a shift in the mix of products traded on our exchanges; legislative or regulatory changes or changes in tax regimes; our ability to protect our systems and communication networks from security vulnerabilities and breaches; our ability to attract and retain skilled management and other personnel; increasing competition by foreign and domestic entities; our dependence on and exposure to risk from third parties; global expansion of operations; factors that impact the quality and integrity of our and other applicable indices; our ability to manage our growth and strategic acquisitions or alliances effectively; our ability to operate our business without violating the intellectual property rights of others and the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights; our ability to minimize the risks, including our credit, counterparty, investment, and default risks, associated with operating a European clearinghouse; our ability to accommodate trading and clearing volume and transaction traffic, including significant increases, without failure or degradation of performance of our systems; misconduct by those who use our markets or our products or for whom we clear transactions; challenges to our use of open source software code; our ability to meet our compliance obligations, including managing potential conflicts between our regulatory responsibilities and our for-profit status; our ability to maintain BIDS Trading as an independently managed and operated trading venue, separate from and not integrated with our registered national securities exchanges; damage to our reputation; the ability of our compliance and risk management methods to effectively monitor and manage our risks; restrictions imposed by our debt obligations and our ability to make payments on or refinance our debt obligations; our ability to maintain an investment grade credit rating; impairment of our goodwill, long-lived assets, investments or intangible assets; the impacts of pandemics; the accuracy of our estimates and expectations; 6 Table of Contents litigation risks and other liabilities; and operating a digital asset business, and clearinghouse, including the expected benefits of our Cboe Digital acquisition, cybercrime, changes in digital asset regulation, losses due to digital asset custody, and fluctuations in digital asset prices. For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that might affect our performance, see Part I, Item 1A of this Report. We do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this filing. 7 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business The following description of the business should be read in conjunction with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. This description contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements due to the factors set forth in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the world's leading derivatives and securities exchange network, delivers cutting-edge trading, clearing and investment solutions to people around the world. Cboe provides trading solutions and products in multiple asset classes, including equities, derivatives, FX, and digital assets, across North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Above all, the Company is committed to building a trusted, inclusive global marketplace that enables people to pursue a sustainable financial future. Cboe s subsidiaries include the largest options exchange and the third largest stock exchange operator in the U.S. In addition, the Company operates Cboe Europe, one of the largest stock exchanges by value traded in Europe, and owns Cboe Clear Europe, a leading pan-European equities and derivatives clearinghouse, BIDS Holdings, which owns a leading block-trading ATS by volume in the U.S., and provides block-trading services with Cboe market operators in Europe, Canada, Australia, and Japan, Cboe Australia, an operator of trading venues in Australia, Cboe Japan, an operator of trading venues in Japan, Cboe Digital, an operator of a U.S. based digital asset spot market and a regulated futures exchange, Cboe Clear Digital, an operator of a regulated clearinghouse, and Cboe Canada Inc., a recognized Canadian securities exchange. Cboe subsidiaries also serve collectively as a leading market globally for exchange-traded products ( ETPs ) listings and trading. The graphic below provides a brief overview of Cboe s history: 8 Table of Contents Our Business Cboe reports on the following six business segments: Options. The Options segment includes options on market indices ( index options ), as well as on the stocks of individual corporations ( equity options ) and on ETPs such as exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ) and exchange-traded notes ( ETNs ), which are multi-listed options and listed on a non-exclusive basis. These options are eligible to trade, as applicable, on Cboe Options, C2, BZX, EDGX, and/or other U.S. national security exchanges. Cboe Options is the Company s primary options market and offers trading in listed options through a single system that integrates electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading on the Cboe Options trading floor in Chicago. C2 Options, BZX Options, and EDGX Options are all-electronic options exchanges, and typically operate with different market models and fee structures than Cboe Options. The Options segment also includes applicable market data fees revenues generated from the consolidated tape plans, the licensing of proprietary options market data, index licensing, routing services, and access and capacity services. North American Equities. The North American Equities segment includes U.S. equities and ETP transaction services that occur on fully electronic exchanges owned and operated by BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA, equities transactions that occur on the BIDS Trading platform in the U.S. and Canada, and Canadian equities and other transaction services that occur on or through Cboe Canada Inc. s order books. The North American Equities segment also includes listing services on Cboe Canada Inc., corporate and ETP listings on BZX, applicable market data fees revenues generated from the consolidated tape plans, the licensing of proprietary equities market data, routing services, and access and capacity services. Europe and Asia Pacific. The Europe and Asia Pacific segment includes the pan-European listed equities and derivatives transaction services, ETPs, exchange-traded commodities, and international depository receipts that are hosted on MTFs operated by Cboe Europe Equities (Cboe Europe and Cboe NL equities exchanges) and Cboe Europe Derivatives ( CEDX ). It also includes the ETP listings business on RMs and clearing activities of Cboe Clear Europe, as well as the equities transaction services of Cboe Australia and Cboe Japan, operators of trading venues in Australia and Japan, respectively, along with equities transactions that occur on the BIDS Trading platform in Australia and Japan. Cboe Europe operates lit and dark books, a periodic auctions book, and Cboe BIDS Europe, a Large-in-Scale ( LIS ) trading negotiation facility for UK symbols. Cboe NL, launched in October 2019 and based in Amsterdam, operates similar business functionality to that offered by Cboe Europe, and provides for trading only in European Economic Area ( EEA ) symbols. Cboe Europe Derivatives, a pan-European derivatives platform launched in September 2021, offers futures and options based on Cboe Europe equity indices, and single stock options. This segment also includes Cboe Europe, Cboe NL, CEDX, Cboe Australia and Cboe Japan revenue generated from the licensing of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. Futures. The Futures segment includes transaction services provided by CFE, a fully electronic futures exchange, which includes offerings for trading of VIX futures and other futures products, the licensing of proprietary market data, as well as access and capacity services. Global FX. The Global FX segment includes institutional FX trading services that occur on the Cboe FX fully electronic trading platform, non-deliverable forward FX transactions ( NDFs ) offered for execution on Cboe SEF, as well as revenue generated from the licensing of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. The segment includes transaction services for U.S. government securities executed on the Cboe Fixed Income fully electronic trading platform. Digital. The Digital segment includes a U.S. based digital asset spot market, a regulated futures exchange, and a regulated clearinghouse, as well as revenue generated from the licensing of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 16 ( Segment Reporting ) in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of revenues and certain operational and financial metrics, and operating income (or loss) by business segment. Certain activities within our segments operate globally. For information regarding risks related to our international operations see Risk Factors. 9 Table of Contents Executive Transitions On July 6, 2023, Brian Schell, former Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, announced his departure from the Company to pursue a new professional opportunity outside of the exchange industry. Jill Griebenow, Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, was appointed to serve as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Accounting Officer effective July 10, 2023, and currently serves as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. On September 18, 2023 (the Effective Date ), Edward T. Tilly, former Chief Executive Officer of the Company, resigned and voluntarily terminated his employment with the Company. Mr. Tilly also resigned as Chairman of the Company s Board of Directors, effective as of the Effective Date. Mr. Tilly s resignation followed the conclusion of an investigation led by the Board of Directors and outside independent counsel that was launched in late August 2023. The Board of Directors determined that Mr. Tilly did not disclose personal relationships with colleagues, which violated the Company s policies and stands in stark contrast to the Company s values. The conduct was not related to and does not impact the Company s strategy, financial performance, technology and market operations, financial reporting or internal controls over financial reporting. Following Mr. Tilly s resignation, Fredric J. Tomczyk, an existing director of the Company, was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective as of the Effective Date. As a result of Mr. Tomczyk s appointment as Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Tomczyk stepped down from the Board of Directors Compensation Committee and Finance and Strategy Committee as of the Effective Date. Also as of the Effective Date, William M. Farrow III was appointed as non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors (in substitution of his prior role as Lead Director of the Board of Directors). Competitive Strengths Cboe is a leading provider of market infrastructure and tradable products across cash and spot markets, derivatives markets, and data and access solutions. Cboe delivers cutting-edge trading, clearing and investment solutions across the globe through a comprehensive ecosystem that helps drive innovation and growth. 10 Table of Contents Key Growth Strategy Initiatives Our strategy is to build one of the world s largest global derivatives and securities networks to create value and drive growth by: Innovating to capture growing demand for trading products and data services, globally. We plan to increase access to data products and trading solutions, provide unrivaled transaction capabilities, and have a global presence in the highest value markets. In 2023, we delivered on this initiative by expanding the use of zero days to expiry (0-DTE) products, expanding Cboe Global Indices to Europe, launching the 1-Day Volatility Index (VIX1D), designed to measure volatility over the current trading day, launching the Cboe S P 500 Dispersion Index (DSPX), a volatility index designed to measure expected dispersion in the S P 500 Index, launching new options on futures on two corporate bond index products, and launching four new Credit VIX Indices, designed to provide a VIX Index-like measures for credit market volatility. Unlocking the value capabilities of our ecosystems to increase efficiency and better serve customers. We aim to unlock the value, capabilities, and efficiencies of our ecosystems to increase efficiency and utilize our client coordination model to better serve our customers. We leverage industry-leading technology, apply a non-siloed integration approach to expand ecosystems and fuel our flywheel and generate strong free cash flow as we improve operating efficiency. In 2023, we delivered on this initiative by completing the migration of Cboe Australia and Cboe Japan to the Cboe technology platform, launching BIDS in Australia and Japan, successfully integrating Cboe Canada (which was the trade name of the former Aequitas Innovations Inc. and Neo Exchange Inc.) and the MATCHNow ATS into Cboe Canada Inc., a recognized Canadian securities exchange, and launching the Cboe Theoretical Options Pricing Service. Growing by accessing untapped addressable markets. We are expanding and diversifying our revenue opportunity set through organic investment and merger and acquisition activity. In 2023, we delivered on this initiative by expanding into pan-European single stock options and completing phase 1 of our initiative to offer options on leading European companies, adding extended trading hours for corporate bond index futures, developing plans to introduce a clearing service for securities financing transactions through Cboe Clear Europe, announcing and then launching in January 2024 margined futures on Bitcoin and Ether, Cboe FX successfully trading U.S. Treasury products, and launching Cboe Global Listings, the first-of-its-kind, global listing network facilitating worldwide access to capital and secondary liquidity for companies and ETFs, and successfully attracting its first intralisted corporate issuer to the global platform. Proprietary Products In addition to operating cash and spot markets and derivative markets, and providing data and access solutions, we are a leader in the volatility space with the proprietary products we offer for trading. These proprietary products are built through Cboe Labs, a dedicated team centered on the creation, development, and implementation of new ideas and our strategic relationships and license agreements with index providers, which are both described below in further detail. Our most frequently traded proprietary products include SPX options and VIX options and futures. SPX Options The S P 500 Index is an index comprised of 500 large-cap U.S. listed companies. It is one of the most commonly followed indices and is considered a bellwether for the U.S. economy. The SPX options we offer on the S P 500 Index are exclusive to Cboe and contribute substantially to our volumes and transaction fees. Because of the S P 500 Index s status as a bellwether, SPX options are used in many different trading strategies by customers with different goals, including pension funds hedging their equity exposure by buying put options, asset managers seeking enhanced returns by selling covered call options and hedge funds using risk-managed strategies to capture so-called risk premia embedded in option prices. We also offer zero days to expiry (0-DTE) products, Mini- and Nano-SPX options, FLEX- and FLEX micro-SPX options, and SPX Weeklys options, which have settlements on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and on the last trading day of each month and 24x5 trading in SPX options. We believe these additional expirations provide customers with more precision when hedging overall portfolio risk. Volatility Trading Cboe pioneered the trading of exchange-traded volatility products with its introduction of VIX futures in 2004 and VIX options in 2006. The VIX Index (as defined below), although not directly tradable, is based on the mid-point of real-time 11 Table of Contents quotes of SPX options and is designed to reflect investors consensus view of future 30-day expected stock market volatility. The VIX Index methodology provides the basis for the creation of VIX options and futures. The final settlement value of VIX options and futures is determined on their expiration date through a Special Opening Quotation ( SOQ ) of the VIX Index. The SOQ calculation uses opening trade prices of selected options; unless there is no opening price, in which case the opening price used in the SOQ calculation is the midpoint of the highest bid and lowest offer at the time of the opening. Since we started offering these products, we have seen trading from a number of different customer segments utilizing a number of different trading strategies, including hedging extreme stock market declines, also known as tail risk hedging, and risk-managed strategies that seek to capture the relative price changes of expected volatility at different ti