Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 43 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 48 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 79 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 82 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 126 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 126 Item 9B. Other Information 126 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 127 Item 11. Executive Compensation 127 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 127 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 127 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 127 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 128 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 134 2 Table of Contents CERTAIN DEFINED TERMS Throughout this document, unless otherwise specified or the context so requires: Cboe, we, us, our or the Company refers to Cboe Global Markets, Inc. and its subsidiaries. ADV means average daily volume. ADNV means average daily notional value. AFM refers to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets. Bats Global Markets and Bats refer to our wholly-owned subsidiary Bats Global Markets, Inc., now known as Cboe Bats, LLC, and its subsidiaries. BYX refers to Cboe BYX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. BZX refers to Cboe BZX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. C2 refers to Cboe C2 Exchange, Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Chi-X Europe refers to Cboe Chi-X Europe Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Europe Equities refers to the combined businesses of Cboe Europe and Cboe NL. Cboe Europe refers to Cboe Europe Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the U.K. operator of our Multilateral Trading Facility ( MTF ), our Regulated Market ( RM ), and our Approved Publication Arrangement ( APA ) under its Recognized Investment Exchange ( RIE ) status. Cboe FX refers to Cboe FX Markets, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe NL refers to Cboe Europe B.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the Netherlands operator of our MTF, RM, and APA. Cboe Options refers to Cboe Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe SEF refers to Cboe SEF, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Swiss refers to Cboe Switzerland GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Trading refers to Cboe Trading, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., operated in the United States. CFE refers to Cboe Futures Exchange, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. CFTC refers to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. EDGA refers to Cboe EDGA Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. EDGX refers to Cboe EDGX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. ESMA refers to the European Securities and Markets Authority. Exchanges refers to Cboe Options, C2, BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA. FASB refers to the Financial Accounting Standards Board. FCA refers to the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority. FINRA refers to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. GAAP refers to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. Merger refers to our acquisition of Bats Global Markets, completed on February 28, 2017. OCC refers to The Options Clearing Corporation. OPRA refers to Options Price Reporting Authority, LLC. SEC refers to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. SPX refers to our S P 500 Index exchange-traded options products. TPH refers to either a Trading Permit Holder or a Trading Privilege Holder. VIX refers to our Cboe Volatility Index exchange-traded options and futures products. 3 Table of Contents TRADEMARK AND OTHER INFORMATION Cboe , Bats , BYX , BZX , Cboe Options Institute , Cboe Vest , Cboe Volatility Index , CFE , EDGA , EDGX , Hybrid , LiveVol , Silexx and VIX are registered trademarks, and Cboe Global Markets SM , Cboe Futures Exchange SM , C2 SM , and Silexx SM are service marks of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Standard Poor s , S P , S P 100 , S P 500 and SPX are registered trademarks of Standard Poor s Financial Services LLC and have been licensed for use by Cboe Exchange, Inc. Dow Jones , Dow Jones Industrial Average , DJIA and Dow Jones Indices are registered trademarks or service marks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings, LLC, used under license. Russell and the Russell index names are registered trademarks of Frank Russell Company, used under license. FTSE and the FTSE indices are trademarks and service marks of FTSE International Limited, used under license. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. MSCI and the MSCI index names are service marks of MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ) or its affiliates and have been licensed for use by us. Any derivative indices and any financial products based on the derivative indices ( MCSI-Based Products ) are not sponsored, guaranteed or endorsed by MSCI, its affiliates or any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling such MSCI index. Neither MSCI, its affiliates nor any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling any MSCI index makes any representations regarding the advisability of investing in such MSCI-Based Products; makes any warranty, express or implied; or bears any liability as to the results to be obtained by any person or any entity from the use of any such MSCI index or any data included therein. No purchaser, seller or holder of any MSCI-Based Product, or any other person or entity, should use or refer to any MSCI trade name, trademark or service mark to sponsor, endorse, market or promote any security without first contacting MSCI to determine whether MSCI s permission is required. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes market share and industry data that we obtained from industry publications and surveys, reports of governmental agencies and internal company surveys. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information they contain has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but we cannot assure you that this information is accurate or complete. We have not independently verified any of the data from third-party sources nor have we ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein. Statements as to our market position are based on the most currently available market data. While we are not aware of any misstatements regarding industry data presented herein, our estimates involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors. We refer you to the Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC. 4 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as may, might, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue, and the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. All statements that reflect our expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements in Business and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in this Annual Report. While we believe we have identified material risks, these risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: the loss of our right to exclusively list and trade certain index options and futures products; economic, political and market conditions; compliance with legal and regulatory obligations; price competition and consolidation in our industry; decreases in trading volumes, market data fees or a shift in the mix of products traded on our exchanges; legislative or regulatory changes; our ability to protect our systems and communication networks from security risks, cybersecurity risks, insider threats and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information; increasing competition by foreign and domestic entities; our dependence on and exposure to risk from third parties; fluctuations to currency exchange rates; our index providers ability to maintain the quality and integrity of their indices and to perform under our agreements; our ability to operate our business without violating the intellectual property rights of others and the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights; our ability to attract and retain skilled management and other personnel; our ability to accommodate trading volume and transaction traffic, including significant increases, without failure or degradation of performance of our systems; misconduct by those who use our markets or our products; challenges to our use of open source software code; our ability to meet our compliance obligations, including managing potential conflicts between our regulatory responsibilities and our for-profit status; damage to our reputation; the ability of our compliance and risk management methods to effectively monitor and manage our risks; our ability to manage our growth and strategic acquisitions or alliances effectively; restrictions imposed by our debt obligations; our ability to maintain an investment grade credit rating; impairment of our goodwill, long-lived assets, investments or intangible assets; and the accuracy of our estimates and expectations. 5 Table of Contents For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that might affect our performance, see Part I, Item 1A of this Report. We do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this filing. 6 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business The following description of the business should be read in conjunction with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. This description contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements due to the factors set forth in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Cboe Global Markets, Inc. is one of the world s largest exchange holding companies, offering cutting-edge trading and investment solutions to investors around the world. The Company is committed to defining markets to benefit its participants and drive the global marketplace forward through product innovation, leading edge technology and seamless trading solutions. Cboe offers trading across a diverse range of products in multiple asset classes and geographies, including options, futures, U.S. and European equities, exchange-traded products ( ETPs ), global foreign exchange ( FX ), and multi-asset volatility products based on the VIX Index, recognized as the world s premier gauge of U.S. equity market volatility. Cboe s subsidiaries include the largest options exchange and the third largest stock exchange operator in the U.S. In addition, the Company operates one of the largest equities stock exchanges by value traded in Europe and is a leading market globally for ETP listings and trading. The Company reports the results of its operations in five business segments: Options, U.S. Equities, Futures, European Equities, and Global FX. Our operating revenues consist primarily of transaction fees, access and capacity fees, market data fees and regulatory fines and fees. We also generate revenue from both the calculation and dissemination of index values and from the licensing of our proprietary products. Transaction fee revenues are generated on the contracts or shares traded on our exchanges. In 2019, approximately 62.9% of our net revenues were transaction fee revenues. Our Business Originally known as the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Cboe Options was founded in 1973 as a non-stock corporation owned by its members. Cboe Options was the first organized marketplace for the trading of standardized, exchange-traded options on equity securities. In 2004, CFE began operations as a futures exchange. Cboe Global Markets was incorporated in the State of Delaware on August 15, 2006. In June 2010, Cboe Options demutualized, Cboe Options and CFE became wholly-owned subsidiaries of Cboe Global Markets , and Cboe Global Markets completed its initial public offering. In October 2010, C2, the Company s second options exchange, initiated operations. On February 28, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of Bats, which significantly expanded the Company s product lines across asset classes, broadened its geographic reach with pan-European equities, added global FX market, diversified its business mix with significant non-transactional revenue streams and increased the Company s options exchanges from two to four with the addition of BZX and EDGX exchanges. Following the acquisition, on October 16, 2017, we changed our legal name from CBOE Holdings, Inc. to Cboe Global Markets, Inc. On September 17, 2018, we voluntarily delisted our common stock from Nasdaq Global Select Market and transferred the listing to Cboe BZX Exchange. Cboe Global Markets reports on the following five business segments: Options. Our options exchange business lists for trading (i) options on market indices ( index options ), including VIX and SPX options, mostly on an exclusive basis, (ii) non-exclusive multi-listed options on the stocks of listed individual corporations ( equity options ), and (iii) non-exclusive multi-listed options on ETPs, such as exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ) and exchange-traded notes ( ETNs ). These options trade on 7 Table of Contents Cboe Options, C2, BZX, and EDGX. Cboe Options is our primary options market and offers trading in listed options through a single system, known as our Hybrid trading model, which integrates electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading on our trading floor in Chicago. C2, BZX, and EDGX are our all-electronic options exchanges, and typically operate with different market models and fee structures than Cboe Options. The Options segment also includes applicable market data revenue generated from the U.S. tape plan, the sale of proprietary market data, index licensing, and access and capacity services. U.S. Equities. The U.S. Equities segment includes listed equities and ETP transaction services that occur on BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA. This segment also includes ETP listings on BZX, the Cboe Global Markets, Inc. common stock listing, applicable market data revenue generated from the U.S. tape plans, the sale of proprietary market data, routing services, access and capacity services and advertising activity from ETF.com. Futures. The Futures segment includes the business of our futures exchange, CFE, which lists VIX futures, futures on corporate bond indices, futures on AMERIBOR, and other futures products. It also includes market data revenue generated from the sale of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. European Equities. The European Equities segment covers securities from 18 European markets including the U.K. and includes transaction services on listed equities, ETPs, exchange-traded commodities, and international depository receipts that occur on MTFs operated by Cboe Europe Equities. It also includes the listings business where ETPs can be listed on its RMs. Cboe Europe Equities operates lit and dark pools, a periodic auctions book, and a Large-in-Scale ( LIS ) trading negotiation facility. Cboe NL, launched in October 2019, operates similar business functionality to that which is offered by Cboe Europe, other than LIS, and provides for trading only in European Economic Area symbols. Cboe Europe Equities also includes market data revenue generated from the sale of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. Global FX. The Global FX segment includes institutional FX services on the Cboe FX platform, which offers an independent, transparent electronic marketplace structure where institutional buyers and sellers worldwide can trade spot FX directly, either anonymously or on a disclosed basis with each other. The Global FX segment also includes non-deliverable forward FX transactions offered for execution on Cboe SEF, as well as revenue generated from the sale of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 17 ( Segment Reporting ) to the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of revenues, and operating income (loss) by business segment. Certain areas within our segments operate globally. For information regarding risks related to our international operations see Risk Factors. The following chart illustrates volume or notional value for Options (Cboe Options, C2 Options, BZX Options, and EDGX Options); Futures (CFE); U.S. Equities (BZX Equities, BYX Equities, EDGA Equities, and EDGX Equities); European Equities; and Global FX (Cboe FX) for the periods indicated (which includes information prior to the acquisition of Bats): Annual Volumes 2019 2018 2017 Options total contracts ADV (in millions) 7.3 7.9 6.9 U.S. Equities total touched shares ADV (in billions) 1.2 1.4 1.3 Futures ADV (in thousands) 249.0 300.0 294.8 European Equities matched and touched ADNV ( in billions) 7.7 10.4 9.4 Global FX ADNV ($ in billions) 32.3 37.4 29.5 ADV= average daily volume ADNV= average daily notional value 8 Table of Contents Competitive Strengths We have established ourselves as a global leader and innovator in our industry and believe we are well positioned to further enhance our leadership position through several key competitive strengths: Innovative Products and Services. We are structured and committed to deliver a differentiated experience to our customers through our offering of innovative proprietary products, order types, risk management tools and other products and services. We have also worked closely and collaboratively with market participants to introduce new products and services to meet the evolving needs of the industry, and we plan to continue these efforts. Products we have developed include index options, equity options, VIX options and futures, and options and futures on other volatility indices, short duration options, including Weeklys, FLexible EXchange Options ( FLEX options ) and options strategy benchmark indices. We have also developed products that enable our customers to monitor their order handling on our markets in real-time, such as our user dashboard and latency reports. We were the first U.S. options exchange to trade options during non-U.S. trading hours, offering extended trading hours in our exclusive proprietary products. We also connect with a growing customer base through trading and educational resources, including resources available through our website, the world-renowned Cboe Options Institute, industry trade shows, industry forums and a comprehensive marketing and communications program. Leading Proprietary Technology . Our leading proprietary technology was designed in-house to optimize reliability, speed, scalability and versatility. CFE, C2, and Cboe Options were migrated to our current trading platform on February 25, 2018, May 14, 2018, and October 7, 2019, respectively. As a result, we now offer customers a single uniform trading experience across our equities, options, and futures markets. Our platform has demonstrated very low operational downtime and latency, which we believe gives our customers an additional incentive to use our platform to mitigate trade execution risk, especially in times of extreme market volatility. Leading Market Position, Reputation and Brand. We are a leading global operator of securities exchanges and other electronic markets and have a strong market share in the markets we serve. Cboe Options, the largest U.S. options exchange, based on both contract volume and notional value, and one of the largest options exchanges in the world, is an options market leader. As the creator of listed options and other significant products in the listed options industry, including the VIX Index and VIX options and futures, Cboe is a leading brand name in the options and volatility space. In U.S. listed equities, we are the third largest exchange operator, with a market share of 16.3% of the overall U.S. equities market for the year ended December 31, 2019. In European-listed equities, we are one of the largest pan-European exchange operators based on executed notional value of pan-European equities, with a market share of 20.2% of European trading in the securities available for trading on Cboe Europe Equities for the year ended December 31, 2019. In addition, we have a substantial presence in the spot FX markets, with a 15.2% market share of the publicly reported institutional spot FX markets for the year ended December 31, 2019. Strategic Relationships and Partnerships. We have entered into licensing agreements with index providers which typically grant us the rights to create volatility indices, offer options and futures products on their indices and use the market data from the trading of options on various products to calculate a number of proprietary indices. We have also formed partnerships with key providers to develop new products and services. See Proprietary Products-Strategic Relationships. Growth Strategy Our mission is to lead the industry in defining the markets of today and tomorrow through: (1) relentless innovation to expand our diverse offering for investors around the world, (2) leading edge technology to connect customers to global markets, and (3) seamless solutions to enhance the customer experience through insights, education, data, 9 Table of Contents analytics and more. We expect to further grow our business and increase our revenues and profitability by following our mission and pursuing the following growth strategies: Grow Existing Proprietary Products. We plan to continue our efforts to grow the use of our proprietary products, including SPX options and VIX options and futures, by expanding the customer base and increasing existing customers product usage. In 2019, we redeployed our customer outreach efforts to further penetrate global market participants by realigning our sales team with specialists targeting asset managers, hedge funds, U.S. insurance companies and pension funds. We also continue to take steps to enhance the risk management tools and information available to our customers, aimed at arming them with information to make more informed trading decisions and gain capital efficiency. Furthermore, we continue to penetrate new markets. In 2019, Cboe Options and CFE were permitted in Switzerland and Spain to market our products to existing or potential customers in those jurisdictions, as well as permit investors in those jurisdictions to directly access Cboe Options and CFE to trade our products. We also plan to continue to enrich and expand our educational content to educate market participants, which is integral to growing our proprietary products. Develop Innovative Products and Services. We continue to explore the development of index and other high margin derivative products to trade on our exchanges. We intend to license and create proprietary intellectual property to develop proprietary products that meet the needs of the derivatives industry, both through strategic relationships and internal development, while continuing to diversify our product line across asset classes. We believe that additional proprietary market data, analytics, and access and capacity revenues can be generated while continuing to offer competitive pricing across all of our segments. In 2019, we continued to leverage relationships to extend our product offering by launching or extending existing new products or services, such as Monday expiring options on XSP, our mini-SPX option contract, SPX option expirations related to the 2020 presidential election, development of a future on AMERIBOR, a Cboe Closing Cross to provide post-close trading services at Cboe Europe and developing new benchmarks on MSCI Emerging Markets and EAFE indices. Offer Compelling Models. We have designed our market and pricing models to provide benefits to market participants that concentrate their overall trading activity, which we believe encourages market participants to increase their business with us. In our proprietary products, we offer discounts and incentives to certain participants based on relative volume and the use of selected strategies. In multi-listed products and equities trading, we offer incentive programs to attract order flow to help our market participants manage both the fixed and transaction-based costs of trading. We regularly review the market and pricing models for all of our exchanges to provide an industry-leading economic offering. In 2019, we introduced a small retail broker distribution program for U.S. equities market data at discounted rates, order book priority for retail investors on EDGX, and a new lead market maker incentive program for the Cboe Listed ETP Marketplace. Continue to Enhance Our Leading Edge Technology. We recognize that the opportunity to participate in the growth of the equities and derivatives market will be driven in great part by the trading functionality and technology capabilities that an exchange offers to market participants. We intend to use our strong in-house development capabilities and continued investment to further enhance and develop the functionality and capacity of our trading systems. With the completion of the multi-exchange technology migration, we intend to redirect our technology efforts to building new value added technologies, such as the development of a state-of-the-art research and data platform. See Technology. Evaluate Strategic Opportunities. We continually evaluate strategic opportunities that we believe could enhance stockholder value. We specifically look for strategic opportunities beyond our current businesses that can capitalize on our core competencies and diversify our sources of revenue. We continue to form new alliances with various partners that leverage our strengths and enable us to diversify our product and business lines across new regions and asset classes. 10 Table of Contents Proprietary Products In addition to our exchanges providing a marketplace and listing venue for the trading of securities and derivatives we also calculate proprietary indices that are used as the basis for proprietary products or licensed for use by third parties. These include: volatility index products based on various broad-based market indices, such as the S P 500, the S P 100, and the Russell 2000, correlation or volatility indices based on ETFs and individual stocks, such as the Cboe Crude Oil ETF Volatility Index, the Cboe Gold ETF Volatility Index, the Cboe Equity VIX on Apple, and the Cboe Equity VIX on Amazon, interest rate volatility indices, such as the Cboe/CBOT 10-year U.S. Treasury Note Volatility Index and the Cboe Interest Rate Swap Volatility Index and options strategy benchmarks, such as the Cboe BuyWrite, PutWrite and Collar indices based on the S P 500 and Russell 2000, BuyWrite and PutWrite indices on MSCI EAFE, MSCI Emerging Markets and BuyWrite indices based on other broad-based market indices. Our most frequently traded products are SPX options and VIX options and futures. In addition to any transaction fee revenue generated on products created based on these indices, we have granted licenses for third parties to use and sublicense some of these proprietary indices to create third-party indices and products. Accordingly, we generate revenue from proprietary indices by distributing them for reference purposes, using th