Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 52 Item 2. Properties 53 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 54 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 55 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 55 Item 6. Selected Financial Data N/A Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 58 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 87 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 91 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 139 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 139 Item 9B. Other Information 139 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 139 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 140 Item 11. Executive Compensation 140 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 140 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 140 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 140 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 141 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 146 2 Table of Contents CERTAIN DEFINED TERMS Throughout this document, unless otherwise specified or the context so requires: Cboe, we, us, our or the Company refers to Cboe Global Markets, Inc. and its subsidiaries. ADV means average daily volume. ADNV means average daily notional value. AFM refers to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets. ATS refers to an alternative trading system. Bats Global Markets and Bats refer to our wholly-owned subsidiary Bats Global Markets, Inc., now known as Cboe Bats, LLC, and its subsidiaries. BIDS Trading refers to BIDS Trading, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. The ATS operated by BIDS Trading is not a registered national securities exchange or a facility thereof. BYX refers to Cboe BYX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. BZX refers to Cboe BZX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. C2 refers to Cboe C2 Exchange, Inc. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Australia refers to Cboe Australia Pty Ltd. (formerly known as Chi-X Australia Pty. Ltd.), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Chi-X Europe refers to Cboe Chi-X Europe Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Europe Equities and Derivatives refers to the combined businesses of Cboe Europe and Cboe NL. Cboe Europe refers to Cboe Europe Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the UK operator of our Multilateral Trading Facility ( MTF ), our Regulated Market ( RM ), and our Approved Publication Arrangement ( APA ) under its Recognized Investment Exchange ( RIE ) status. Cboe FX refers to Cboe FX Markets, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Japan refers to Cboe Japan Ltd. (formerly known as Chi-X Japan Ltd.), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe NL refers to Cboe Europe BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the Netherlands operator of our MTF, RM, and APA. Cboe Options refers to Cboe Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe SEF refers to Cboe SEF, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Swiss refers to Cboe Switzerland GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Cboe Trading refers to Cboe Trading, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., operated in the United States. Chi-X Asia Pacific refers to Chi-X Asia Pacific Holdings, Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. CFE refers to Cboe Futures Exchange, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. CFTC refers to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. EDGA refers to Cboe EDGA Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. EDGX refers to Cboe EDGX Exchange, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. ErisX refers to Eris Digital Holdings, LLC. ESMA refers to the European Securities and Markets Authority. EuroCCP refers to European Central Counterparty N.V., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. Exchanges refers to Cboe Options, C2, BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA. FASB refers to the Financial Accounting Standards Board. FCA refers to the UK Financial Conduct Authority. FINRA refers to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. GAAP refers to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. IIROC refers to the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada. MATCHNow refers to TriAct Canada Marketplace LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cboe Global Markets, Inc., the operator of our Canadian ATS called MATCHNow. Merger refers to our acquisition of Bats Global Markets, completed on February 28, 2017. NEO refers to Aequitas Innovations, Inc. OCC refers to The Options Clearing Corporation. OPRA refers to Options Price Reporting Authority, LLC. 3 Table of Contents SEC refers to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. SPX refers to our S P 500 Index exchange-traded options products. TPH refers to either a Trading Permit Holder or a Trading Privilege Holder. VIX refers to our Cboe Volatility Index exchange traded options and futures products. 4 Table of Contents TRADEMARK AND OTHER INFORMATION Cboe , Cboe Global Markets , Bats , BIDS Trading , BYX , BZX , Cboe Volatility Index , CFE , EDGA , EDGX , EuroCCP , Hybrid , LiveVol , MATCHNow , Options Institute , Silexx , VIX , and XSP are registered trademarks, and Cboe Futures Exchange SM , C2 SM , f(t)options SM , Hanweck SM , NANO SM , and Trade Alert SM are service marks of Cboe Global Markets, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Standard Poor s , S P , S P 100 , S P 500 and SPX are registered trademarks of Standard Poor s Financial Services LLC and have been licensed for use by Cboe Exchange, Inc. Dow Jones , Dow Jones Industrial Average , DJIA and Dow Jones Indices are registered trademarks or service marks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings, LLC, used under license. Russell and the Russell index names are registered trademarks of Frank Russell Company, used under license. FTSE and the FTSE indices are trademarks and service marks of FTSE International Limited, used under license. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. MSCI and the MSCI index names are service marks of MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ) or its affiliates and have been licensed for use by us. Any derivative indices and any financial products based on the derivative indices ( MCSI-Based Products ) are not sponsored, guaranteed or endorsed by MSCI, its affiliates or any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling such MSCI index. Neither MSCI, its affiliates nor any other party involved in, or related to, making or compiling any MSCI index makes any representations regarding the advisability of investing in such MSCI-Based Products; makes any warranty, express or implied; or bears any liability as to the results to be obtained by any person or any entity from the use of any such MSCI index or any data included therein. No purchaser, seller or holder of any MSCI-Based Product, or any other person or entity, should use or refer to any MSCI trade name, trademark or service mark to sponsor, endorse, market or promote any security without first contacting MSCI to determine whether MSCI s permission is required. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes market share and industry data that we obtained from industry publications and surveys, reports of governmental agencies and internal company surveys. Industry publications and surveys generally state that the information they contain has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but we cannot assure you that this information is accurate or complete. We have not independently verified any of the data from third-party sources nor have we ascertained the underlying economic assumptions relied upon therein. Statements as to our market position are based on the most currently available market data. While we are not aware of any misstatements regarding industry data presented herein, our estimates involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors. We refer you to the Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC. 5 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as may, might, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue, and the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. All statements that reflect our expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements in Business and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in this Annual Report. While we believe we have identified material risks, these risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: the loss of our right to exclusively list and trade certain index options and futures products; economic, political and market conditions; compliance with legal and regulatory obligations; price competition and consolidation in our industry; decreases in trading or clearing volumes, market data fees or a shift in the mix of products traded on our exchanges; legislative or regulatory changes or changes in tax regimes; our ability to protect our systems and communication networks from security risks, cybersecurity risks, insider threats and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information; our ability to attract and retain skilled management and other personnel; increasing competition by foreign and domestic entities; our dependence on and exposure to risk from third parties; fluctuations to currency exchange rates; factors that impact the quality and integrity of our indices; the impact of the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic, including changes to trading behavior broadly in the market; our ability to operate our business without violating the intellectual property rights of others and the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights; our ability to minimize the risks, including our credit and default risks, associated with operating a European clearinghouse; our ability to accommodate trading and clearing volume and transaction traffic, including significant increases, without failure or degradation of performance of our systems; misconduct by those who use our markets or our products or for whom we clear transactions; challenges to our use of open source software code; our ability to meet our compliance obligations, including managing potential conflicts between our regulatory responsibilities and our for-profit status; our ability to maintain BIDS Trading as an independently managed and operated trading venue, separate from and not integrated with our registered national securities exchanges; damage to our reputation; the ability of our compliance and risk management methods to effectively monitor and manage our risks; our ability to manage our growth and strategic acquisitions or alliances effectively; restrictions imposed by our debt obligations and our ability to make payments on or refinance our debt obligations; our ability to maintain an investment grade credit rating; 6 Table of Contents impairment of our goodwill, long-lived assets, investments or intangible assets; the accuracy of our estimates and expectations; litigation risks and other liabilities; and if the acquisition of ErisX is consummated, operating a digital asset business. For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that might affect our performance, see Part I, Item 1A of this Report. We do not undertake, and expressly disclaim, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this filing. 7 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business The following description of the business should be read in conjunction with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. This description contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements due to the factors set forth in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Cboe Global Markets, Inc., a leading provider of market infrastructure and tradable products, delivers cutting-edge trading, clearing and investment solutions to market participants around the world. The Company is committed to operating a trusted, inclusive global marketplace, and to providing leading products, technology and data solutions that enable participants to define a sustainable financial future. Cboe provides trading solutions and products in multiple asset classes, including equities, derivatives and FX, across North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Cboe s subsidiaries include the largest options exchange and the third largest stock exchange operator in the U.S. In addition, the Company operates one of the largest stock exchanges by value traded in Europe, and owns EuroCCP, a leading pan-European equities and derivatives clearinghouse, BIDS Trading, a leading block-trading ATS by volume in the U.S., MATCHNow, a leading equities ATS in Canada, Cboe Australia, an operator of trading venues in Australia, and Cboe Japan, an operator of trading venues in Japan. Cboe also is a leading market globally for exchange-traded products ( ETPs ) listings and trading. The graphic below provides a brief overview of Cboe s history: 8 Table of Contents Our Business Cboe Global Markets reports on the following five business segments: Options. The Options segment includes options on market indices ( index options ), as well as on the stocks of individual corporations ( equity options ), and options on ETPs, such as exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ) and exchange-traded notes ( ETNs ), which are multi-listed options and listed on a non-exclusive basis. These options are eligible to trade on Cboe Options, C2, BZX, EDGX, and other U.S. national security exchanges. Cboe Options is the Company s primary options market and offers trading in listed options through a single system that integrates electronic trading and traditional open outcry trading on the Cboe Options trading floor in Chicago. C2 Options, BZX Options, and EDGX Options are all-electronic options exchanges, and typically operate with different market models and fee structures than Cboe Options. The Options segment also includes applicable market data revenue generated from the consolidated tape plans, the licensing of proprietary options market data, index licensing, and access and capacity services. North American Equities. The North American Equities segment includes listed U.S. equities and ETP transaction services that occur on fully electronic exchanges owned and operated by BZX, BYX, EDGX, and EDGA, equities transactions that occur on the BIDS Trading platform, and Canadian equities and other transaction services that occur on or through the MATCHNow ATS. The North American Equities segment also includes ETP listings on BZX, the Cboe Global Markets, Inc. common stock listing, applicable market data revenue generated from the consolidated tape plans, the licensing of proprietary equities market data, routing services, and access and capacity services. Europe and Asia Pacific. The Europe and Asia Pacific segment includes the pan-European listed equities and derivatives transaction services, ETPs, exchange-traded commodities, and international depository receipts that are hosted on MTFs operated by Cboe Europe Equities (Cboe Europe and Cboe NL) and Cboe Europe Derivatives ( CEDX ). It also includes the ETP listings business on RMs and clearing activities of EuroCCP, as well as the equities transaction services of Cboe Australia and Cboe Japan, each operators of trading venues in Australia and Japan. This segment was previously referred to as the European Equities segment but was updated to the Europe segment in the first quarter of 2021 as a result of the launch of Cboe Europe Derivatives, a pan-European derivatives platform, in September 2021. The segment was subsequently updated to Europe and Asia Pacific to reflect the acquisition of Chi-X Asia Pacific in July 2021. Cboe Europe operates lit and dark books, a periodic auctions book, and a Large-in-Scale ( LIS ) trading negotiation facility for UK symbols. Cboe NL, launched in October 2019 and based in Amsterdam, operates similar business functionality to that offered by Cboe Europe, and provides for trading only in European Economic Area ( EEA ) symbols. The new Cboe Europe Derivatives venue offers futures and options based on Cboe Europe equity indices. This segment also includes Cboe Europe, Cboe NL, CEDX, Cboe Australia and Cboe Japan revenue generated from the licensing of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. Futures. The Futures segment includes transaction services provided by the Company s fully electronic futures exchange, CFE, which includes offerings for trading of VIX futures and other futures products, the licensing of proprietary market data, as well as access and capacity services. Global FX. The Global FX segment includes institutional FX trading services that occur on the Cboe FX fully electronic trading platform, non-deliverable forward FX transactions ( NDFs ) offered for execution on Cboe SEF and Cboe Swiss, as well as revenue generated from the licensing of proprietary market data and from access and capacity services. See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 16 ( Segment Reporting ) in the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of revenues and certain operational and financial metrics, and operating income (or loss) by business segment. Certain activities within our segments operate globally. For information regarding risks related to our international operations see Risk Factors. 9 Table of Contents Competitive Strengths Cboe is a leading provider of market infrastructure and tradable products across cash and spot markets, derivative markets and data and access solutions. Cboe delivers cutting-edge trading, clearing and investment solutions across the globe through a comprehensive ecosystem that helps drive innovation and growth. Information is as of December 31, 2021. Key Growth Strategy Initiatives Our strategy is to build one of the world s largest global derivatives and securities networks to create value and drive growth by: Innovating to capture growing demand for trading products and data services, globally. We plan to increase access to data products and trading solutions, provide unrivaled transaction capabilities, have a global presence in high value markets, and develop indices and products to meet growing environmental, social, and governance ( ESG ) needs. In 2021, we delivered on this initiative by launching nearly 24x5 trading for VIX and SPX options, distributing real-time data via Cboe Global Cloud, launching mini-options on the Russell 2000 Index, and preparing to launch in 2022, subject to regulatory approval, Nanos by Cboe, smaller and simpler options designed for retail traders. Integrating across ecosystems to increase efficiency and better serve customers. We aim to seamlessly integrate across ecosystems to increase operating efficiency and better serve our customers. We leverage industry-leading technology, apply a non-siloed approach for organic and inorganic initiatives and generate strong free cash flow as we improve operating efficiency. In 2021, we delivered on this initiative by integrating EuroCCP and its technology to launch pan-European derivatives in 2021, integrating our acquisition of BIDS Trading and beginning the integration of Chi-X Asia Pacific. Growing by accessing untapped addressable markets. We are expanding and diversifying our revenue opportunity set through both organic investment and merger and acquisition activity. In 2021, we delivered on this initiative by launching Pan-European Derivatives and expanding into new key markets in the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, in 2022, we are planning to further expand into Canada by acquiring the NEO exchange, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, and into the digital asset space by acquiring ErisX, an operator of a U.S.-based digital asset spot market, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. 10 Table of Contents Proprietary Products In addition to providing cash and spot markets, derivative markets, and data and access solutions, we also offer for trading proprietary products and are a leader in the volatility space with our proprietary products. These proprietary products are built both through our in-house research and development staff of the Data and Access Solutions business and our strategic relationships and license agreements with index providers, which are both described below in further detail. Our most frequently traded proprietary products include SPX options and VIX options and futures. SPX Options The S P 500 Index is an index comprised of 500 large-cap U.S. listed companies. It is one of the most commonly followed indices and is considered a bellwether for the U.S. economy. The SPX options we offer on the S P 500 Index are exclusive to Cboe and contribute substantially to our volumes and transaction fees. Because of the S P 500 Index s status as a bellwether, SPX options are used in many different trading strategies by customers with different goals, including pension funds hedging their equity exposure by buying put options, asset managers seeking enhanced returns by selling covered call options and hedge funds using risk-managed strategies to capture so-called risk premia embedded in option prices. We also offer SPX Weeklys options, which have settlements on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and on the last trading day of each month and nearly 24x5 trading in SPX options. We believe these additional expirations provide customers with more precision when hedging overall portfolio risk. Volatility Trading Cboe pioneered the trading of exchange-traded volatility products with its introduction of VIX futures in 2004 and VIX options in 2006. The VIX Index (as defined below), although not directly tradable, is based on the mid-point of real-time quotes of SPX options and is designed to reflect investors consensus view of future 30-day expected stock market volatility. The VIX methodology provides the basis for the creation of VIX options and futures. The final settlement value of VIX derivatives is determined on their expiration date through a Special Opening Quotation ( SOQ ) of the VIX Index. The SOQ calculation uses opening trade prices of selected options; unless there is no opening price, in which case the opening price used in the SOQ calculation is the midpoint of the highest bid and lowest offer at the time of the opening. Since we started offering these products, we have seen trading from a number of different customer segments utilizing a number of different trading strategies, including hedging extreme stock market declines, also known as tail risk hedging, and risk-managed strategies that seek to capture the relative price changes of expected volatility at different times in the future. We also offer VIX Weeklys options and futures, mini VIX futures, and nearly 24x5 trading in VIX options and futures to provide investors with additional tools to trade volatility. Proprietary Indices We also calculate and disseminate proprietary indices that are licensed for use by third parties or are used as the basis for other proprietary products. These proprietary indices are built both through our in-house research and development staff of the Data and Access Solutions business and our strategic relationships and license agreements with index providers, which are both described below in further detail. Our proprietary indices include: volatility indices based on broad-based market indices, such as the S P 500 and the Russell 2000, volatility indices based on ETFs, and options strategy benchmark indices, such as the Cboe BuyWrite, PutWrite and Collar indices based on the S P 500 and Russell 2000, BuyWrite and PutWrite indices based on MSCI EAFE and MSCI Emerging Markets, and BuyWrite indices based on other broad-based market indices. In addition to any transaction fee revenue generated on products created based on these indices, we have granted licenses for third parties to use and sublicense some of these proprietary indices to create third-party indices and products. Accordingly, we generate revenue from proprietary indices by distributing them for reference purposes, using them as the basis for proprietary products and licensing them for use for third-party indices and products. 11 Table of Contents Strategic Relationships The Company has long-term business relationships with several providers of market indices. We license their indices, including on an exclusive basis, as the foundation for indices, index options and other products. The Company also acquires interests in and agrees to work jointly with key providers to develop new products and services that are expected to capitalize on our core competencies and diversify our sources of revenue. Of particular note are the following: S P. We have the exclusive right to offer exchange-listed options contracts in the United States on the S P 500 Index, the S P 100 Index, the S P 500 ESG Index, and the S P Select Sector Indices as a result of a licensing arrangement with S P Dow Jones Indices, LLC ( S P ). Our license from S P is through December 31, 2033, with an exclusive license to trade options on the S P 500 Index through December 31, 2032. We use the market data from the trading of options on the S P 500 Index and S P 100 Index for the creation of Cboe volatility indices, such as the Cboe Volatility Index ( VIX Index ), and for the creation of tradable products on those volatility indices. FTSE Russell. Under our license agreement with the London Stock Exchange Group s ( LSEG ) leading global index franchises, Frank Russell Company and FTSE International Limited (together FTSE Russell ), we have the exclusive right in the United States to offer listed options on more than two dozen FTSE Russell indices, which represent a diverse group of domestic and global equities with international appeal. Our exclusive license from FTSE Russell is through 2030. We offer options on the Russell 2000, Russell 1000, Russell 1000 Value and Russell 1000 Growth Indices and mini-options on the Russell 2000 Index. MSCI . We have an exclusive license from MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ) until April 1, 2031 to offer U.S.-listed options on ten of MSCI s indices including the MSCI EAFA and MSCI Emerging Markets indices. We use market data from the trading of these options to calculate several versions of BuyWrite and PutWrite strategy indices. IHS Markit . Under our licensing agreement with IHS Markit Ltd., we have the worldwide exclusive license through August 2023 to offer options and futures on indices benchmarked to a diverse array of U.S. corporate bonds. We currently offer futures on high yield and investment grade corporate bond indices. Dow Jones. We have the exclusive right during standard U.S. trading hours to offer listed options contracts on the Dow Jones Industrial Average ( DJIA ) and Dow 10 Index, and non-exclusive rights to offer listed options on several other Dow Jones indices including the Dow Jones Utilities Average and Dow Jones Transportation Average. This licensing arrangement with DJI Opco, LLC extends through December 31, 2033. We use market data from the trading of options on these indices to create Cboe volatility indices, variance indicators and BuyWrite indices, and to trade options and other products on these indices. Data and Access Solutions The Data and Access Solutions business provides an offering of market data and information solutions products acro