Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 118 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 118 Item 9B. Other Information 120 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 121 Item 11. Executive Compensation 121 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 121 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 121 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 121 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 121 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 121 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 122 SIGNATURES 128 PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview CBRE Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation. References to CBRE, the company, we, us and our refer to CBRE Group, Inc. and include all of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise. We are the world s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm, based on 2019 revenue, with leading global market positions in our leasing, property sales, occupier outsourcing and valuation businesses. As of December 31, 2019, we operated in more than 530 offices worldwide and have more than 100,000 employees, excluding independent affiliates. We serve clients in more than 100 countries. Our business is focused on providing services to real estate occupiers and investors. For occupiers, we provide facilities management, project management, transaction (both property sales and leasing) and consulting services, among others. For investors, we provide capital markets (property sales, mortgage origination, sales and servicing), leasing, investment management, property management, valuation and development services, among others. We provide services under the following brand names: CBRE (real estate advisory and outsourcing services) CBRE Global Investors (investment management) Trammell Crow Company (U.S. development) Telford Homes (U.K. development) and Hana (flexible-space solutions). Our revenue mix has shifted in recent years toward more contractual revenue as occupiers and investors increasingly prefer to purchase integrated, account-based services from firms that meet the full spectrum of their needs nationally and globally. We believe we are well-positioned to capture a substantial share of this growing market opportunity. We generate revenue from both management fees (large multi-year portfolio and per-project contracts) and commissions on transactions. Our contractual, fee-for-services businesses generally involve occupier outsourcing (including facilities and project management), property management, investment management, appraisal/valuation and loan servicing. In addition, our leasing services business line is largely recurring in nature over time. In 2019, we generated revenue from a highly diversified base of clients, including more than 90 of the Fortune 100 companies. We have been an S P 500 company since 2006 and in 2019 we were ranked #146 on the Fortune 500. We have been voted the most recognized commercial real estate brand in the Lipsey Company survey for 19 years in a row (including 2020). We have also been rated a World s Most Ethical Company by the Ethisphere Institute for seven consecutive years (including 2020), and are included in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index and the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index. CBRE History We will mark our 114th year of continuous operations in 2020, tracing our origins to a company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of the 1906 earthquake. Since then, we have grown into the largest global commercial real estate services and investment firm (in terms of 2019 revenue) through organic growth and strategic acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Telford Homes Plc, which closed in October 2019. Our Business Segments and Primary Services CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CBRE Group, Inc. does not have any independent operations or employees. CBRE Services, Inc., our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term indebtedness. We report our operations through the following business segments: (1) Advisory Services, (2) Global Workplace Solutions and (3) Real Estate Investments. 1 Advisory Services Our Advisory Services segment provides a comprehensive range of services globally, including property leasing, capital markets (property sales and mortgage origination, sales and servicing), property management, project management services and valuation services. Most of our Advisory Services operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE, Inc. Our mortgage loan origination, sales and servicing operations, the vast majority of which are in the U.S., are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets, Inc., or CBRE Capital Markets, and its affiliates. The primary services within Advisory Services are further described below. Leasing Services We provide strategic advice and execution for owners/investors, and occupiers/tenants of real estate, primarily in connection with the leasing of office, industrial and retail space. In 2019, we negotiated leases valued at approximately $168.2 billion globally. While the majority of our leasing revenue is reported in the Advisory Services segment, we do earn leasing revenue for certain contractual occupier clients in the Global Workplace Solutions segment that arises as a direct result of a business relationship with that segment. We generate significant business from account-based occupier clients, where we are retained to negotiate leases for all or a portion of their portfolio. This results in recurring revenue over time. We believe we are the market leader for leasing services in most leading U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami/South Florida, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland and Seattle. Capital Markets We offer clients property sales and mortgage services. The tight integration of these services helps to meet marketplace demand for comprehensive capital markets solutions. During 2019, we closed approximately $322.6 billion of capital markets transactions globally, including $264.6 billion of property sales transactions and $58.0 billion of mortgage originations and loan sales. We are the leading property sales advisor globally. In the United States, we accounted for approximately 17% of investment sales transactions greater than $2.5 million across all property types in 2019, according to Real Capital Analytics. Our mortgage brokerage professionals arrange, originate and service commercial mortgage loans through relationships established with investment banking firms, national and regional banks, credit companies, insurance companies, U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises, or GSEs, and pension funds. Globally, our loan origination and sales volume in 2019 was $58.0 billion, including approximately $19.5 billion for U.S. GSEs. Most of the GSE loans were financed through revolving warehouse credit lines through a CBRE subsidiary that is dedicated exclusively for this purpose and were substantially risk mitigated by either obtaining a contractual purchase commitment from the GSE or confirming a forward-trade commitment for the issuance and purchase of a mortgage-backed security to be secured by the loan. We also oversee a loan servicing portfolio, which totaled approximately $230.1 billion globally at year-end 2019. In many countries that we operate in (including the United States), our real estate services professionals (both leasing and capital markets) are compensated primarily through commissions, which are payable upon completion of an assignment. This mitigates the effect of compensation, our largest expense, on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. We strive to retain top professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity as well as investments in support resources, including professional development and training, market research and data/information, technology, branding and marketing. 2 Property and Project Management Services We provide property management services on a contractual basis, primarily for owners of and investors in office, industrial and retail properties. These services include construction management, marketing, building engineering, accounting and financial services. As of December 31, 2019, we managed 2.6 billion square feet of properties globally for property owners/investors. We are compensated for our services through a monthly management fee earned based on either a specified percentage of the monthly rental income, rental receipts generated from the property under management or a fixed fee. We are also often reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs directly attributable to the properties under management. Our management agreements with our property management services clients may be terminated by either party with notice generally ranging between 30 to 90 days however, we have developed long-term relationships with many of these clients and the typical contract continues for multiple years. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including leasing, refinancing, disposition and appraisal. Project management services are provided to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in local markets. Revenues from project management services generally include fixed management fees, variable fees and incentive fees if certain agreed-upon performance targets are met. Revenues from project management may also include reimbursement of payroll and related costs for personnel providing the services and subcontracted vendor costs. While the majority of our project management revenue is reported in our Global Workplace Solutions segment, we also report one-off and non-contractual project management revenue in our Advisory Services segment. In 2019, project management revenue in our Advisory Services segment represented approximately 33% of total project management revenue for CBRE. Valuation Services We provide valuation services that include market-value appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses, feasibility studies as well as consulting services such as property condition reports, hotel advisory and environmental consulting. Our valuation business has developed proprietary systems for data management, analysis and valuation report preparation, which we believe provide us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our valuation business is one of the largest in the commercial real estate industry. During 2019, we completed over 259,000 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments, excluding residential valuations in Asia Pacific. Global Workplace Solutions Our Global Workplace Solutions segment provides a broad suite of integrated, contractually-based outsourcing services globally for occupiers of real estate, including facilities management, project management and transaction services (leasing and sales). We believe the outsourcing of corporate real estate services is a long-term trend in our industry, with multi-national corporations, and other large occupiers of space utilizing global, full-service real estate firms to achieve better workplaces for their people, while attempting to lower their cost of occupancy. We typically enter into multi-year, often multi-service, outsourcing contracts with services delivered via dedicated account teams and/or an on-demand basis. The key outsourcing services offered through this business segment are described below. Facilities Management Services Facilities Management involves the day-to-day management of client-occupied space for traditional office space, such as headquarter buildings, regional offices and administrative offices, as well as facilities serving specialized industries, such as data centers, life science and medical facilities, distribution warehouses, government facilities and retail stores. Contracts for facilities management services are often structured so that we are reimbursed for client-dedicated personnel costs and subcontracted vendor costs as well as associated overhead expenses plus a monthly fee, and in some cases, annual incentives tied to agreed-upon performance targets, with any penalties typically capped. In addition, we have contracts for facilities management services based on fixed-fee unit prices or guaranteed maximum prices. Fixed-fee contracts are typically structured where an agreed-upon scope of work is delivered for a fixed price while guaranteed maximum price contracts are structured with an agreed upon scope of work that will be provided to the client for a not-to-exceed price. We furnish facilities management services 3 to clients with single or multiple-location assets as well as regional, national and global portfolios. A s of December 31, 2019, we managed approximately 4.2 billion sq uare feet of facilities on behalf of occupiers. Project Management Services Project management services are typically provided on a portfolio-wide or programmatic basis. Revenues from project management services generally include fixed management fees, variable fees, lump sum and incentive fees if certain agreed-upon performance targets are met. Revenues from project management may also include reimbursement of payroll and related costs for personnel providing the services and subcontracted vendor costs. In 2019, we were responsible for implementing project management contracts valued at approximately $124.3 billion. While the majority of our project management revenue is reported in our Global Workplace Solutions segment, as previously mentioned, we also report project management revenue in our Advisory Services segment. In 2019, project management revenue in our Global Workplace Solutions segment represented approximately 67% of total project management revenue for CBRE. Transaction Services We provide strategic advice and execution for occupiers of real estate in connection with the leasing, sale or acquisition of office, industrial and retail space. Within the Global Workplace Solutions business, transaction services are performed for account-based clients, often as a key part of an integrated suite of commercial real estate services (with leasing being the most meaningful revenue stream included in our Global Workplace Solutions revenue). In 2019, leasing revenue included in our Global Workplace Solutions revenue represented approximately 3% of global leasing revenue for CBRE. Real Estate Investments Our Real Estate Investments segment is comprised of investment management services provided globally, development services in the United States and United Kingdom and a service designed to help property occupiers and owners meet the growing demand for flexible office space solutions on a global basis. Investment Management Services Investment management services are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CBRE Global Investors, LLC and its global affiliates. CBRE Global Investors provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other institutional investors seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real estate, infrastructure, master limited partnerships and other assets. We sponsor investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. In some strategies, CBRE Global Investors and its investment teams co-invest with its limited partners. CBRE Global Investors offerings are organized into four primary categories: (1) direct real estate investments through sponsored funds (2) direct real estate investments through separate accounts (3) indirect real estate and infrastructure investments through listed securities and (4) indirect real estate, infrastructure and private equity investments through multi-manager investment programs. Assets under management, or AUM, totaled $112.9 billion at December 31, 2019 as compared to $105.5 billion at December 31, 2018, an increase of $7.4 billion ($7.3 billion in local currency). Development Services Development services are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company, LLC, which provides commercial real estate development services in the United States, and Telford Homes Plc, a developer of residential multi-family properties in the United Kingdom. 4 Trammell Crow Company pursues opportunistic, risk-mitigated development and investment strategies for users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. The company is active in industrial, office and retail properties healthcare facilities of all types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers) and residential multi-family /mixed-use projects. Trammell Crow Company is compensated by its clients on a fee basis with no, or limited, ownership interest in a property in partnership with its clients through co-investment either on an individual project basis or through programs with certain strategic capital partners or for its own account with 100% ownership. Development services activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our ownership interest. Telford Homes is a developer of residential-led, mixed-use sites in locations across London, where the need for homes exceeds supply. In recent years, Telford has undertaken a strategic shift to focus on the growing build-to-rent/multifamily market and is pursuing such opportunities with a number of third-party investors. At December 31, 2019, we had $13.0 billion of development projects in process, and a development pipeline (prospective projects that we estimate have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the projected construction start date is more than one year out) totaled $5.8 billion at December 31, 2019. Flexible-Space Solutions Flexible-space solutions operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CBRE Hana, LLC, which we also refer to as Hana. Hana develops and operates integrated, scalable, flexible workspaces, which contain office suites, conference rooms and event space and communal co-working space. Hana helps institutional property owners meet the rapidly growing demand from real estate occupiers for flexible office space solutions. Competition We face competition across all our lines of business on an international, national, regional and local level. Although we are the largest commercial real estate services firm in the world in terms of 2019 revenue, our relative competitive position varies significantly across geographic markets, property types and services. We face competition from other global, national, regional and local commercial real estate service providers companies that traditionally competed in limited portions of our facilities management business and have expanded into other outsourcing offerings in-house corporate real estate departments and property owners/developers that self-perform real estate services investment banking firms, investment managers and developers that compete with us to raise and place investment capital and accounting/consulting firms that advise on real estate strategies. Some of these firms may have greater financial resources than we do. Despite recent consolidation, the commercial real estate services industry remains highly fragmented and competitive. Although many of our competitors are substantially smaller than we are, some of them are larger on a regional or local-market basis or have a stronger position in a specific market segment or service offering. Among our primary competitors are other large national and global firms, such as Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, or JLL, Cushman Wakefield, Colliers International Group, Inc., Savills plc and Newmark Group, Inc. market-segment specialists, such as Eastdil Secured, Marcus Millichap, Inc. and Walker Dunlop and firms with business lines that compete with our occupier outsourcing business, such as ISS, and Sodexo. In addition, in recent years, providers of flexible office-space solutions, such as WeWork, IWG/Regus/Spaces, Industrious and Knotel, have offered services directly to occupiers, providing competition, particularly for smaller space requirements. These providers also compete directly with our flexible-space solutions subsidiary, CBRE Hana, LLC, which launched in 2019. Seasonality A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which an investor should keep in mind when comparing our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities tend to be lowest in the first quarter, and highest in the fourth quarter of each year. Revenue, earnings and cash flow have generally been concentrated in the fourth calendar quarter due to the focus on completing sales, financing and leasing transactions prior to year-end. 5 Employees At December 31, 2019, excluding our independent affiliates, we had more than 100,000 employees worldwide, approximately 47% of whose costs are fully reimbursed by clients and are mostly in our Global Workplace Solutions segment and our property management line of business within our Advisory Services segment. At December 31, 2019, approximately 12% of our employees worldwide were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Intellectual Property We regard our intellectual property as an important part of our business. We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which include the CBRE, Hana and Telford marks. Although we believe our intellectual property plays a role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by the expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of our other intellectual property rights other than the CBRE and Trammell Crow Company marks. We maintain trademark registrations for the CBRE, Hana and Telford service marks in jurisdictions where we conduct significant business. We hold a license to use the Trammell Crow Company trade name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an affiliate of Crow Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which may be revoked if we fail to satisfy usage and quality control covenants under the license agreement. In addition to trademarks and trade names, we have acquired and developed proprietary technologies for the provision of complex services and analysis. We have a number of pending patent applications relating to these proprietary technologies. We will continue to file additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate, demonstrating our commitment to technology and innovation. We also offer proprietary research to clients through our CBRE Research and CBRE Econometric Advisors commercial real estate market information and forecasting groups and we offer proprietary investment analysis and structures through our CBRE Global Investors business. Environmental Matters Federal, state and local laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business impose environmental liabilities, controls, disclosure rules and zoning restrictions that affect the ownership, management, development, use or sale of commercial real estate. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a property, including contamination resulting from above-ground or underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos or lead at a property. If contamination occurs or is present during our role as a property or facility manager or developer, we could be held liable for such costs as a current operator of a property, regardless of the legality of the acts or omissions that caused the contamination and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The operator of a site also may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from exposure to hazardous substances or environmental contamination at a site, including liabilities arising from exposure to asbestos-containing materials. Under certain laws and common law principles, any failure by us to disclose environmental contamination at a property could subject us to liability to a buyer or lessee of the property. Further, federal, state and local governments in the countries in which we do business have enacted various laws, regulations and treaties governing environmental and climate change, particularly for greenhouse gases, which seek to tax, penalize or limit their release. Such regulations could lead to increased operational or compliance costs over time. While we are aware of the presence or the potential presence of regulated substances in the soil or groundwater at or near several properties owned, operated or managed by us that may have resulted from historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any material noncompliance with the environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely affect both the commercial real estate services industry in general and us. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may 6 also negatively affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our i nvestment m anagement and d evelopment s ervices businesses, which could adversely affect the results of operations of these business lines. Available Information Our website is www.cbre.com. On the Investor Relations section of our website ( https://ir.cbre.com ), we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Annual Report, our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including reports filed by our officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. All of the information on our investor relations website is available to be viewed free of charge. Investors and others should note that we routinely announce financial and other material information using our investor relations website, SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels of distribution to communicate with our investors and members of the public about our company, our services and other items of interest. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report or our other filings with the SEC. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless we are required to do so by law. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.