Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 115 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 115 Item 9B. Other Information 117 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 117 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 118 Item 11. Executive Compensation 118 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 118 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 118 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 118 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 119 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 119 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 120 SIGNATURES 125 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview CBRE Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation. References to CBRE, the company, we, us and our refer to CBRE Group, Inc. and include all of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise. We are the world s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm, based on 2021 revenue, with leading global market positions in our leasing, property sales, occupier outsourcing and valuation businesses. As of December 31, 2021, the company has more than 105,000 employees (excluding Turner Townsend Holdings Limited employees) serving clients in more than 100 countries. We provide services to real estate investors and occupiers. For investors, our services include capital markets (property sales, mortgage origination, sales and servicing), property leasing, investment management, property management, valuation and development services, among others. For occupiers, our services include facilities management, project management, transaction (both property sales and leasing) and consulting services, among others. We provide services under the following brand names: CBRE (real estate advisory and outsourcing services); CBRE Investment Management (investment management); Trammell Crow Company (U.S. development); Telford Homes (U.K. development); and Turner Townsend Holdings Limited . During 2020, CBRE sponsored a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC, CBRE Acquisition Holdings, Inc., which merged with and into Altus Power, Inc., a leading provider of solar energy for commercial and industrial properties. Altus Power Inc. (Altus) began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on December 10, 2021 under the ticker symbol AMPS. We generate revenue from both stable, recurring (large multi-year portfolio and per project contracts) and more cyclical, non-recurring sources, including commissions on transactions. Our revenue mix has become heavily weighted towards stable revenue sources, particularly occupier outsourcing, with our dependence on highly cyclical property sales and lease transaction revenue declining markedly. We believe we are well-positioned to capture a substantial and growing share of market opportunities at a time when investors and occupiers increasingly prefer to purchase integrated, account-based services on a national and global basis. In 2021, we generated revenue from a highly diversified base of clients, including more than 93 of the Fortune 100 companies. We have been an S P 500 company since 2006 and in 2021 we were ranked #122 on the Fortune 500. We have been voted the most recognized commercial real estate brand in the Lipsey Company survey for 21 years in a row (including 2022). We have also been rated a World s Most Ethical Company by the Ethisphere Institute for eight consecutive years (including 2021, the most recent year the award has been announced), and have been included in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for three years in a row and the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for three years in a row. CBRE History We will mark our 116th year of continuous operations in 2022, tracing our origins to a company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of the 1906 earthquake. Since then, we have grown into the largest global commercial real estate services and investment firm (in terms of 2021 revenue) through organic growth and strategic acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of a majority interest in Turner Townsend Holdings Limited (Turner Townsend), which closed in November 2021. Our Business Segments and Primary Services CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CBRE Group, Inc. does not have any independent operations or employees. CBRE Services, Inc., our direct wholly owned subsidiary, is also a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term indebtedness. 1 Table of Contents We report our operations through three business segments: (1) Advisory Services, (2) Global Workplace Solutions and (3) Real Estate Investments. Effective January 1, 2021, we established a new measurement of profit and loss at the business segment level known as segment operating profit. This measure isolates activities not attributed to our core business which are now reported in a Corporate, other and elimination segment. Our Corporate segment primarily consists of corporate headquarters costs for executive officers and certain other central functions. We track our strategic non-core non-controlling equity investments in other which is considered an operating segment and reported together with Corporate as it does not meet the aggregation criteria for presentation as a separate reportable segment. These activities are not allocated to the other business segments. Corporate and other also includes eliminations related to inter-segment revenue. Effective January 1, 2021, lease and sales transaction revenue and expenses were fully reported under the Advisory Services segment and project management revenue and expenses were fully reported under the Global Workplace Solutions segment. Prior to 2021, these revenues were split between the Global Workplace Solutions and the Advisory Services segments. Advisory Services Advisory Services provides a comprehensive range of services globally, including property leasing, property sales, mortgage services, property management and valuation. Most of our Advisory Services operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE, Inc. and its subsidiaries around the world. Our mortgage services, the vast majority of which are in the United States (U.S.), are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets, Inc. (CBRE Capital Markets) and its affiliates. The primary services within Advisory Services are further described below. Leasing Services We provide strategic advice and execution for owners/investors, and occupiers/tenants of real estate, primarily in connection with the leasing of office, industrial and retail space. In 2021, we negotiated leases valued at more than $140.0 billion globally. We generate significant business from account-based occupier clients, where we are retained to negotiate leases for all or a portion of their portfolio. This results in recurring revenue over time. We believe we are the market leader for leasing services to both occupiers and owners in most leading U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Dallas, Denver, Kansas City, Los Angeles, the Midwest, New York, Orange County, Philadelphia, Phoenix, San Francisco, Seattle and St. Louis. Capital Markets We provide property sales and mortgage services, which are closely integrated to meet marketplace demand for comprehensive capital markets solutions. During 2021, we closed approximately $477.8 billion of capital markets transactions globally, including $388.7 billion of property sales transactions and $89.1 billion of mortgage originations and loan sales. We are the leading property sales advisor globally. In the U.S., we accounted for approximately 16.3% of investment sales transactions greater than $2.5 million across all property types in 2021, according to Real Capital Analytics. Our mortgage brokerage professionals arrange, originate and service commercial mortgage loans through relationships established with investment banking firms, national and regional banks, credit companies, insurance companies, U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs), and pension funds. Globally, our loan origination and sales volume in 2021 was $89.1 billion, including approximately $16.8 billion for U.S. GSEs. Most of the GSE loans were financed through revolving warehouse credit lines through a CBRE subsidiary that is dedicated exclusively for this purpose and were substantially risk mitigated by either obtaining a contractual purchase commitment from the GSE or confirming a forward-trade commitment for the issuance and purchase of a mortgage-backed security to be secured by the loan. We also oversee a loan servicing portfolio, which totaled approximately $329.7 billion globally at year-end 2021. 2 Table of Contents In many countries that we operate in (including the U.S.), our real estate services professionals (both leasing and capital markets) are compensated primarily through commissions, which are payable upon completion of an assignment. This mitigates the effect of compensation, our largest expense, on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. We strive to retain top professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity as well as investments in support resources, including professional development and training, market research and data/information, technology, branding and marketing. Property Management Services We provide property management services on a contractual basis, primarily for owners of and investors in office, industrial and retail properties. These services include marketing, building engineering, lease administration, accounting and financial services. As of December 31, 2021, we managed 2.7 billion square feet of properties globally for property owners/investors. We are compensated for our services through a monthly management fee earned based on either a specified percentage of the monthly rental income, rental receipts generated from the property under management or a fixed fee. We are also often reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs directly attributable to the properties under management. Our management agreements with our property management services clients may be terminated by either party with notice generally ranging between 30 to 90 days; however, we have developed long-term relationships with many of these clients and the typical contract continues for multiple years. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including leasing, refinancing, disposition and appraisal. Valuation Services We provide valuation services that include market-value appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses, feasibility studies as well as consulting services such as property condition reports, hotel advisory and environmental consulting. Our valuation business has developed proprietary systems for data management, analysis and valuation report preparation, which we believe provide us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our valuation business is one of the largest in the commercial real estate industry. During 2021, we completed over 564,800 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments, including residential valuations in Asia Pacific. Global Workplace Solutions Global Workplace Solutions provides a broad suite of integrated, contractually based outsourcing services to occupiers of real estate, including facilities management and project management. There is also significant cross selling of account-based Advisory services, particularly leasing, property sales and portfolio administration, for Global Workplace Solutions clients. We believe the outsourcing of corporate real estate services is a long-term trend in our industry, with multi-national corporations, and other large occupiers of space utilizing global, full-service real estate firms to achieve better workplaces for their people, while attempting to lower their cost of occupancy. We typically enter into multi-year, often multi-service, outsourcing contracts with services delivered via dedicated account teams and/or an on-demand basis. The key outsourcing services offered through this business segment are described below. Facilities Management Services Facilities Management involves the day-to-day management of client-occupied space for traditional office space, such as headquarter buildings, regional offices and administrative offices, as well as facilities serving specialized industries, such as data centers, life science and medical facilities, distribution warehouses, government facilities and retail stores. Contracts for facilities management services are often structured so that we are reimbursed for client-dedicated personnel costs and subcontracted vendor costs as well as associated overhead expenses plus a monthly fee, and in some cases, annual incentives tied to agreed-upon performance targets, with any penalties typically capped. These are referred to as cost-plus contracts. In addition, we have contracts for facilities management services based on fixed-fee unit prices or guaranteed maximum prices. Fixed-fee contracts are typically structured where an agreed-upon scope of work is delivered for a fixed price while guaranteed maximum price contracts are structured with an agreed upon scope of work that will be provided to the client for a not-to-exceed price. We furnish facilities management services to clients with single or multiple-location assets as well as regional, national and global portfolios. As of December 31, 2021, we managed approximately 4.4 billion square feet of facilities on behalf of occupiers. 3 Table of Contents Our facilities management services are managed across three sub-lines of business enterprise, local and data center services by client type. Cost-plus contracts are most common for enterprise customers while fixed-price contracts predominate for local clients. Project Management Services Project management services can be provided on a one-off or programmatic basis to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in local markets. Revenues from project management services generally include fixed management fees, variable fees, lump sum and incentive fees if certain agreed-upon performance targets are met. Revenues from project management may also include reimbursement of payroll and related costs for personnel providing the services and subcontracted vendor costs. In 2021, we were responsible for implementing project management contracts valued at approximately $133.0 billion, excluding Turner Townsend. On November 1, 2021 we acquired a 60 % ownership interest in Turner Townsend Holdings Limited, a global professional services company specializing in program management, project management, and cost consulting across the commercial real estate, infrastructure and natural resources sectors. Turner Townsend complements our existing project management services for clients. Turner Townsend s financial results, from the date of acquisition, are consolidated in our Global Workplace Solutions segment. Real Estate Investments Real Estate Investments includes: (i) investment management services provided globally; (ii) development services in the U.S., United Kingdom (U.K.) and Continental Europe; and (iii) legacy flexible office space solutions. Investment Management Services Investment management services are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CBRE Investment Management, LLC (CBRE Investment Management) and its global affiliates. CBRE Investment Management provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other institutional investors seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real assets such as real estate, infrastructure, master limited partnerships and other assets. We sponsor investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. In some strategies, CBRE Investment Management and its investment teams co-invest with its limited partners. Increasingly, real estate assets we are developing through our development services business are being placed into investment management strategies creating greater operational synergies among the Real Estate Investments businesses. CBRE Investment Management s offerings are organized into five primary categories: (1) direct real estate investments through sponsored funds; (2) direct real estate investments through separate accounts; (3) indirect real estate and infrastructure investments through listed securities; (4) indirect real estate, infrastructure and private equity investments through multi-manager investment programs; and (5) credit investments backed by real estate through sponsored funds, separate accounts or pooled strategies. Assets under management (AUM) totaled $141.9 billion at December 31, 2021 as compared to $122.7 billion at December 31, 2020, an increase of $19.2 billion ($22.6 billion in local currency). Development Services Development services are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company, LLC, which provides commercial real estate development services in the U.S., U.K., and Continental Europe, and Telford Homes Plc (Telford), a developer of residential multi-family properties in the U.K. 4 Table of Contents Our development business pursues opportunistic, risk-mitigated development and investment strategies for users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for our own account. Our development business is active in industrial, office, residential multi-family/mixed-use projects, life sciences and healthcare facilities of all types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers) and retail properties. We are compensated by our clients on a fee basis with no, or limited, ownership interest in a property; in partnership with our clients through co-investment either on an individual project basis or through programs with certain strategic capital partners or for our own account with 100% ownership. Development services activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our ownership interest. At December 31, 2021, we had $18.5 billion of development projects in process, and our development pipeline (prospective projects that we estimate have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the projected construction start date is more than one year out) totaled $9.3 billion at December 31, 2021. Legacy Flexible-Space Solution Provider We operated our former flexible-office-space solutions business, CBRE Hana, LLC (Hana) for the first three months of 2021. In the second quarter of 2021, CBRE increased its ownership interest in Industrious National Management Company LLC (Industrious), which is reported in our Advisory Services segment, to 40 %. As part of this transaction, Hana was integrated into Industrious. CBRE retains responsibility for the performance of certain legacy Hana units, the results of which were consolidated into the Real Estate Investments segment in 2021. Competition We face competition across our lines of business on a global, multi-national, national, regional and local level. Although we are the largest commercial real estate services firm in the world in terms of 2021 revenue, our relative competitive position varies significantly across geographic markets, property types and services. We face competition from other global, national, regional and local commercial real estate service providers; companies that traditionally competed in limited portions of our facilities management business and have expanded into other outsourcing offerings; in-house corporate real estate departments and property owners/developers that self-perform real estate services; investment banking firms, investment managers and developers that compete with us to raise and place investment capital; accounting/consulting firms that advise on real estate strategies; and providers of flexible office-space solutions that offer space directly to the occupier. Despite ongoing consolidation, the commercial real estate services industry remains highly fragmented and competitive. Although many of our competitors are substantially smaller than we are, some of them are larger on a regional or local-market basis or have a stronger position in a specific market segment or service offering. Among our primary competitors are other large national and global firms, such as Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated (JLL), Cushman Wakefield plc, Colliers International Group Inc., Savills plc, and Newmark Group Inc., market-segment specialists, such as Eastdil Secured, Marcus Millichap, Inc. and Walker Dunlop, Inc.; firms with business lines that compete with some business lines within our occupier outsourcing business, such as ISS, and Sodexo S.A., firms engaged in project management such as Arcadis and AECOM, and firms that provide flexible office-space solutions, such as WeWork, IWG/Regus/Spaces, and Knotel. These flexible space providers also compete directly with Industrious in which we hold a 40 % non-controlling interest. Seasonality In a typical year, a significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which an investor should keep in mind when comparing our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities have tended to be lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter of each year. Revenue, earnings and cash flow have generally been concentrated in the fourth calendar quarter due to the focus on completing sales, financing and leasing transactions prior to year-end. The ongoing impact of the Covid-19 pandemic may cause seasonality to deviate from historical patterns. 5 Table of Contents Human Capital People Culture People are at the center of our strategy to deliver measurably superior outcomes for clients, and therefore we place a high priority on attracting, retaining and developing the best talent. Our human capital programs are designed to help prepare our professionals to succeed in their current and future roles, develop our leaders of tomorrow, reward our people with competitive pay and benefits, foster an engaging and inclusive workplace, and improve productivity through investments in technology, tools and resources. At December 31, 2021, we had more than 105,000 employees (excluding Turner Townsend employees) worldwide, approximately 47% of whose costs are fully reimbursed by clients and are mostly in our Global Workplace Solutions segment and our property management line of business within our Advisory Services segment. At December 31, 2021, approximately 14% of our employees worldwide were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our global workforce at December 31, 2021 is comprised of approximately 33% female and 67% male employees. RISE Values We champion four key values Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence which serve as the foundation upon which our company is built and as a touchstone for how our employees conduct themselves. Diversity, Equity Inclusion (DE I) CBRE is committed to increasing the diversity of our workforce and strengthening an inclusive culture where everyone is valued and supported in achieving their full potential. These efforts are led by our Chief Responsibility Officer, a senior executive level position reporting directly to our Chief Executive Officer. We have many programs and initiatives focused on driving these outcomes. These include deploying a global unconscious bias training program and enacting a policy that focuses on having a diverse talent pool and a diverse panel to interview prospective candidates. We exceeded our goal, announced in 2020, of spending $1 billion with diverse suppliers in 2021 and are on course to lift that annual spend to $3 billion by 2025. Also, as part of our community impact initiative, announced in 2021, we made significant financial contributions to eight non-profit organizations that are helping to improve education and career development opportunities for people from diverse and disadvantaged communities. We are also committed to stepping up our volunteerism with these organizations in 2022 and beyond. These efforts will help to build the pipeline of diverse talent well into the future. Our employee business resource groups are an essential element of our DE I activities, facilitating career and professional development and networking opportunities. We publicly report demographics, including diversity data, for our U.S. workforce annually in our Corporate Responsibility Report. Our policies and practices have earned the company a place in the Human Rights Campaign s Corporate Equality Index for nine consecutive years and recognition on the Disability Equality Index. Total Rewards We provide competitive total rewards programs in all the markets in which we operate, including fixed and variable pay, and comprehensive, company-specific benefits. Additionally, managers may implement flexible work arrangements, such as compressed work weeks and flextime, after considering several factors such as the nature of the employee s work. We remain committed to providing eligible employees with meaningful and affordable benefits. We provide a variety of programs to support holistic physical and behavioral health, short and long-term financial stability, family planning and emotional resiliency for employees at any stage in their career. Learning and Development We prioritize and invest in a multitude of training and development programs that enable employees to build satisfying careers. These include webinars, classroom training, self-paced e-learning, coaching, mentoring and a variety of on-the-job projects. To increase diversity, equity and inclusion awareness and adoption, we also launched a diversity training program in 2020 for all employees globally. As part of this diversity training program, our senior leaders completed an intercultural development inventory self-assessment, attended a 3-hour instructor-led virtual session and developed an inclusive leader personal action plan. 6 Table of Contents Communication and Engagement Our success depends on employees understanding how their work contributes to the company s overall strategy. We use a variety of channels to facilitate two-way communication, including open forums with executives, annual employee engagement surveys, regularly scheduled performance review processes and participation in employee resource groups ( e.g. networking groups for African-Americans, Hispanics, Asian Pacific Islander-Americans and military veterans and other groups). Workplace Safety and Wellbeing We drive a culture where safety and well-being have a prominent place in virtually every business decision. We insist on high global standards and leadership accountability and strive to continually improve safety and well-being outcomes. We define well-being across five dimensions: occupational, social, environmental, physical, and intellectual. In 2021, we hosted our annual globally coordinated Safety and Wellbeing Week, themed Connect with Purpose . We also have the Be Well campaign, focused on supporting employee well-being through benefits enhancements, awareness campaigns, podcast series, and engagement programs that received external recognition. Communities and Giving We are committed to supporting and adding value to the communities where our employees live and work around the world, as well as in communities where the need is greatest. In 2021, the CBRE Foundation launched fund-raising programs to assist the victims of the earthquake in Haiti and the tornados in the U.S. Midwest. Recently, CBRE and the CBRE Foundation, a non-profit public-benefit corporation, announced a community impact initiative whereby the company donated $7.25 million to non-profit organizations engaged in combating climate change around the world, improving education and career development opportunities for racial minorities and disadvantaged populations, and supporting community betterment initiatives in our global headquarters city of Dallas. 7 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We regard our intellectual property as an important part of our business. We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which include the CBRE, Turner Townsend and Telford marks. Although we believe our intellectual property plays a role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by the expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of our other intellectual property rights other than the 