Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 25 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 111 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 111 Item 9B. Other Information 112 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 113 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 113 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 113 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 114 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 122 Signatures 125 Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management's expectations as of the filing date of this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Statements that are not historical facts are hereby identified as forward-looking statements. In addition, words such as "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "intend," "believe," "expect," "likely," "predicted," "positioned," "continue," "target," and any variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements include plans, projections and estimates contained in "Item 1. Business," "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("MD A"), and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" herein. Such forward-looking statements include (1) benefits and opportunities stemming from our strategy, strategic position, business model and capabilities, (2) the strength and growth potential of the U.S. market for shared communications infrastructure investment, (3) expectations regarding anticipated growth in the wireless industry, and consumption of and demand for data, including growth in, and factors driving, consumption and demand, (4) potential benefits of our communications infrastructure (on an individual and collective basis) and expectations regarding demand therefore, including potential benefits and continuity of and factors driving such demand, (5) expectations regarding construction, including duration of our construction projects, and acquisition of communications infrastructure, (6) the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs"), (7) expectations regarding wireless carriers' focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity, (8) expectations regarding continued adoption and increase in usage of high-bandwidth applications by organizations, (9) expected benefits of future potential spectrum auctions, (10) competitive factors affecting our business, (11) expected use of net proceeds from issuances under the commercial paper program ("CP Program"), (12) assumed conversion of 6.785% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and the impact therefrom and dividends expected to be paid on such preferred stock, (13) our full year 2020 outlook and the anticipated growth in our financial results, including future revenues, and the expectations regarding our 2020 capital expenditures, as well as the factors impacting expected growth in financial results and the levels of capital expenditures, (14) expectations regarding our capital structure and the credit markets, our availability and cost of capital, capital allocation, our leverage ratio and interest coverage targets, our ability to service our debt and comply with debt covenants, future of LIBOR and any replacement rate thereto, level of available commitment we intend to maintain under our debt instruments, and the plans for and the benefits of any future refinancings, (15) the utility of certain financial measures, including non-GAAP financial measures, (16) expectations related to our ability to remain qualified as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") and the advantages, benefits or impact of, or opportunities created by, our REIT status, (17) adequacy, projected sources and uses of liquidity, (18) expectations related to the impact of tenant consolidation or ownership changes, including the impact from the potential transaction between T-Mobile and Sprint, (19) continued slowdown in demand for our communications infrastructure, (20) expectations regarding non-renewals of tenant contracts, (21) our dividend policy and the timing, amount, growth or tax characterization of any dividends, (22) the potential effects of the restatement of our previously issued consolidated financial statements, including the Historical Adjustments (as defined below) related thereto, and any litigation stemming therefrom and (23) expectations regarding our remediation efforts related to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. All future dividends are subject to declaration by our board of directors. Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions, risk factors described under "