Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 87 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 87 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 87 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 87 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 87 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 87 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 88 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Signatures 100 Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K ("2021 Form 10-K") contains forward-looking statements that are based on our management's expectations as of the filing date of this report with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Statements that are not historical facts are hereby identified as forward-looking statements. In addition, words such as "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "intend," "believe," "expect," "likely," "predicted," "positioned," "continue," "target," "seek," "focus" and any variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements include plans, projections and estimates contained in "Item 1. Business," "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("MD A"), and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" herein. Such forward-looking statements include (1) benefits, growth, returns, stockholder value, and opportunities stemming from our strategy, strategic position, business model and capabilities, (2) the strength and growth potential of the U.S. market for shared communications infrastructure investment, (3) expectations regarding anticipated growth in the wireless industry, and consumption of and demand for data, including growth in, and factors driving, consumption and demand, (4) potential benefits of our communications infrastructure (on an individual and collective basis) and expectations regarding demand therefor, including potential benefits and continuity of and factors driving such demand, (5) competitive factors affecting our business, (6) expectations regarding construction, including duration of our construction projects, and acquisition of communications infrastructure, (7) focus on workforce diversity and inclusion, (8) the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs"), (9) expectations regarding wireless carriers' network investments, (10) expectations regarding continued increase in usage of high-bandwidth applications by organizations, 2 (11) availability of spectrum and the expected benefits of spectrum auctions, (12) expected use of net proceeds from issuances under the commercial paper program ("CP Program"), (13) our full year 2022 outlook and the anticipated growth in our financial results, including future revenues and operating cash flows, and the expectations regarding our 2022 capital expenditures, as well as the factors impacting our financial results and the levels of capital expenditures, (14) expectations regarding our capital structure and the credit markets, our availability and cost of capital, capital allocation, our leverage ratio and interest coverage targets, our ability to service our debt and comply with debt covenants, future of the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") and any replacement rate thereto, level of available commitment we intend to maintain under our debt instruments, and the plans for and the benefits of any future refinancings, (15) the utility of certain financial measures, including non-GAAP financial measures, (16) expectations related to our ability to remain qualified as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") and the advantages, benefits or impact of, or opportunities created by, our REIT status, (17) adequacy, projected sources and uses of liquidity, (18) expectations related to the impact of tenant consolidation or ownership changes, including the impact from the T-Mobile and Sprint network consolidation, (19) expectations regarding non-renewals of tenant contracts, including as a result of the T-Mobile Agreement (as defined below), (19) our dividend policy and the timing, amount, growth or tax characterization of our dividends, (20) the T-Mobile Agreement, including expectations related thereto and the benefits derived therefrom, (21) the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and any measures taken with respect thereto, (22) the potential impact on our business from unforeseen events or cybersecurity breaches and other information technology disruptions, (23) the outcome of outstanding litigation, (24) our carbon neutral goal and plans related thereto, (25) small cell deployment and any delays related thereto, (26) supply chain disruptions and labor shortages and the delays resulting therefrom, (27) our discretionary investments and the benefits derived therefrom, (28) the annual adjustments in the interest rate spread and unused commitment fee percentage on our 2016 Credit Facility and (29) the redemption of the 3.849% Secured Notes (as defined below). All future dividends are subject to declaration by our board of directors. Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions, risk factors described under "