Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 42 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 42 Item 9B. Other Information 43 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 43 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 Item 11. Executive Compensation 44 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 44 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 44 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 85 Signatures 86 Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or contain other forward-looking statements. Statements including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent and timing of future revenues and expenses and customer demand, statements regarding the deployment of our products and services, statements regarding our reliance on third parties, statements regarding the impact on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures or mandates, and other and statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, targets, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those expressed in these statements. Important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those identified in Proprietary Technology, Competition, Risk Factors, Critical Accounting Estimates, Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) filings. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview Cadence is a leader in electronic system design, building upon more than 30 years of computational software expertise. We apply our underlying Intelligent System Design strategy to deliver computational software, hardware and IP that turn design concepts into reality. Our customers include some of the world s most innovative companies that deliver extraordinary electronic products from chips to boards to systems for dynamic market applications. We enable our customers to develop electronic products. Our products and services are designed to give our customers a competitive edge in their development of integrated circuits ( ICs ), systems-on-chip ( SoCs ), and increasingly sophisticated electronic devices and systems. Our products and services do this by optimizing performance, minimizing power consumption, shortening the time to bring our customers products to market, improving engineering productivity and reducing their design, development and manufacturing costs. Our electronic systems customers deliver entire devices, such as smartphones, laptop computers, gaming systems, automobiles and autonomous driving systems, servers, cloud data center infrastructure, artificial intelligence ( AI ) systems, aerospace and defense, medical equipment and networking products. These systems companies internally develop, or externally purchase, the sub-components for their products, including printed circuit boards ( PCBs ), which interconnect all the hardware components, ICs, which are often referred to as computer chips, and software at various levels which runs on the hardware. Our semiconductor customers deliver ICs, which include subcategories such as processors, SoCs, AI, memory, analog and other types of chips. We offer software, hardware, services and reusable IC design blocks, which are commonly referred to as intellectual property ( IP ). Our semiconductor customers use our offerings to design, configure, analyze and verify ICs. Additionally, customers license our IP, which accelerates their product development processes by providing pre-designed and verified circuit blocks for their ICs. Systems customers use our offerings to design, simulate, and verify the electro-thermal and physical functionality of their ICs, PCBs, and systems products. Our strategy, which we call Intelligent System Design, is to provide the computational software technologies necessary for our electronic system and semiconductor customers to develop products across a variety of vertical markets including consumer, hyperscale computing, mobile, 5G communications, automotive, aerospace and defense, industrial and healthcare. We address the challenges posed by the needs and trends of electronic systems companies as well as semiconductor companies delivering greater portions of these systems. The development of electronic products, or their sub-components, is complex and requires many engineers using our solutions with specialized knowledge and skill. The rate of technical innovation in electronics is swift, long driven by a concept known as Moore s Law, which more than 50 years ago predicted that the complexity of ICs would double approximately every 24 months. In order to make our customers successful, our products must handle this exponential growth rate in complexity, without requiring a corresponding increase in our customers costs. Historically, the industry that provided the tools used by IC engineers was referred to as Electronic Design Automation ( EDA ). Today, our offerings include and extend beyond EDA to enable computational software for Intelligent System Design across three layers as illustrated below starting with IC and SoC design excellence, followed by system innovation, and then pervasive intelligence. 1 Table of Contents The IC and SoC design excellence requires technologies for custom IC, digital IC design and signoff, and functional verification, and leverages pre-built semiconductor IP. These tools, IP and associated services are specifically designed to meet the growing requirements of engineers designing increasingly complex chips across analog, digital and mixed-signal domains, and perform the associated verification tasks, including validation of low-level software running on the silicon model, thereby enabling design teams to manage complexity and verification throughput without commensurately increasing the team size or extending the project schedule, while reducing technical risks. The second layer of our strategy centers around system innovation. It includes tools and services used for system design of the packages that encapsulate the ICs and the PCBs, system simulation which includes electromagnetic, electro-thermal and other multi-physics analysis necessary as part of optimizing the full system s performance, radio frequency ( RF ) and microwave systems, and embedded software. The third layer of our strategy addresses pervasive intelligence in new electronics. It starts with providing solutions and services to develop AI-enhanced systems and includes machine learning and deep learning capabilities being added to the Cadence technology portfolio to make IP and tools more automated and to produce optimized results faster. Our software and emulation products also support cloud access to address the growing computational needs of our customers. Recent Acquisitions During fiscal 2021, we continued to execute our Intelligent System Design strategy and expanded our product offerings and solutions into computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) with our acquisitions of Belgium-based NUMECA International, a leader in CFD technology, and Pointwise, Inc, a leading provider of CFD meshing technology. The addition of these technologies and talent broadens our System Design and Analysis portfolio and expertise. Chief Executive Officer Transition On December 15, 2021, Anirudh Devgan assumed the role of President and Chief Executive Officer of Cadence, replacing Lip-Bu Tan. Prior to his role as Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Devgan served as President of Cadence. Concurrently, Mr. Tan transitioned to the role of Executive Chair. 2 Table of Contents Business Drivers Our products and services enable our customers to design complex and innovative electronic products that are accelerated by the growing digital transformation. Demand for our technology and expertise is driven by increasing complexity and our customers investment in new designs and products. The most promising new opportunities for us involve enabling the design of electronic systems for consumers, including augmented reality ( AR ), virtual reality ( VR ), and industrial internet of things ( IIoT ), hyperscale computing (including data center infrastructure), AI, edge computing, mobile, communications (including 5G networks), automotive, aerospace and defense, and industrial and healthcare subsystems. Large and existing electronics categories, such as data center infrastructure, mobile, smartphones and networking products continue to provide business opportunities for us as customers initiate new design projects. Underlying the requirements within any particular vertical market sector is the availability of rapidly improving IC manufacturing technology. In order for our customers to take advantage of such advancements, some of our products need to first incorporate new capabilities such that they can exploit new manufacturing capabilities. This dependency means that we must invest significantly in product research and development ( R D ) to keep pace with the latest manufacturing technology. The demand for new IC manufacturing technology directly impacts the demand for our newest products. Another driver for our business is the differentiation, capabilities and benefits provided to our customers by our products. With the rapid pace of innovation comes the opportunity for our products to address growing key challenges associated with electronic product creation, such as power consumption, performance, chip area and cost. Our products and services have unique attributes that our customers value. In general, these attributes can be grouped into broader categories such as quality of results ( QoR ) (in terms of power consumption, performance and chip area), engineering productivity, tool performance, manufacturing, reliability, and faster time to market. Many of these attributes contribute to the sustainability of our planet by enabling our customers to create innovative products that optimize power, space and energy needs. We are applying machine learning or computational software techniques within our products to enhance QoR, productivity, performance, manufacturing, reliability and methodology. Products and Product Strategy Our Intelligent System Design strategy enables our customers to address a broad range of challenges that arise as they develop electronic products. Our solutions are categorized according to the role they play in the electronic product design process. We group our products into categories related to major design activities, including Custom IC Design and Simulation, Digital IC Design and Signoff, Functional Verification, IP, and System Design and Analysis. Custom IC Design and Simulation Our custom IC design and simulation offerings are used by our customers to create schematic and physical representations of circuits down to the transistor level for analog, mixed-signal, custom digital, memory and RF designs. These representations are verified using simulation tools optimized for each type of design, including the design capture environment, simulation and IC layout within the Virtuoso custom IC design platform. Other tools in the custom IC portfolio are used to prepare the designs for manufacturing. The Virtuoso Advanced-Node Platform adds functionality to the base Virtuoso package to enable the use of three-dimensional transistors ( FinFETs ), multi-patterning and other technologies required for advanced designs. The Virtuoso RF Solution addresses the challenges of RF design across chip, package and board. The Spectre Simulation Platform provides large-scale verification simulation. The Virtuoso System Design Platform enables engineers to design and verify concurrently across the chip, package and board. Digital IC Design and Signoff Our digital IC design and signoff solutions are used to create logical representations of a digital circuit or an IC that can be verified for correctness prior to implementation (please refer to the discussion under Functional Verification below). Once the logic is verified, the design representation is implemented, or converted to a format ready for silicon manufacturing, using additional software tools within this category. The manufacturing representation is also analyzed and verified. Our digital IC design and signoff technology suite provides a full flow to achieve power, performance and area ( PPA ) design targets, and includes three major categories: logic design, physical implementation and signoff. Our logic design offering is comprised of logic synthesis, test and equivalence checking capabilities and is typically used by customers to create and verify designs in conjunction with our functional verification capabilities. The offering includes the Genus Synthesis Solution, a logic synthesis offering that provides fast throughput while also offering high quality results, and the Joules RTL Power Solution, which delivers fast power analysis while preserving near-signoff accuracy. We also offer the Modus software solution, which reduces SoC design-for-test time. Our physical implementation offering comprises tools used near the end of the design process, including place and route, optimization and multi-patterning preparation. The Innovus Implementation System is a physical implementation offering that delivers fast design turnaround time while also delivering improved PPA characteristics. This offering enables customers to address the technology challenges of the latest semiconductor advanced-process nodes, create a physical representation of logic models and prepare a design for signoff. 3 Table of Contents Our signoff offering is comprised of tools used to sign off the design as ready for manufacture by a semiconductor foundry, which provides certification for this step. This offering includes the Tempus Timing Signoff Solution, Voltus Power Integrity Solution, Quantus Extraction Solution and Pegasus Physical Verification System. Our design-for-manufacturing products are also included in our signoff offering and are used by customers to address manufacturing and yield issues as early in the product development process as possible. Functional Verification Functional verification products are used by our customers to effectively and efficiently verify that the circuitry or the software they have designed is consistent with the functional specification. Verification is largely done throughout the design process, with the objective of identifying as many potential functional problems as possible before manufacturing the circuitry, thereby significantly reducing the risk of discovering a costly error in the completed product. Our Verification Suite includes four primary verification engines, starting with the JasperGold Formal Verification Platform and Xcelium Parallel Logic Simulation Platform, which are used in the early stages of design verification, often at the IP and subsystem level. Once the design is more mature, with early formal and simulation verification tasks performed, verification engineers deploy our Palladium Enterprise Emulation Platform and Protium FPGA-Based Prototyping Platforms for more comprehensive chip verification, often running low-level embedded software on top of a model of the chip, to provide for proper functionality before silicon manufacturing. These engines are used for early bug detection, verification of block-level functionality, verification acceleration and emulation of system-level functionality, system-level power exploration, analysis and optimization, and system-level prototyping for hardware/software co-verification. Our Palladium platform provides high throughput, capacity, data center reliability and workgroup productivity to enable global design teams to develop advanced hardware-software systems. The Protium platform leverages a common front end with the Palladium environment to move designs rapidly from emulation to the prototyping stage, allowing for software development to start weeks to months earlier than otherwise possible. These engines are also supported by other verification tools that provide an environment that allows for effective verification throughput and management, including verification planning and metric tracking, testbench automation, debugging and software-driven tests, enabling our customers to coordinate verification activities across multiple verification engines, teams and locations for effective verification closure. IP Our IP offerings consist of pre-verified, customizable functional blocks, which customers integrate into their ICs to accelerate the development process and to reduce the risk of errors in the design process. We offer many types of IP, including Tensilica configurable digital signal processors ( DSPs ), vertically targeted subsystems for AI, audio/voice, baseband and vision/imaging applications, controllers and physical interfaces for standard protocols and analog IP. Our design IP portfolio also includes solutions for high speed SerDes, PCI, USB and many other standards. We also offer a broad range of Verification IP ( VIP ) with memory models, which model the expected behavior of many industry standard protocols when used with verification solutions and are complementary to our design IP offerings. Our VIP and accelerated VIP are used with our full suite of functional verification engines to emulate and model the expected behavior and interaction of standard industry system interface protocols including DDR, USB, and PCI Express in silicon. Our customers also use our System VIP offerings to perform full system-level chip verification. System Design and Analysis Our system design and analysis offerings are used by our customers to develop PCBs and advanced IC packages and to analyze electromagnetic, electro-thermal and other multi-physics effects. The capabilities in the Allegro System Design Platform include PCB authoring and implementation, IC package and system-in-package design, signal and power integrity analysis, and PCB library design management and collaboration. The need for compact, high-performance mobile, consumer and automotive design with advanced serial interconnect is driving the technology evolution for our PCB offerings. For mainstream PCB customers, where individual or small team productivity is a focus, we provide the OrCAD family of offerings that is primarily marketed worldwide through a network of resellers. The speed and close proximity of signals on silicon, through packages to boards, and through connectors and cables, exposes these communications to various kinds of interference, generates heat and emits electromagnetic radiation. Careful analysis is required for these systems to work as designed under a wide range of operating conditions and within compliance of standards and laws. The complexity of these devices and signal transmissions requires analysis and simulation throughout the product lifecycle to meet these objectives. Our Clarity 3D Solver for electromagnetic and power electronics analysis and simulation, as well as our Celsius Thermal Solver, provide the foundation for multi-physics analysis technology, with complete electrical-thermal co-simulation for electronic systems from ICs to physical enclosures. The addition of our CFD solution expands our ability to meet the growing design challenges of electronic and systems companies. Our CFD solution enables our customers to extend their multi-physics analysis workflows to address simulation and analysis challenges for applications such as aerodynamics, hydrodynamics, propulsion, heat transfer, and combustion. 4 Table of Contents Product Arrangements We primarily license our software using time-based licenses. Our time-based license arrangements offer customers the right to access and use all of the products delivered at the outset of an arrangement and updates throughout the entire term of the arrangement, which is generally two to three years, with no rights to return. Our updates provide for continued access to our evolving technology as our customers designs migrate to more advanced nodes. In addition, certain time-based license arrangements include the right for the customer to remix among the products delivered at the outset of the arrangement and use unspecified additional products that become commercially available during the term of the arrangement. A small portion of our software is licensed under perpetual licenses, which does not include the right to use new technology. Payment terms for time-based licenses generally provide for payments to be made over the license period, and payment terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days. The Cadence Cloud portfolio, consisting of Cadence-managed and customer-managed environments for electronic product developers using the scalability of the cloud, continues to expand, with additional cloud-ready products added or under development in fiscal 2021. Contractual arrangements with customers for both environments are time-based, similar to the on-premises software license arrangements described above, and may also include usage-based terms. Our emulation and prototyping hardware products are either sold or leased to our customers. Our emulation hardware can also be accessed remotely via a Cadence-managed cloud arrangement. We generally license our design IP under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific designs. Some customers enter into a non-cancellable IP Access Agreement ( IPAA ), whereby the customer commits to a fixed dollar amount over a specified period of time that can be used to purchase from a list of IP products or services. In addition, for certain IP license agreements, we collect royalties as our customers ship their product that includes our IP to their customers. For a further description of our license agreements, our emulation and prototyping hardware sale or lease agreements, revenue recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to the discussion under Critical Accounting Estimates under Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Technical Support and Maintenance Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support and maintenance to facilitate their use of our software, hardware and IP solutions. Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are delivered online, app-based, or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers path to productivity in the use of our products. Our Learning and Support System gives customers easy access to extensive online training and webinar offerings to support the increase in the number of our customers employees working from home. Services We offer a number of services, including services related to methodology, education and hosted design solutions. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the license, sale or lease of our products. As necessary, specialized design services engineers are assigned to internal R D projects associated with our design IP business. As part of our services offerings, we design advanced ICs, develop custom IP and help customers address design challenges. This enables us to target and accelerate the development of new software technology and products to satisfy current and future design requirements. We offer engineering services to collaborate with our customers in the design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design capabilities, including low power design, IC packaging and board design, functional verification, digital implementation, analog/mixed-signal design and system-level design. The customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor and systems companies developing products for the consumer, hyperscale computing, 5G communications, mobile automotive, aerospace and defense, industrial and healthcare verticals. These ICs range from digital SoCs and analog and RF designs to complex mixed-signal ICs. In delivering methodology services, we leverage our experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products, leading practices and different design environments to improve the productivity of our customers engineering teams. Depending on the customers projects and needs, we work with customers using outsourced, consultative and collaborative offerings. Third-Party Programs and Initiatives In addition to our products, many customers use design tools that are provided by other companies, as well as design IP available from alternative suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and design IP through our Cadence Connections program and through our participation in industry groups such as the Silicon Integration Initiative and Accellera System Initiative. We actively contribute to the development and deployment of industry standards. 5 Table of Contents We also have a strategic partnership with Green Hills Software, an industry leader in embedded safety and security software solutions. Product and Maintenance and Services Revenue Revenue, and revenue as a percentage of total revenue, from our product and maintenance and services offerings for the last three fiscal years were as follows: 2021 2020 2019 (In millions, except percentages) Product and maintenance $ 2,813 94 % $ 2,537 95 % $ 2,204 94 % Services 175 6 % 146 5 % 132 6 % Total revenue $ 2,988 $ 2,683 $ 2,336 In any fiscal year, we expect between 85% and 90% of our annual revenue to be characterized as recurring revenue. Revenue characterized as recurring includes revenue recognized over time from our software arrangements, services, royalties, maintenance on IP licenses and hardware, operating leases of hardware and revenue recognized at varying points in time over the term of our IP Access Agreements that include non-cancellable commitments from customers. The remainder of our revenue is recognized at a point in time and is characterized as up-front revenue. Up-front revenue is primarily generated by our sales of emulation and prototyping hardware and individual IP licenses. The percentage of our recurring and up-front revenue and fluctuations in revenue within our geographies are impacted by delivery of hardware and IP products to our customers in any single fiscal period. For additional information and analysis on our revenue, including revenue by geography, see the discussion under Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For our fiscal 2021 results of operations and our financial position as of January 1, 2022, see Part IV, Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. Remaining Performance Obligations Revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations represents the transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. We have elected to exclude the potential future royalty receipts from the remaining performance obligations. Contracted but unsatisfied performance obligations were approximately $4.4 billion as of January 1, 2022, which included $119.5 million of non-cancellable IPAA commitments from customers where actual product selection and quantities of specific products or services are to be determined by customers at a later date. As of January 1, 2022, we expected to recognize approximately 55% of the contracted but unsatisfied performance obligations, excluding non-cancellable IPAA commitments, as revenue