Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 27 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 45 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 45 Item 9B. Other Information 46 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 46 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 47 Item 11. Executive Compensation 47 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 47 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 47 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 47 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 48 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 93 Signatures 94 Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business This Annual Report and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report contain statements that are not historical in nature, are predictive, or that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or contain other forward-looking statements. Statements including, but not limited to, statements regarding the extent, timing and mix of future revenues and customer demand; the deployment of our products and services; the impact of the macroeconomic and geopolitical environment, including but not limited to, expanded trade control laws and regulations, conflicts in and around Ukraine, the Middle East and other areas of the world, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation and the rise in interest rates; the impact of government actions; future costs, expenses, tax rates and uses of cash; pending legal, administrative and tax proceedings; restructuring actions and associated charges and benefits; pending acquisitions, accounting for acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses; and other statements using words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, intends, may, plans, projects, should, targets, will and would, and words of similar import and the negatives thereof, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are predictions based upon our current expectations about future events. Actual results could vary materially as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to those expressed in these statements. Important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those identified in the Proprietary Technology, Competition, Risk Factors, Critical Accounting Estimates, Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Liquidity and Capital Resources sections contained in this Annual Report and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) filings. We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report are made only as of the date of this Annual Report. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. Overview Cadence is a leading pioneer of electronic system design software and intellectual property ( IP ), building upon more than 35 years of computational software expertise. Since our inception, we have been at the forefront of technology innovation, solving highly complex challenges in the semiconductor and electronic systems industries. We are a global company that provides computational software, special-purpose computational hardware, IP and services to multiple vertical sectors including automotive, artificial intelligence ( AI ), aerospace and defense, high-performance and mobile computing, hyperscalers, wireless communication, industrial internet of things ( IIoT ) and life sciences. Our solutions are integrated and used in every stage of design creation, implementation, verification, analysis and signoff from chips to printed circuit boards ( PCBs ) to complete electromechanical systems. Companies that design semiconductors and other electronic devices use our solutions to design, simulate, verify, signoff and manufacture every major type of semiconductor electronics including analog, mixed-signal, radio frequency ( RF ) and microwave devices, photonics, memory devices and digital chips for high-performance computing and AI, including central processing units ( CPUs ), graphics processing units ( GPUs ), neural processing units ( NPUs ), three-dimensional ( 3D ) integrated circuit ( 3D-IC ) and advanced package devices. These devices are used in multiple vertical sectors. Companies that design system-level products cover a broad range of vertical sectors including automotive, aerospace and defense systems, networking and communication systems, high-performance computing, cloud infrastructure and data centers, medical systems and health and life sciences. These companies use our solutions to design, simulate, verify and manufacture complete system products with the electronics included. Our offerings include software, hardware, services, and reusable IC design blocks, which are commonly referred to as IP. Our semiconductor customers use our offerings to design, configure, analyze, and verify integrated circuits ( ICs ). Additionally, customers license our IP, which accelerates their product development processes by providing pre-designed and verified circuit blocks for their ICs. Systems customers use our offerings to design, simulate, and verify the electro-thermal and physical functionality of their ICs, PCBs, and systems products. Some of our software offerings are used by pharmaceutical and biotech companies to help accelerate their drug discovery process. Business Strategy Our Intelligent System Design strategy allows us to deliver essential computational software, hardware and IP that our customers use to turn their design concepts into reality. Our customers include many of the world s most innovative companies that design and build highly sophisticated semiconductor and electronic systems found in products used in everyday life. Our Intelligent System Design strategy allows us to quickly adapt to our customers' dynamic design requirements. We develop industry-leading computational software and hardware, generative AI, and digital twin algorithms to help solve their toughest challenges. Our software and services enable our customers to produce products that meet their critical business goals including time-to-market, costs and productivity while meeting growing global environmental concerns including sustainability and carbon emissions. 1 Table of Contents The creation of even the most seemingly simple electronic systems and products that people use every day is a complex process and requires many highly-trained engineers with various areas of specialized knowledge and skill sets. Our ability to deliver products that keep up with increasing complexity allows our customers to be successful in meeting their business goals and objectives. Historically, the industry that provided the tools used by IC engineers was referred to as Electronic Design Automation ( EDA ). The pace of technical innovation in EDA has been driven by a concept known as Moore s Law, which more than 50 years ago predicted that the complexity of ICs would double approximately every 18-24 months. Today, our offerings include and extend beyond EDA to enable computational software for Intelligent System Design across three layers as illustrated below starting with semiconductor and silicon design excellence, followed by system innovation, and then pervasive intelligence. The foundation of design excellence for semiconductors is essential for our customers to produce best-in-class technology for custom IC, digital IC design and signoff, simulation and functional verification, and leverages pre-built semiconductor IP. These tools, IP and associated services are specifically designed to meet the growing requirements of engineers designing increasingly complex chips across analog, digital and mixed-signal domains, and perform the associated verification tasks, including validation of low-level software running on a digital twin of the silicon model. This enables design teams to manage complexity and verification throughput without increasing their team size or extending the project schedule, while reducing technical risks. The second layer of our strategy leverages our computational expertise, expanding our solutions into the physical analysis in system innovation. It includes tools and services used for system design of the packages that encapsulate the ICs, 3D-ICs and PCBs. Our technology covers system simulation analysis, including electromagnetic, electro-thermal, electromechanics, and other multiphysics analysis necessary as part of optimizing the full system s performance, radio frequency ( RF ) and microwave systems, and embedded software. We also leverage our computational software expertise to life sciences by offering biosimulation solutions. The third layer of our strategy addresses pervasive intelligence in new electronics. It starts with providing solutions and services to develop AI-enhanced systems and includes machine learning, deep learning and digital twin capabilities being added to the Cadence computational software and computational hardware portfolio to make IP and tools more automated and to produce optimized results faster. It also includes deploying generative AI techniques and LLMs to provide a rich set of co-pilots or design assistants to accelerate the design process. Our software and special-purpose hardware products also support cloud access to address the growing computational needs of our customers. Recent Acquisitions Consistent with our Intelligent System Design strategy, we completed several acquisitions since the beginning of fiscal 2023 that we believe enhance our talent, our technology portfolio and our ability to pursue attractive opportunities in the markets we serve. 2 Table of Contents During the second quarter of fiscal 2023, we acquired Pulsic, Ltd., a provider of floorplanning, placement and routing of custom IC software. This acquisition enhances our existing generative AI capabilities in Virtuoso Studio to solve advanced node challenges using intelligent AI-based physical design and virtual prototyping techniques. During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we acquired the Rambus SerDes and memory interface PHY IP assets from Rambus Inc. This acquisition broadens our enterprise IP portfolio in the design of AI, data center and hyperscale applications, as well as extends our expertise across multiple vertical sectors including automotive, aerospace and defense and consumer electronics, with the objective of providing broad subsystem solutions that meet the demands of our worldwide customers. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, we acquired Intrinsix Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of CEVA, Inc., and a provider of design engineering solutions focused on the U.S. aerospace and defense industry. This acquisition adds a highly skilled engineering team that has expertise in advanced nodes, radio frequency, mixed signal and security algorithms. In January 2024, we acquired Invecas, Inc., a leading provider of design engineering, embedded software and system-level solutions. This acquisition adds a skilled system design engineering team with expertise in providing custom solutions across chip design, product engineering, advanced packaging and embedded software. Business Drivers Our products and services enable our customers to design complex and innovative semiconductor and electronic systems that are accelerated by the trends of semiconductor companies designing electrical systems, systems companies designing semiconductors, the hyper-convergence between electrical and mechanical systems and generative AI. Demand for our technology and expertise is driven by increasing complexity and our customers need to invest in new designs and products that are highly differentiated. We believe the most promising new opportunities for us involve enabling the design of electronic systems for consumers, including digital twin, generative AI, augmented reality ( AR ), virtual reality ( VR ), IIoT, edge computing, hyperscale computing (including data center infrastructure), mobile, communications (including 5G networks), automotive, aerospace and defense, industrial subsystems, as well as the emerging opportunities in life sciences. Large and existing electronics categories, such as data center infrastructure, networking, mobile, smartphones and AI products, continue to provide business opportunities for us as customers initiate new design projects. Underlying the requirements within any particular vertical sector is the availability of rapidly improving IC manufacturing technology. In order for our customers to take advantage of such advancements, some of our products need to first incorporate new capabilities such that they can exploit new manufacturing capabilities. This dependency means that we must invest significantly in product research and development ( R D ) to keep pace with the latest manufacturing technology. The demand for new IC manufacturing technology directly impacts the demand for our newest products. Another driver for our business is the differentiation, capabilities and benefits provided to our customers by our products. With the rapid pace of innovation comes the opportunity for our products to address growing key challenges associated with the design of electronic products, such as power consumption, performance, chip area and cost. Our products and services have differentiated attributes that our customers value. In general, these attributes can be grouped into broader categories such as quality of results ( QoR ) (in terms of power consumption, performance and chip area), engineering productivity, tool performance, manufacturing, reliability and faster time to market. Many of these attributes contribute to sustainability initiatives by enabling our customers to create innovative products that optimize power, space and energy. Products and Product Categories Our Intelligent System Design strategy enables our customers to address a broad range of challenges that arise as they develop electronic products. Our solutions are categorized according to the role they play in the electronic product design process. We group our products into categories related to major design activities, including custom IC design and simulation, digital IC design and signoff, functional verification, IP, and system design and analysis. All of our product categories have generative AI solutions that augment the core product offering. Custom IC Design and Simulation Our custom IC design and simulation offerings are used by our customers to create schematic and physical representations of circuits down to the transistor level for analog, mixed-signal, custom digital, memory and RF designs. These representations are verified using simulation tools optimized for each type of design, including the design capture environment, simulation and IC layout within the Virtuoso custom IC design platform. Other tools in the custom IC portfolio are used to prepare the designs for manufacturing. The Virtuoso Advanced-Node Platform adds functionality to the base Virtuoso package to enable the use of 3D transistors ( FinFETs ), multi-patterning and other technologies required for advanced designs. The Virtuoso RF Solution addresses the challenges of RF design across chip, package and board. The Spectre Simulation Platform provides large-scale verification simulation. The Virtuoso System Design Platform enables engineers to design and verify concurrently across the chip, package and board. The Virtuoso Studio platform is our generative AI solution for custom IC and mixed-signal design and simulation that enables additional productivity, automation and quality of results throughout the entire design flow. 3 Table of Contents Digital IC Design and Signoff Our digital IC design and signoff solutions are used to create logical representations of a digital circuit or an IC that can be verified for correctness prior to implementation (please refer to the discussion under Functional Verification below). Once the logic is verified, the design representation is implemented, or converted to a format ready for silicon manufacturing, using additional software tools within this category. The manufacturing representation is also analyzed and verified. Our digital IC design and signoff technology suite provides a full flow to achieve power, performance and area ( PPA ) design targets, and includes three major categories: logic design, physical implementation and signoff. Our logic design offering is comprised of logic synthesis, test and equivalence checking capabilities and is typically used by customers to create and verify designs in conjunction with our functional verification capabilities. The offering includes the Genus Synthesis Solution, a logic synthesis offering that provides fast throughput while also offering high quality results, and the Joules RTL Power Solution, which delivers fast power analysis while preserving near-signoff accuracy. We also offer the Cadence Modus DFT Software Solution, which reduces SoC design-for-test time. Our physical implementation offering comprises tools used near the end of the design process, including place and route, optimization and multi-patterning preparation. The Innovus Implementation System is a physical implementation offering that delivers fast design turnaround time while also delivering improved PPA characteristics. This offering enables customers to address the technology challenges of the latest semiconductor advanced-process nodes, create a physical representation of logic models and prepare a design for signoff. Our signoff offering is comprised of tools used to sign off the design as ready for manufacture by a semiconductor foundry, which provides certification for this step. This offering includes the Tempus Timing Signoff Solution, Voltus Power Integrity Solution, Quantus Extraction Solution and Pegasus Physical Verification System. Our design-for-manufacturing products are also included in our signoff offering and are used by customers to address manufacturing and yield issues as early in the product development process as possible. Cadence Cerebrus is our generative AI solution that combines all elements of the full-flow IC through signoff that enables additional productivity, automation and improved quality of results throughout the entire design flow. Functional Verification Functional verification products are used by our customers to effectively and efficiently verify that the circuitry or the software they have designed is consistent with the functional specification. Verification is largely done throughout the design process, with the objective of identifying as many potential functional problems as possible before manufacturing the circuitry, thereby significantly reducing the risk of discovering a costly error in the completed product. Our Verification Suite includes four primary verification engines, starting with the JasperGold Formal Verification Platform and Xcelium Parallel Logic Simulation Platform, which are used in the early stages of design verification, often at the IP and subsystem level. Once the design is more mature, with early formal and simulation verification tasks performed, verification engineers deploy our Palladium Enterprise Emulation Platform and Protium field programmable gate arrays ( FPGA )-Based Prototyping Platforms for more comprehensive chip verification, often running low-level embedded software on top of a model of the chip, to ensure proper functionality before silicon manufacturing. These engines are used for early bug detection, verification of block-level functionality, verification acceleration and emulation of system-level functionality, system-level power exploration, analysis and optimization, and system-level prototyping for hardware/software co-verification. Our Palladium platform provides high throughput, capacity, data center reliability and workgroup productivity to enable global design teams to develop advanced hardware-software systems. The Protium platform leverages a common front end with the Palladium environment to move designs rapidly from emulation to the prototyping stage, allowing for software development to begin weeks to months earlier than otherwise possible. These engines are also supported by other verification tools that provide an environment that allows for effective verification throughput and management, including verification planning and metric tracking, testbench automation, debugging and software-driven tests, enabling our customers to coordinate verification activities across multiple verification engines, teams and locations for effective verification closure. Additionally, Verisium is our generative AI solution for multi-run verification that enables additional productivity, automation and quality of results throughout the entire verification flow. IP Our IP offerings consist of pre-verified, customizable functional blocks, which customers integrate into their ICs to accelerate the development process and to reduce the risk of errors in the design process. We offer many types of IP, including Tensilica configurable digital signal processors ( DSPs ), vertically targeted subsystems for AI, audio/voice, baseband and vision/imaging applications, controllers and physical interfaces for standard protocols and analog IP. Our design IP portfolio includes solutions for high speed SerDes, peripheral component interconnect ( PCI ), USB and many other standards. We also offer a broad range of Verification IP ( VIP ) with memory models, which model the expected behavior of many industry-standard protocols when used with verification solutions and are complementary to our design IP offerings. Our VIP and accelerated VIP are used with our full suite of functional verification engines to emulate and model the expected behavior and interaction of standard industry system interface protocols including DDR, USB and PCI Express in silicon. Our customers also use our System VIP offerings to perform full system-level chip verification. 4 Table of Contents System Design and Analysis Our system design and analysis offerings are used by our customers to develop PCBs and advanced IC packages and to analyze electromagnetic, electro-thermal and other multiphysics effects. The capabilities in the Allegro System Design Platform include PCB authoring and implementation, IC package and system-in-package design, signal and power integrity analysis, and PCB library design management and collaboration. The need for compact, high-performance mobile, consumer and automotive design with advanced serial interconnect is driving the technological evolution for our PCB offerings. For mainstream PCB customers, where individual or small team productivity is a focus, we provide the OrCAD family of offerings, which are primarily marketed worldwide through a network of resellers. The speed and close proximity of signals on silicon, through packages to boards, and through connectors and cables, exposes these communications to various kinds of interference, generates heat and emits electromagnetic radiation. Careful analysis is required for these systems to work as designed under a wide range of operating conditions and within compliance of standards and laws. The complexity of these devices and signal transmissions requires analysis and simulation throughout the product lifecycle to meet these objectives. Our Clarity 3D Solver for electromagnetic and power electronics analysis and simulation, as well as our Celsius Thermal Solver, provide the foundation for multiphysics analysis technology, with complete electrical-thermal co-simulation for electronic systems from ICs to physical enclosures. Our Fidelity CFD Software expands our ability to meet the growing design challenges of electronic and systems companies. Fidelity CFD is a physics-based analysis solution for mechanical design and complements the electronic system analysis portfolio. Our comprehensive suite of computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) solutions enables our customers to extend their multiphysics analysis workflows to address simulation and analysis challenges for applications such as aerodynamics, hydrodynamics, propulsion, turbomachinery, heat transfer and combustion. Our Millennium Multiphysics Enterprise Platform is an industry-first turnkey AI-enabled digital twin. Millennium M1 is the first release and overcomes traditional CFD speed/accuracy and compute resource limitations with a combination of GPU resident CFD solvers such as Fidelity LES for large eddy simulations ( LES ) and scalable high-performance hardware. Augmenting all our multiphysics analysis solutions is Optimality Intelligent System Explorer, an industry-first generative AI-driven multiphysics optimization solution that enables additional productivity, automation and quality of results throughout the entire analysis flow. Optimality Explorer breaks through the limitations of the conventional human-intensive optimization process and is designed to produce the optimal system design solution expeditiously and without compromising accuracy. An additional AI digital twin solution of our Data Center Design and Insight Platform brings physics-based design and analysis to the data center sector for performance-aware design and operational planning. Data center professionals can future-proof designs and assess operational decisions with this digital twin and empower designers, owners and operators to address the need for reliability, capacity and energy efficiency. We also offer molecular modeling and simulation solutions obtained through our acquisition of OpenEye Scientific Software in fiscal 2022. These solutions and services are used by a wide range of organizations in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors to accelerate the drug discovery process and make more informed decisions in the development of new therapeutics. Product Arrangements We primarily license our software using time-based licenses. Our time-based license arrangements offer customers the right to access and use all of the products delivered at the outset of an arrangement and updates throughout the entire term of the arrangement, which is generally two to three years, with no rights to return. Our updates provide continued access to our evolving technology as our customers designs migrate to more advanced nodes. In addition, certain time-based license arrangements include the right for the customer to remix among the products delivered at the outset of the arrangement and use unspecified additional products that become commercially available during the term of the arrangement. A small portion of our software is licensed under perpetual licenses, which does not include the right to use new technology. Payment terms for time-based licenses generally provide for payments to be made over the license period, and payment terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days. Our emulation and prototyping hardware products are either sold or leased to our customers. Our emulation hardware can also be accessed remotely via a Cadence-managed cloud arrangement. We generally license our design IP under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific designs. Some customers enter into non-cancelable commitments, whereby the customer commits to a fixed dollar amount over a specified period of time that can be used to purchase from a list of products or services. In addition, for certain IP license agreements, we collect royalties as our customers ship their product that includes our IP to their customers. For a further description of our license agreements, our emulation and prototyping hardware sale or lease agreements, revenue recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to the discussion under Critical Accounting Estimates under Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 5 Table of Contents Technical Support and Maintenance Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support and maintenance to facilitate their use of our software, hardware and IP solutions. Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are delivered online, app-based, or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers path to productivity in the use of our products. Services We offer a number of services, including services related to methodology, education and hosted design solutions. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the license