Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 35 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Reserved 36 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 79 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 80 Consolidated Balance Sheets 86 Consolidated Statements of Operations 87 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 88 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity 89 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 90 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 91 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 151 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 151 Item 9B. Other Information 151 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 151 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 151 Item 11. Executive Compensation 152 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 152 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 152 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 152 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 152 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 156 Signatures 157 Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 1 GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS The following is a list of common acronyms and terms we regularly use in our financial reporting: AACL Adjusted Allowance for Credit Losses ACL Allowance for Credit Losses: Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses plus Allowance for Unfunded Lending Commitments Acquisitions Refers to acquisitions including Willamette Management Associates, Inc. and JMP Group LLC AFS Available for Sale ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses ALM Asset and Liability Management AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) ARRC Alternative Reference Rates Committee ASU Accounting Standards Update ATM Automated Teller Machine Bank Holding Company Act The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 Board or Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. bps Basis Points Capital Plan Rule Federal Reserve Regulation Y Capital Plan Rule CARES Act The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CBNA Citizens Bank, National Association CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCB Capital Conservation Buffer CCMI Citizens Capital Markets, Inc. CECL Current Expected Credit Losses (ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments) CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 CEO Chief Executive Officer CET1 capital ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission Citizens or CFG or the Company, we, us, or our Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and its Subsidiaries CLO Collateralized Loan Obligation CLTV Combined Loan-to-Value CMO Collateralized Mortgage Obligation COVID-19 pandemic Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pandemic CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRE Commercial Real Estate DE I Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 EAD Exposure at Default Elevated cash Cash above targeted operating levels EPS Earnings Per Share ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ESPP Employee Stock Purchase Program Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 2 EVE Economic Value of Equity Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Fannie Mae (FNMA) Federal National Mortgage Association FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCA Financial Conduct Authority FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FFIEC Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council FHA Federal Housing Administration FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) FINRA Financial Industry Regulation Authority FRB or Federal Reserve Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and, as applicable, Federal Reserve Bank(s) Freddie Mac (FHLMC) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FTE Fully Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America GDP Gross Domestic Product GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 Ginnie Mae (GNMA) Government National Mortgage Association GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSE Government Sponsored Entity HSBC HSBC Bank U.S.A., N.A. HSBC branch acquisition Acquisition of 80 East Coast branches and national online business from HSBC HTM Held To Maturity ICE Intercontinental Exchange Investors Investors Bancorp, Inc. and its subsidiaries Investors acquisition agreement Citizens agreement and plan of merger, dated July 28, 2021, with Investors Bancorp, Inc. JMP JMP Group LLC Last-of-Layer Last-of-layer is a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk of a portfolio of similar prepayable assets whereby the last dollar amount within the portfolio of assets is identified as the hedged item LHFS Loans Held for Sale LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit LTV Loan to Value MBS Mortgage-Backed Securities MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mid-Atlantic District of Columbia, Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia Midwest Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio Modified AACL Transition The Day-1 CECL adoption entry booked on January 1, 2020 to ACL plus 25% of subsequent CECL ACL reserve build through December 31, 2021 Modified CECL Transition The Day-1 CECL adoption entry booked on January 1, 2020 to retained earnings plus 25% of subsequent CECL ACL reserve build through December 31, 2021 Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 3 MSRs Mortgage Servicing Rights NCOs Net charge-offs New England Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont NM Not meaningful NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control Operating Leverage Period-over-period percent change in total revenue, less the period-over-period percent change in noninterest expense OTC Over the Counter Parent Company Citizens Financial Group, Inc. (the Parent Company of Citizens Bank, National Association and other subsidiaries) PD Probability of Default peers or peer regional banks Comerica, Fifth Third, Huntington, KeyCorp, M T, PNC, Regions, Truist and U.S. Bancorp PPP The U.S. Small Business Administration s Paycheck Protection Program REIT Real estate investment trust ROTCE Return on Average Tangible Common Equity RPA Risk Participation Agreement RWA Risk-weighted Assets SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board SBA United States Small Business Administration SCB Stress Capital Buffer SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SVaR Stressed Value at Risk Tailoring Rules Rules establishing risk-based categories for determining prudential standards for large U.S. and foreign banking organizations, consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act TBAs To-Be-Announced Mortgage Securities TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach Tier 1 leverage ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by quarterly adjusted average assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach Total capital ratio Total capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and allowance for credit losses and qualifying subordinated debt that qualifies as tier 2 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach USDA United States Department of Agriculture VA United States Department of Veterans Affairs VaR Value at Risk VIE Variable Interest Entities Willamette Willamette Management Associates, Inc. Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 4 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements regarding potential future share repurchases and future dividends as well as the potential effects of the COVID-19 disruption on our business, operations, financial performance and prospects, are forward-looking statements. Also, any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement. These statements often include the words believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, goals, targets, initiatives, potentially, probably, projects, outlook, guidance or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as may, will, should, would, and could. Forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management, and on information currently available to management. Our statements speak as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update these statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events. We caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation: Negative economic and political conditions that adversely affect the general economy, housing prices, the job market, consumer confidence and spending habits which may affect, among other things, the level of nonaccrual assets, charge-offs and provision expense; The rate of growth in the economy and employment levels, as well as general business and economic conditions, and changes in the competitive environment; Our ability to implement our business strategy, including the cost savings and efficiency components, and achieve our financial performance goals, including through the integration of Investors and the HSBC branches; The COVID-19 disruption and its effects on the economic and business environments in which we operate; Our ability to meet heightened supervisory requirements and expectations; Liabilities and business restrictions resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations; Our capital and liquidity requirements under regulatory capital standards and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms; The effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; Changes in interest rates and market liquidity, as well as the magnitude of such changes, which may reduce interest margins, impact funding sources and affect the ability to originate and distribute financial products in the primary and secondary markets; The effect of changes in the level of checking or savings account deposits on our funding costs and net interest margin; Financial services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation that could have a negative effect on our revenue and businesses; A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors or other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks; An inability to complete the Investors acquisition, or changes in the current anticipated timeframe, terms or manner of such acquisition; Greater than expected costs or other difficulties related to the integration of our business and that of Investors and the relevant HSBC branches; The inability to retain existing Investors or HSBC clients and employees following the closing of the Investors and HSBC branch acquisitions; Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 5 The occurrence of any event change or other circumstance that could give rise to the right of one or both parties to terminate the agreement to acquire Investors; and Management s ability to identify and manage these and other risks. In addition to the above factors, we also caution that the actual amounts and timing of any future common stock dividends or share repurchases will be subject to various factors, including our capital position, financial performance, risk-weighted assets, capital impacts of strategic initiatives, market conditions and regulatory and accounting considerations, as well as any other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant in making such a determination. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares from or pay any dividends to holders of our common stock, or as to the amount of any such repurchases or dividends. Further, statements about the effects of the COVID-19 disruption on our business, operations, financial performance and prospects may constitute forward-looking statements and are subject to the risk that the actual impacts may differ, possibly materially, from what is reflected in those forward-looking statements due to factors and future developments that are uncertain, unpredictable and in many cases beyond our control, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, actions taken by governmental authorities in response to the pandemic, and the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our customers, third parties and us. Statements about the Investors and HSBC branch acquisitions also constitute forward-looking statements and are subject to the risk that actual results could be materially different from those expressed in those statements, including if the Investors transaction is not consummated in a timely manner or at all, or if integration of the acquisitions is more costly or difficult than expected. More information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under