Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 34 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 87 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 88 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 94 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 95 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 96 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 97 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 98 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 100 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 160 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 160 Item 9B. Other Information 160 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 160 Item 11. Executive Compensation 160 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 161 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 161 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 161 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 161 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 165 Signatures 166 Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 1 GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS The following is a list of common acronyms and terms we regularly use in our financial reporting: 2017 Tax Legislation An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018 (Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) ACL Allowance for Credit Losses Acquisitions Refers to acquisitions after second quarter 2018, including Franklin American Mortgage Company, Clarfeld Financial Advisors, LLC and Bowstring Advisors LLC AFS Available for Sale ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses ALM Asset and Liability Management AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) ASU Accounting Standards Update ATM Automated Teller Machine Bank Holding Company Act The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 Board or Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. bps Basis Points Capital Plan Rule Federal Reserve Regulation Y Capital Plan Rule CBNA Citizens Bank, National Association CBPA Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCB Capital Conservation Buffer CCMI Citizens Capital Markets, Inc. CECL Current Expected Credit Losses (ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments) CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission Citizens or CFG or the Company, we, us, or our Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and its Subsidiaries CLTV Combined Loan-to-Value CLO Collateralized Loan Obligation CMO Collateralized Mortgage Obligation CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRE Commercial Real Estate DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 EGRRCPA Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act EPS Earnings Per Share ESPP Employee Stock Purchase Program ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 FAMC Franklin American Mortgage Company FAMC acquisition The August 1, 2018 acquisition of Franklin American Mortgage Company Fannie Mae (FNMA) Federal National Mortgage Association FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 2 FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FFIEC Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) FINRA Financial Industry Regulation Authority FRB Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and, as applicable, Federal Reserve Bank(s) Freddie Mac (FHLMC) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FTE Fully Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America GDP Gross Domestic Product GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 Ginnie Mae (GNMA) Government National Mortgage Association GSE Government-Sponsored Enterprise HELOC Home Equity Line of Credit HTM Held To Maturity Last-of-Layer Last-of-layer is a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk of a portfolio of similar prepayable assets whereby the last dollar amount within the portfolio of assets is identified as the hedged item LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LHFS Loans Held for Sale LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit LTV Loan-to-Value MBS Mortgage-Backed Securities MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mid-Atlantic District of Columbia, Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia Midwest Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio MSA Metropolitan Statistical Area MSRs Mortgage Servicing Rights New England Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont NM Not meaningful NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other Comprehensive Income OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control Parent Company Citizens Financial Group, Inc. (the Parent Company of Citizens Bank, National Association and other subsidiaries) PD Probability of Default peers or peer regional banks BB T, Comerica, Fifth Third, KeyCorp, M T, PNC, Regions, SunTrust and U.S. Bancorp. Includes Truist for the period subsequent to the merger of BB T and SunTrust REITs Real Estate Investment Trusts ROTCE Return on Average Tangible Common Equity RPA Risk Participation Agreement Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 3 SBA Small Business Administration SBO Serviced by Others loan portfolio SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission SVaR Stressed Value-at-Risk TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach Tier 1 leverage ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by quarterly adjusted average assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach Total capital ratio Total capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and allowance for credit losses and qualifying subordinated debt that qualifies as tier 2 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach VaR Value-at-Risk VIE Variable Interest Entities Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 4 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements regarding potential future share repurchases and future dividends are forward-looking statements. Also, any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement. These statements often include the words believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, goals, targets, initiatives, potentially, probably, projects, outlook or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as may, will, should, would, and could. Forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management, and on information currently available to management. Our statements speak as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update these statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events. We caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation: Negative economic and political conditions that adversely affect the general economy, housing prices, the job market, consumer confidence and spending habits which may affect, among other things, the level of nonperforming assets, charge-offs and provision expense; The rate of growth in the economy and employment levels, as well as general business and economic conditions, and changes in the competitive environment; Our ability to implement our business strategy, including the cost savings and efficiency components, and achieve our financial performance goals; Our ability to meet heightened supervisory requirements and expectations; Liabilities and business restrictions resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations; Our capital and liquidity requirements (including under regulatory capital standards, such as the U.S. Basel III capital rules) and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms; The effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; Changes in interest rates and market liquidity, as well as the magnitude of such changes, which may reduce interest margins, impact funding sources and affect the ability to originate and distribute financial products in the primary and secondary markets; The effect of changes in the level of checking or savings account deposits on our funding costs and net interest margin; Financial services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation that could have a negative effect on our revenue and businesses; A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors or other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks; and Management s ability to identify and manage these and other risks. In addition to the above factors, we also caution that the actual amounts and timing of any future common stock dividends or share repurchases will be subject to various factors, including our capital position, financial performance, capital impacts of strategic initiatives, market conditions and regulatory and accounting considerations, as well as any other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant in making such a determination. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares from or pay any dividends to holders of our common stock, or as to the amount of any such repurchases or dividends. More information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under