Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 33 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Reserved 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 77 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 Consolidated Balance Sheets 84 Consolidated Statements of Operations 85 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 86 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity 87 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 88 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 90 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 153 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 153 Item 9B. Other Information 154 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 154 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 154 Item 11. Executive Compensation 154 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 155 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 155 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 155 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 155 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 159 Signatures 160 Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 1 GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND TERMS The following is a list of common acronyms and terms used regularly in our financial reporting: AACL Adjusted Allowance for Credit Losses ACL Allowance for Credit Losses: Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses plus Allowance for Unfunded Lending Commitments AFS Available for Sale ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses ALM Asset and Liability Management AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) ASU Accounting Standards Update ATM Automated Teller Machine Bank Holding Company Act The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 BHC Bank Holding Company Board or Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. bps Basis Points Capital Plan Rule Federal Reserve Regulation Y Capital Plan Rule CBNA Citizens Bank, National Association CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCB Capital Conservation Buffer CECL Current Expected Credit Losses (ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments) CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 CEO Chief Executive Officer CET1 capital ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach CFPB Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Citizens, CFG, the Company, we, us, or our Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and its Subsidiaries CLTV Combined Loan-to-Value CMO Collateralized Mortgage Obligation COVID Coronavirus Disease CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRE Commercial Real Estate DE I Diversity, Equity and Inclusion DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 EAD Exposure at Default EEO-1 report Mandatory report on workforce demographics submitted annually to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission EPS Earnings Per Share ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance ESPP Employee Stock Purchase Plan EVE Economic Value of Equity Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended Fannie Mae (FNMA) Federal National Mortgage Association FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCA Financial Conduct Authority Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 2 FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDM Financially Distressed Modification Federal Banking Regulators Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency FFIEC Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council FHA Federal Housing Administration FHC Financial Holding Company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) FINRA Financial Industry Regulation Authority FRB or Federal Reserve Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and, as applicable, Federal Reserve Bank(s) Freddie Mac (FHLMC) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FTE Fully Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing GAAP Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America GDP Gross Domestic Product GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 Ginnie Mae (GNMA) Government National Mortgage Association GSE Government Sponsored Entity HSBC HSBC Bank U.S.A., N.A. HSBC transaction Acquisition of HSBC East Coast branches and national online deposit business HTM Held To Maturity IDI Insured Depository Institution Investors Investors Bancorp, Inc. and its subsidiaries IPO Initial Public Offering of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. in 2014 JMP JMP Group LLC Last-of-Layer Last-of-layer is a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk of a portfolio of similar prepayable assets whereby the last dollar amount within the portfolio of assets is identified as the hedged item LHFS Loans Held for Sale LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit LTV Loan to Value M A Merger and Acquisition MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mid-Atlantic District of Columbia, Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia Midwest Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio Modified AACL transition The Day-1 CECL adoption entry booked to ACL plus 25% of subsequent CECL ACL reserve build Modified CECL transition The Day-1 CECL adoption entry booked to retained earnings plus 25% of subsequent CECL ACL reserve build MSRs Mortgage Servicing Rights New England Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont NM Not meaningful NMTC New Markets Tax Credit Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 3 NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) OFAC U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control Operating Leverage Period-over-period percent change in total revenue, less the period-over-period percent change in noninterest expense OTC Over the Counter Parent Company Citizens Financial Group, Inc. (the Parent Company of Citizens Bank, National Association and other subsidiaries) PCD Purchased Credit Deteriorated PD Probability of Default peers or peer regional banks Comerica, Fifth Third, Huntington, KeyCorp, M T, PNC, Regions, Truist and U.S. Bancorp PPP The U.S. Small Business Administration s Paycheck Protection Program REIT Real estate investment trust ROTCE Return on Average Tangible Common Equity RPA Risk Participation Agreement RWA Risk-Weighted Assets SBA United States Small Business Administration SCB Stress Capital Buffer SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SVaR Stressed Value at Risk TBAs To-Be-Announced Mortgage Securities TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach Tier 1 leverage ratio Tier 1 capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus non-cumulative perpetual preferred equity that qualifies as additional tier 1 capital, divided by quarterly adjusted average assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach TOP Tapping Our Potential Total capital ratio Total capital, which includes Common Equity Tier 1 capital, tier 1 capital and allowance for credit losses and qualifying subordinated debt that qualifies as tier 2 capital, divided by total risk-weighted assets as defined under the U.S. Basel III Standardized approach USDA United States Department of Agriculture VA United States Department of Veterans Affairs VaR Value at Risk VIE Variable Interest Entity Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 4 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement. These statements often include the words believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, goals, targets, initiatives, potentially, probably, projects, outlook, guidance or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as may, will, should, would, and could. Forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management, and on information currently available to management. Our statements speak as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update these statements or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future events. We caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation: Negative economic, business and political conditions, including as a result of the interest rate environment, supply chain disruptions, inflationary pressures and labor shortages, that adversely affect the general economy, housing prices, the job market, consumer confidence and spending habits; The general state of the economy and employment, as well as general business and economic conditions, and changes in the competitive environment; Our capital and liquidity requirements under regulatory standards and our ability to generate capital and liquidity on favorable terms; The effect of changes in our credit ratings on our cost of funding, access to capital markets, ability to market our securities, and overall liquidity position; The effect of changes in the level of commercial and consumer deposits on our funding costs and net interest margin; Our ability to implement our business strategy, including the cost savings and efficiency components, and achieve our financial performance goals, including the anticipated benefits of the Private Bank start-up investment and Investors acquisition; The effects of geopolitical instability, including the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, on economic and market conditions, inflationary pressures and the interest rate environment, commodity price and foreign exchange rate volatility, and heightened cybersecurity risks; Our ability to comply with heightened supervisory requirements and expectations; Liabilities and business restrictions resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations; The effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; Changes in interest rates and market liquidity, as well as the magnitude of such changes, which may reduce interest margins, impact funding sources and affect the ability to originate and distribute financial products in the primary and secondary markets; Financial services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation that could have a negative effect on our revenue and businesses; Environmental risks, such as physical or transition risks associated with climate change, and social and governance risks, that could adversely affect our reputation, operations, business, and customers; A failure in or breach of our compliance with laws, as well as operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors or other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks; and Management s ability to identify and manage these and other risks. Citizens Financial Group, Inc. | 5 In addition to the above factors, we also caution that the actual amounts and timing of any future common stock dividends or share repurchases will be subject to various factors, including our capital position, financial performance, capital impacts of strategic initiatives, market conditions, and regulatory considerations, as well as any other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant in making such a determination. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares from or pay any dividends to holders of our common stock, or as to the amount of any such repurchases or dividends. More information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under