Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C Cybersecurity 22 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Reserved 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69 Item 9B. Other Information 69 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 69 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 74 Signatures 75 2 Table of contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. ( C.H. Robinson, the company, we, us, or our ) is one of the largest global logistics companies in the world, with consolidated total revenues of $17.6 billion in 2023. We bring together customers, carriers, and suppliers to connect and grow supply chains. We are grounded in our customer promise to use our technology, which is built by and for supply chain experts and powered by our information advantage, to deliver smarter solutions and help navigate increasingly complex global supply chains. These global solutions, combined with the expertise of our people, deliver value from improved cost reductions and reliability to sustainability and visibility that our customers and carriers can rely on. In 2023, we handled approximat ely 19 million shipments and worked wi th more than 90,000 c ustomers. Operating throughout North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, South America, and the Middle East, we offer a global suite of multi-modal services that brings together the value of our expertise and account management services with custom technology differentiated by our unmatched data and scale. Our EDGE values are the core of our strategy and drive us to Evolve Constantly, Deliver Excellence, Grow Together, and Embrace Integrity. As one of the world s largest global logistics platforms, we solve logistics problems for companies across the globe and across industries, from simple to the most complex. We work closely with a wide variety of transportation companies and utilize those relationships to efficiently and cost-effectively arrange the transport of our customers freight. In 2023 , we processed approximately 19 million shipments and had $22 billion of freight under management. In 2023 , we had more than 450,000 contracted transportation companies around the world on our platform, including contracted motor carriers, railroads (primarily intermodal service providers), and ocean and air carriers. Our employees, technology, and product portfolio enable us to provide a differentiated experience, remain flexible, and provide solutions that optimize service for our customers. As an integral part of our transportation services, we also provide a wide range of value-added logistics services, such as freight consolidation, customs brokerage, supply chain consulting and analysis, emission analytics, optimization, and reporting. With the combination of our multimodal transportation management system and expertise, we use our information advantage to deliver smarter solutions for more than 90,000 customers and the more than 450,000 contract carriers on our platform. In addition to transportation and logistics services, we also provide sourcing services under the trade name Robinson Fresh ( Robinson Fresh ). Our sourcing services consist primarily of the buying, selling, and/or marketing of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other value-added perishable items. The foundation for much of our logistics expertise can be traced to this original business, founded in 1905, which gives us significant experience in handling produce and temperature-controlled commodities. We supply fresh produce through a network of independent produce growers and suppliers. Our customers include grocery retailers, restaurants, foodservice distributors, and produce wholesalers. In many cases, we also arrange the logistics and transportation of the products we sell and provide related supply chain services, such as replenishment, category management, and managed procurement services. We have developed proprietary brands of produce and have exclusive licensing agreements to distribute fresh and value-added produce under recognized consumer brand names. The produce for these brands is sourced through a preferred grower network and packed to order through contract packing agreements. We have instituted quality assurance and monitoring procedures with each of these preferred growers. Segment information. We have two reportable segments, North American Surface Transportation ( NAST ) and Global Forwarding, with our remaining operating segments reported as All Other and Corporate. The All Other and Corporate segment includes Robinson Fresh, Managed Services, Other Surface Transportation outside of North America, and other miscellaneous revenues and unallocated corporate expenses. See additional disclosure in Note 9, Segment Reporting , to our consolidated financial statements. NAST provides transportation and logistics services across North America through a network of offices in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. The primary services provided by NAST include truckload and less than truckload ( LTL ) transportation brokerage services. Global Forwarding provides transportation and logistics services through an international network of offices in North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, South America, and the Middle East and also contracts with independent agents worldwide. The primary services provided by Global Forwarding include ocean freight services, air freight services, and customs brokerage. Robinson Fresh provides sourcing services that primarily include the buying, selling, and/or marketing of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other value-added perishable items. Robinson Fresh sources products from around the world. 3 Table of contents Managed Services is primarily comprised of our TMC division, which offers Managed TMS ( Managed TMS ). Managed TMS combines the use of our global technology platform Navisphere ( Navisphere ), logistics process expertise, and consulting services in relation to the use of motor carriers and other transportation providers chosen by our customers. Customers can access Navisphere, logistics experts, and supply chain engineers to manage their day-to-day operations and optimize supply chain performance. Other Surface Transportation revenues are primarily earned by our Europe Surface Transportation operating segment. Europe Surface Transportation provides transportation and logistics services, including truckload and LTL transportation services, across Europe. Sales Transportation and Logistics Services C.H. Robinson provides freight transportation and related logistics and supply chain services. Our services range from commitments on a specific shipment to much more comprehensive and integrated relationships. We execute these services by investing in and retaining talented employees, developing innovative proprietary systems and processes, and utilizing a network of contracted transportation providers, including, but not limited to, contracted motor carriers, railroads, and ocean and air carriers. We make a profit that is driven by the value we provide our customers and the resulting difference between what we charge to our customers for the totality of services provided to them and what we pay to the transportation providers to transport the freight. We provide the following transportation and logistics services: Truckload: Through our contracts with motor carriers, we have access to dry vans, temperature-controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. Through the use of Navisphere, we connect our customers with contracted motor carriers that specialize in their transportation lanes and product types, and we help contracted motor carriers optimize the usage of their equipment. LTL: LTL transportation involves the shipment of single or multiple pallets of freight. We primarily focus on shipments of a single pallet or larger, although we handle any size shipment. Through our contracts with motor carriers and the use of Navisphere, we consolidate freight and freight information to provide our customers with a single source of information on their freight. In many instances, we consolidate partial shipments for several customers into full truckloads. Ocean: As a licensed Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier ( NVOCC ) and freight forwarder, we consolidate shipments, determine routing, select ocean carriers, contract for ocean shipments, and/or provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments. Air: As a certified Indirect Air Carrier ( IAC ) and freight forwarder, we organize air shipments and provide door-to-door service. Customs: Our customs brokers are licensed and regulated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other authoritative governmental agencies to assist importers and exporters in meeting regulatory and operational requirements governing imports and exports. Other Logistics Services: We provide intermodal transportation service, which is the shipment of freight in containers or trailers by a combination of truck and rail. In addition, we provide fee-based Managed Services, warehousing services, small parcel, and other services. Customers communicate their freight needs, typically on an order-by-order basis, to the C.H. Robinson team responsible for their account, either directly or through highly automated connections established between Navisphere and the customers' transportation management system. The C.H. Robinson team then ensures that all necessary information regarding each shipment is available in Navisphere. We utilize the information from Navisphere and other available sources to select the best contracted carrier based upon factors such as their service score, equipment availability, freight rates, and other relevant factors. Once the contracted carrier is selected, we receive the contracted carrier s commitment to provide the transportation. During the time when a shipment is executed, we connect frequently, either electronically or manually, with the contracted carrier to track the status of the shipment to meet the unique needs of our customers. For most of our transportation and logistics services, we are a service provider. By accepting the customer s order, we accept certain responsibilities for transportation of the shipment from origin to destination. The carrier s contract is with us, not the 4 Table of contents customer, and we are responsible for prompt payment of freight charges. In cases where we have agreed to pay for claims for damage to freight while in transit, we pursue reimbursement from the contracted carrier for the claims. In our Managed Services business, we are acting as the shipper s agent. In those cases, the carrier s contract is typically with the customer, and we collect a fee for our services. As a result of our logistics capabilities, our technology, our global suite of services, and available modes of transportation, some of our customers have us handle all, or a substantial portion, of their freight transportation requirements. Our employees price our services to provide a profit to us for the totality of services performed for the customer. Our services to the customer may be priced on a spot market, or transactional basis, or prearranged contractual rates. Most of our contractual rate commitments are for one year or less and allow for renegotiation. As is typical in the transportation industry, most of these contracts do not include specific volume commitments. When we enter into prearranged rate agreements for truckload services with our customers, we usually have fuel surcharge agreements that allow for fuel to primarily act as a pass-through cost, in addition to the underlying line-haul portion of the rate. We purchase most of our truckload services from our contracted truckload carriers on a spot market, or transactional basis, even when we are working with the customer on a contractual basis. In some cases, we may get advance commitments from one or more contracted motor carriers to transport contracted shipments for the length of our customer contract or to provide transportation services within dense transportation lanes. In those cases, where we have prearranged rates with contracted motor carriers, there is typically a calculated fuel surcharge based on a mutually agreed-upon formula. While providing day-to-day transportation services, our employees often identify opportunities for additional logistics services as they become more familiar with our customers daily operations and the nuances of our customers supply chains. We offer a wide range of logistics services on a global basis that reduce or eliminate supply chain inefficiencies. We analyze customers current transportation rate structures, modes of shipping, and carrier selection. We identify opportunities to consolidate shipments for cost savings. We suggest ways to improve operating and shipping procedures and manage claims. We help customers minimize storage through crossdocking and other flow-through operations. Many of these services are provided in connection with providing the transportation services based on the nature of the customer relationship. In addition to these transportation services, we may also provide a wide range of value-added logistics services, such as freight consolidation, customs brokerage, supply chain consulting and analysis, emission analytics, optimization, and reporting, for which we are usually paid separately. We have broadened our relationship with many of our customers through an emphasis on integrated logistics solutions, resulting in our management of a greater portion of their supply chains. We often serve our customers through specially created teams and through multiple locations. Our transportation and logistics services are provided to numerous international customers through our worldwide network. Transportation services accounted for approximately 95 percent of adjusted gross profits in 2023 and 97 percent of adjusted gross profits in 2022 and 2021. Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as total revenues less the total of purchased transportation and related services and the cost of purchased products sourced for resale. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . The table below shows our adjusted gross profits by transportation mode, for the years ended December 31 (in thousands): 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 Truckload $ 1,039,079 $ 1,561,310 $ 1,280,629 $ 1,071,873 $ 1,348,878 LTL 550,373 632,116 523,365 457,290 477,348 Ocean 420,883 729,839 711,223 350,094 308,367 Air 123,470 198,166 225,286 151,443 106,777 Customs 97,096 107,691 100,539 87,095 91,828 Other Logistics Services 255,735 251,547 210,958 195,159 149,664 Total $ 2,486,636 $ 3,480,669 $ 3,052,000 $ 2,312,954 $ 2,482,862 5 Table of contents Sourcing Since we were founded in 1905, we have been in the business of sourcing fresh produce. Much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and other perishable commodities. Because of its perishable nature, produce must be rapidly packaged, carefully transported within tight timetables, usually in temperature-controlled equipment, and quickly distributed to replenish high-turnover inventories maintained by our customers. In many instances, we consolidate an individual customer s produce orders into truckload quantities at the point of origin and arrange for transportation of the truckloads, often to multiple destinations. Our sourcing customer base includes grocery retailers, restaurants, foodservice distributors, and produce wholesalers. Our sourcing services include inventory forecasting and replenishment, brand management, and category development services. We have various national and regional branded produce programs, including both proprietary brands and nationally licensed brands. These programs contain a wide variety of high quality, fresh bulk, and value-added fruits and vegetables. These brands have expanded our market presence and relationships with many of our retail customers. We have also instituted quality assurance and monitoring programs as part of our branded and preferred grower programs. Sourcing accounted for approximately five percent of our adjusted gross profits in 2023 and three percent of our adjusted gross profits in 2022 and 2021. Customer Relationships We work to establish long-term relationships with our customers and to increase the amount of business done with each customer by providing them with a full range of logistics services and people on whom they can rely. During 2023, we served more than 90,000 customers worldwide, ranging from Fortune 100 companies to small businesses in a wide variety of industries. During 2023, our largest customer accounted for approximately two percent of our consolidated total revenues. In recent years, we have grown by adding new customers and by increasing our volumes with, and providing more services to, our existing customers. We seek additional business from existing customers and pursue new customers based on our knowledge of the marketplace, our unique information advantage, and the range of logistics services we can provide. We believe that our account management disciplines, expertise, and technology built by and for supply chain experts enable our employees to better serve our customers by combining a broad knowledge of logistics and market conditions with a deep, data-driven, understanding of the specific supply chain issues facing individual customers and certain industries. Markets and Resources Competition The transportation services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete against many logistics companies, including technology-based service companies, trucking companies, property freight brokers, carriers offering logistics services, NVOCCs, IACs, and freight forwarders. We also buy from and sell transportation services to companies that compete with us. In our sourcing business, we compete with produce brokers, produce growers, produce marketing companies, produce wholesalers, and foodservice buying groups. We also buy from and sell produce to companies that compete with us. 6 Table of contents We often compete with respect to price, scope of services, or a combination thereof, but believe that our most significant competitive advantages are: People and relationships: Our knowledgeable, dedicated, and empowered people act as an extension of our customers teams logistics experts they can rely on to innovate and execute their supply chain strategies. Our large number of unique, strong relationships provide global connections and valuable market knowledge; Global suite of services: A wide selection of services and products help provide our customers with consistent capacity and service levels; Scale: Our customers leverage our industry-leading capacity, broad procurement options, global data insights, and substantial shipment volumes for better efficiency, service, and marketplace advantages; Information, products, and technology: The combination of our global suite of services, unparalleled quantity of relationships, and scale provide us with an information advantage. We have one of the largest datasets of shipments, routings, and carriers in the world. We use our data and data analysts to drive smarter solutions and products for our customers. Navisphere, our proprietary technology, provides flexibility, global visibility, customized solutions, easy integration, broad connectivity, and advanced security; Network: Our combination of global capability, regional and local expertise, and scale gives our customers a strategic advantage in supply chain execution; Process: Proven processes and solutions combine strategy with practical experience for customized action plans that succeed in the real world; and Stability: Our customers and our contract carriers rely on us to support critical elements of their business. Our financial strength, discipline, and consistent track record of success are a key foundation of our ability to sustainably meet their needs. Proprietary Information Technology and Intellectual Property Most of our global network operates on a single global technology platform called Navisphere, which is used to match customer needs with supplier capabilities, to collaborate with other offices, and to utilize centralized support resources to complete all facets of the transaction. Our technology and software platform is essential to serve our customers and contracted carriers and to manage our business. In 2023, we executed approximately 19 million shipments for more than 90,000 customers utilizing the more than 450,000 contract carriers on our platform. Navisphere and our other operational systems help our employees service customer orders, select the optimal mode of transportation, build and consolidate shipments, identify appropriate carriers, and manage exceptions, all based on customer-specific service parameters. Our data estate and scale provide our organization with the business intelligence to support decision-making in all areas of our business. We have committed to investing in our technology to bring the value of technology, data, and analytics to our customers, help solve their most complex logistics challenges, and drive the industry forward. With approximately 900 data scientists, engineers, and developers, we are continuing to make smart, talent-focused investments globally in this critical area and building the next generation of tools and processes that will change how supply chains function. For example, some of the industry-first tools we launched include: Procure IQ , which uses algorithms built by our data scientists and the largest freight shipment dataset in the industry to show shippers the optimal way to purchase transportation in each of their shipping lanes; Emissions IQ , which gives shippers instant visibility into their carbon emissions and surfaces opportunities for reduction; and Market Rate IQ , which reveals the patterns in a shipper s spot freight that they could change to increase savings. Our operations primarily use Navisphere, our global, multimodal transportation management system that allows customers to communicate worldwide with parties in their supply chain across languages, currencies, and continents. Navisphere offers sophisticated business analytics, artificial intelligence, and data-driven tools to improve supply chain performance and meet incr easing customer demands, including the following: Navisphere Vision allows our customers to see their freight across all modes and services globally in a single view. Details of shipment contents, shipment status, disruptions to shipments, and resulting adjustments to estimated time of 7 Table of contents arrival using artifi cial intelligence are provided for the customer to manage their supply chain exceptions. Collaboration, intelligent notifications, and performance scorecards allow customers to manage their supply chain and identify inefficiencies. Navisphere Insight takes customers raw data about their freight and uses data science to turn the raw data into valuable insights, surfacing trends in transportation performance and spend that can be used for decision-making in real time or over time. Analysis is provided down to the shipment and order level. Navisphere Optimizer helps customers minimize the travel time, distance, and total miles of their freight, while maximizing their trailer utilization and savings. It is used during the transportation planning process and dynamically selects the right route with the right mode and right carrier on the right day. Navisphere is also integrated into 33 third-party transportation management systems and/or enterprise resource planning systems, allowing our dynamic pricing engine to directly deliver real-time quotes to customers when they have freight to be picked up or delivered. This eliminates the need for our customers to shop around and provides them an automated solution. The Navisphere Carrier ( Navisphere Carrier ) platform provides contracted motor carriers access to the functionality necessary to efficiently manage their relationships with C.H. Robinson. Contracted motor carriers can search and book available freight, provide online status updates, keep track of receivables, and upload scanned documentation. Many of our contracted motor carriers favorite features of Navisphere Carrier are also available through our Navisphere Carrier mobile application for Android and iOS mobile operating systems. Freightquote by C.H. Robinson ( Freightquote ) is a web-based, mobile-responsive offering designed to streamline the shipping process for small business customers, allowing the booking of freight without any shipping knowledge or expertise. Freightquote's small business customers can go online with their smart phone, tablet, or computer to book their LTL or truckload freight, track shipments, get proactive notifications, and pay for transportation services with a credit card. We rely on a combination of cybersecurity, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. Additionally, we have numerous registered trademarks, trade names, and logos in the U.S. and internationally. Our reliance on our intellectual property and proprietary technology subjects us to certain risks that, if realized, would negatively impact our operating results. For a description of such risks and their potential effect on our business, see Item 1A. of Part I, Risk Factors. Relationships with Transportation Providers We continually work on establishing contractual relationships with qualified transportation providers that meet both ours and our customers service requirements to provide dependable services, favorable pricing, and available capacity during periods when demand for transportation equipment is greater than the supply. We own very little transportation equipment and do not employ the people directly involved with the delivery of our customers freight, so these relationships are critical to our success. In 2023, more than 450,000 transportation providers were on our platform, the vast majority of which are contracted motor carriers. To strengthen and maintain our relationships with contracted motor carriers, our employees regularly communicate with them and try to assist them by increasing their equipment utilization, reducing their empty miles, and repositioning their equipment. To make it easier for contracted motor carriers to work with us, we have a policy of making contracted motor carrier invoice payments upon receipt of proof of delivery in accordance with our standard payment terms. For those contracted motor carriers that would like a faster payment, we also offer expedited payment upon receipt of proof of delivery in exchange for a discount, along with offering in-trip cash advances. Contracted motor carriers provide access to dry vans, temperature-controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. These contracted motor carriers are of all sizes, including owner-operators of a single truck, small and mid-size fleets, private fleets, and the largest national trucking companies. Consequently, we are not dependent on any one contracted motor carrier. In 2023, our largest truck transportation provider was less than one percent of our total cost of transportation, and contracted motor carriers that had fewer than 100 trucks transported approximately 74 percent of our truckload shipments. Every U.S. and Canadian motor carrier we do business with is required to execute a contract that establishes the motor carrier is acting as an independent contractor. At the time the contract is executed, and thereafter, through subscriptions with a third-party service, we confirm that each U.S. contracted motor carrier is properly licensed and insured, has the necessary federally-issued authority to provide transportation services, and can provide the necessary level of service on a dependable basis. Our motor carrier contracts require that the contracted motor carrier issue invoices only to, and accept payment solely from, us for the shipments that they transport under their contract with us and allow us to withhold payment to satisfy previous claims or shortages. Our standard 8 Table of contents contracts do not include volume commitments, and typically, the initial contract rate is modified each time we confirm an individual shipment with a contracted motor carrier. In our NVOCC ocean transportation business, we have contracts with most of the major ocean carriers, which support a variety of service and rate needs for our customers. We negotiate annual contracts that establish the predetermined rates we agree to pay the ocean carriers. The rates are negotiated based on expected volumes from our customers in specific trade lanes. These contracts are often amended throug