Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 22 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 Item 9B. Other Information 66 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 67 Item 11. Executive Compensation 67 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 67 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 68 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 68 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 68 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 70 Signatures 71 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. ( C.H. Robinson, the company, we, us, or our ) is one of the largest third party logistics companies in the world with consolidated total revenues of $15.3 billion in 2019. We provide freight transportation services and logistics solutions to companies of all sizes in a wide variety of industries. During 2019, we handled approximately 18 million shipments and worked with more than 119,000 customers. We operate through a network of offices in North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America. We have developed global transportation and distribution networks to provide transportation and supply chain services worldwide. As a result, we have the capability of facilitating most aspects of the supply chain on behalf of our customers. We have two reportable segments: North American Surface Transportation ( NAST ) and Global Forwarding, with our remaining operating segments reported under All Other and Corporate. For financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to Note 9, Segment Reporting , of our consolidated financial statements. As a third party logistics provider, we enter into contractual relationships with a wide variety of transportation companies and utilize those relationships to efficiently and cost-effectively arrange the transport of our customers freight. We utilized approximately 78,000 contracted transportation companies, including contracted motor carriers, railroads (primarily intermodal service providers), and air and ocean carriers in 2019. Depending on the needs of our customers and their supply chain requirements, we select and hire the appropriate mode of transportation for each shipment. Our model enables us to be flexible and provide solutions that optimize service for our customers. As an integral part of our transportation services, we may also provide a wide range of value-added logistics services, such as freight consolidation, customs brokerage, supply chain consulting and analysis, optimization, and reporting. In addition to transportation and logistics services, we provide sourcing services under the trade name Robinson Fresh ( Robinson Fresh ). Our sourcing services consist primarily of the buying, selling, and/or marketing of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other value-added perishable items. This was our original business when we were founded in 1905. The foundation for much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and temperature controlled commodities. We supply fresh produce through a network of independent produce growers and suppliers. Our customers include grocery retailers, restaurants, foodservice distributors, and produce wholesalers. In many cases, we also arrange the logistics and transportation of the products we sell and provide related supply chain services, such as replenishment, category management, and managed procurement services. We have developed proprietary brands of produce and have exclusive licensing agreements to distribute fresh and value-added produce under recognized consumer brand names. The produce for these brands is sourced through a preferred grower network and packed to order through contract packing agreements. We have instituted quality assurance and monitoring procedures with each of these preferred growers. Our flexible business model has been the main driver of our historical results, and we believe it has positioned us for continued growth. One of our competitive advantages is our network of offices. Our employees are in close proximity to both customers and transportation providers, which gives them broad knowledge of their local markets and enables them to respond quickly to customers and transportation providers changing needs. Employees act as a team in their sales efforts, customer service, and operations. A significant portion of most employees compensation is performance-oriented, based on profitability and their contributions to the success of the company. We believe this makes our employees more service-oriented and focused on driving growth and maximizing team productivity. Our network of offices work together to meet our customers needs and cross-sell our services. For large, multi-location customers, we often coordinate our efforts in global account centers or in one office and rely on multiple offices to deliver specific geographic or modal needs. Most of our global network operates on a single global technology platform called Navisphere that is used to match customer needs with supplier capabilities, to collaborate with other offices, and to utilize centralized support resources to complete all facets of the transaction. We have grown primarily through internal growth by increasing market share through the addition of new customers and expanding relationships with our current customers, adding new services, expanding our market presence and operations globally, hiring additional employees, and leveraging our technology. We continually look to grow through selective acquisitions. In February 2019, we acquired The Space Cargo Group ( Space Cargo ), a provider of international freight forwarding, customs brokerage, and other logistics services to expand our offerings in Spain and Colombia. Space Cargo operates in our Global Forwarding operating segment. 3 Table of Contents In January 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Prime Distribution Services, a leading provider of retail consolidation services in North America, for approximately $225 million in cash. The agreement is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. In May 2019, we acquired Dema Service S.p.A. ( Dema Service ), a provider of European road transportation to expand our offerings primarily in Italy. Dema Service operates in our European Surface Transportation operating segment. In August 2017, we acquired Milgram Company Ltd. ( Milgram ), a provider of freight forwarding, customs brokerage, and surface transportation, to strengthen our freight forwarding and customs brokerage offerings in Canada. Milgram operates primarily in our Global Forwarding operating segment. Transportation and Logistics Services C.H. Robinson provides freight transportation and related logistics and supply chain services. Our services range from commitments on a specific shipment to much more comprehensive and integrated relationships. We execute these service commitments by investing in and retaining talented employees, developing innovative proprietary systems and processes, and utilizing a network of contracted transportation providers, including, but not limited to, contracted motor carriers, railroads, and air and ocean carriers. We make a profit driven by the value we provide our customers and the resulting difference between what we charge to our customers for the totality of services provided to them and what we pay to the transportation providers to handle or transport the freight. While industry definitions vary, given our extensive contracting to create a flexible network of solutions, we are generally referred to in the industry as a third party logistics company. We provide the following transportation and logistics services: Truckload: Through our contracts with motor carriers, we have access to dry vans, temperature controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. We connect our customers with contracted motor carriers who specialize in their transportation lanes and product types, and we help contracted motor carriers optimize the usage of their equipment. Less than Truckload ( LTL ): LTL transportation involves the shipment of single or multiple pallets of freight. We primarily focus on shipments of a single pallet or larger, although we handle any size shipment. Through our contracts with motor carriers and use of Navisphere, we consolidate freight and freight information to provide our customers with a single source of information on their freight. In many instances, we will consolidate partial shipments for several customers into full truckloads. Intermodal: Our intermodal transportation service is the shipment of freight in trailers or containers by a combination of truck and rail. We have intermodal marketing agreements with container owners and all Class 1 railroads in North America, and we arrange local pickup and delivery (known as drayage) through local contracted motor carriers. In addition, we own approximately 1,500 and lease approximately 1,100 intermodal containers. Ocean: As a non-vessel ocean common carrier ( NVOCC ) and freight forwarder, we consolidate shipments, determine routing, select ocean carriers, contract for ocean shipments, and/or provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments. Air: As a certified Indirect Air Carrier ( IAC ) and freight forwarder, we organize air shipments and provide door-to-door service. Customs: Our customs brokers are licensed and regulated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other authoritative governmental agencies to assist importers and exporters in meeting legal requirements governing imports and exports. Other Logistics Services: We provide fee-based managed services, warehousing services, small parcel, and other services. Customers communicate their freight needs, typically on an order-by-order basis, to the C.H. Robinson team responsible for their account. The team ensures that all necessary information regarding each shipment is available in Navisphere. This information is received electronically by Navisphere from the customers' system, entered by our employees into Navisphere, or by the customer through our web tools. We utilize the information from Navisphere and other available sources to select the best contracted carrier based upon factors such as their service score, equipment availability, freight rates, and other relevant factors. 4 Table of Contents Once the contracted carrier is selected, we receive the contracted carrier s commitment to provide the transportation. During the time when a shipment is executed, we connect frequently, either electronically or manually, with the contracted carrier to track the status of the shipment to meet the unique needs of our customers. For most of our transportation and logistics services, we are a service provider. By accepting the customer s order, we accept certain responsibilities for transportation of the shipment from origin to destination. The carrier s contract is with us, not the customer, and we are responsible for prompt payment of freight charges. In the cases where we have agreed (either contractually or otherwise) to pay for claims for damage to freight while in transit, we pursue reimbursement from the contracted carrier for the claims. In our managed services business, we are acting as the shipper s agent. In those cases, the carrier s contract is typically with the customer, and we collect a fee for our services. As a result of our logistics capabilities, some of our customers have us handle all, or a substantial portion, of their freight transportation requirements. Our employees price our services to provide a profit to us for the totality of services performed for the customer. Our services to the customer may be priced on a spot market, or transactional basis, or prearranged contractual rates. Most of our contractual rate commitments are for one year or less and allow for renegotiation. As is typical in the transportation industry, most of these contracts do not include specific volume commitments. When we enter into prearranged rate agreements for truckload services with our customers, we usually have fuel surcharge agreements which allow for fuel to primarily act as a pass-through cost, in addition to the underlying line-haul portion of the rate. We purchase most of our truckload services from our contracted truckload carriers on a spot market, or transactional basis, even when we are working with the customer on a contractual basis. In a small number of cases, we may get advance commitments from one or more contracted motor carriers to transport contracted shipments for the length of our customer contract. In those cases, where we have prearranged rates with contracted motor carriers, there is a calculated fuel surcharge based on a mutually agreed-upon formula. While providing day-to-day transportation services, our employees often identify opportunities for additional logistics services as they become more familiar with our customers daily operations and the nuances of our customers supply chains. We offer a wide range of logistics services on a global basis that reduce or eliminate supply chain inefficiencies. We analyze customers current transportation rate structures, modes of shipping, and carrier selection. We identify opportunities to consolidate shipments for cost savings. We suggest ways to improve operating and shipping procedures and manage claims. We help customers minimize storage through crossdocking and other flow-through operations. Many of these services are provided in connection with providing the transportation services based on the nature of the customer relationship. In addition to these transportation services, we may provide additional logistics services, such as contract warehousing, consulting, transportation management, and other services, for which we are usually paid separately. We have broadened our relationship with many of our customers through an emphasis on integrated logistics solutions resulting in us managing a greater portion of their supply chains. We often serve our customers through specially created teams and through multiple locations. Our transportation and logistics services are provided to numerous international customers through our worldwide network. Transportation services accounted for approximately 96 percent of net revenues in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 95 percent in 2017. Net revenues are a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as total revenues less the total of purchased transportation and related services and the cost of purchased products sourced for resale. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . The table below shows our net revenues by transportation mode, for the years ended December 31 (in thousands): 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Truckload $ 1,348,878 $ 1,445,916 $ 1,229,999 $ 1,257,191 $ 1,316,533 LTL 477,348 471,275 407,012 381,817 360,706 Intermodal 27,670 32,469 29,145 33,482 41,054 Ocean 308,367 312,952 290,630 244,276 223,643 Air 106,777 120,540 100,761 82,167 79,096 Customs 91,828 88,515 70,952 50,509 43,929 Other Logistics Services 121,994 122,077 117,117 105,369 82,548 Total $ 2,482,862 $ 2,593,744 $ 2,245,616 $ 2,154,811 $ 2,147,509 5 Table of Contents Sourcing Since we were founded in 1905, we have been in the business of sourcing fresh produce. Much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and other perishable commodities. Because of its perishable nature, produce must be rapidly packaged; carefully transported within tight timetables, usually in temperature controlled equipment; and quickly distributed to replenish high-turnover inventories maintained by our customers. In many instances, we consolidate an individual customer s produce orders into truckload quantities at the point of origin and arrange for transportation of the truckloads, often to multiple destinations. Our sourcing customer base includes grocery retailers, restaurants, foodservice distributors, and produce wholesalers. Our sourcing services include inventory forecasting and replenishment, brand management, and category development services. We have various national and regional branded produce programs, including both proprietary brands and nationally licensed brands. These programs contain a wide variety of high quality, fresh bulk, and value added fruits and vegetables. These brands have expanded our market presence and relationships with many of our retail customers. We have also instituted quality assurance and monitoring programs as part of our branded and preferred grower programs. Sourcing accounted for approximately four percent of our net revenues in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and five percent in 2017. Organization Segment information. We have two reportable segments: NAST and Global Forwarding with our remaining operating segments reported as All Other and Corporate. The All Other and Corporate segment includes Robinson Fresh, Managed Services, Other Surface Transportation outside of North America, and other miscellaneous revenues and unallocated corporate expenses. See additional disclosure in Note 9, Segment Reporting , to our consolidated financial statements. NAST provides freight transportation services across North America through a network of offices in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. The primary services provided by NAST are truckload, LTL, and intermodal. Global Forwarding provides global logistics services through an international network of offices in North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America; and also contracts with independent agents worldwide. The primary services provided by Global Forwarding include ocean freight services, air freight services, and customs brokerage. All Other and Corporate primarily consists of Robinson Fresh, Managed Services and Other Surface Transportation outside of North America. Robinson Fresh provides sourcing services which primarily include the buying, selling, and marketing of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other perishable items. Robinson Fresh sources products from around the world. Managed Services is primarily comprised of our TMC division which offers Managed TMS . Managed TMS combines the use of Navisphere, logistics process expertise, and consulting services in relation to the use of motor carriers chosen by our customers. Customers can access Navisphere, logistics experts, and supply chain engineers to manage their day-to-day operations and optimize supply chain performance. Other Surface Transportation revenues are primarily earned by our Europe Surface Transportation operating segment. Europe Surface Transportation provides services similar to NAST across Europe. Office Network. To keep us close to our customers and markets, we operate through a network of offices in North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America. Our employees are responsible for developing new business, negotiating and pricing services, receiving and processing service requests from customers, and negotiating with carriers to provide the transportation requested. In addition to routine transportation, employees are often called upon to handle customers unusual, seasonal, and emergency needs. We have developed complex proprietary pricing algorithms that guide our employees regarding establishing competitive pricing with our customers and contracted motor carriers based on the unique characteristics of each customer's shipment. Employees typically rely on expertise in other offices when contracting and executing truckload, LTL, intermodal, ocean and air shipments. Multiple network offices often also work together to service larger, global accounts where the expertise and resources of more than one office are required to meet the customer s needs. Their efforts are usually coordinated by one lead office on the account. Network Employees. Employees are generally specialized into roles on new customer sales opportunities, account managing existing customer relationships, managing contracted carrier/supplier relationships for procuring capacity, or ongoing service and operations of shipments. Customer sales opportunities are identified through our internal database, referrals from current customers, leads generated by people through knowledge of their local and regional markets, company marketing efforts, and 6 Table of Contents access to transportation industry shipment databases. Employees who are responsible for recruiting new motor carriers refer them to our centralized carrier services group to confirm they are properly licensed and insured, have acceptable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration ( FMCSA ) issued safety ratings, and will enter into a contract for transportation services with C.H. Robinson. Working with their regional or divisional leaders, each team makes hiring and staffing decisions, based on balancing business needs with personnel investment and meeting targeted productivity and profitability goals. Because the quality of our employees is essential to our success, we are highly selective in our recruiting and hiring. To support our hiring processes, we have a corporate talent acquisition team that develops a pipeline of qualified candidates that managers can draw from. Our applicants typically have college degrees, and may have some business experience, although not necessarily within the transportation industry. Our employees go through centralized onboarding that emphasizes development of the skills necessary to become productive employees, including technology training on our proprietary systems and our customer service philosophy. Centralized training is followed by ongoing, on-the-job training. Compensation programs include performance-based metrics and cash incentives directly tied to productivity and performance. A significant portion of network management compensation is dependent on the growth and profitability of their team. They are paid a performance-based bonus, which is measured based on balanced growth in top and bottom line performance of the team they represent for that calendar year. The percentage they can potentially earn is predetermined in an annual bonus contract and is based on their role and the overall success of the team. All of our managers and certain other employees who have significant responsibilities are eligible to receive equity awards because we believe these awards are an effective tool for creating long-term ownership and alignment between employees and our shareholders. Generally, these awards are eligible to vest over five-year periods and may also include financial performance-based requirements for management employees. Employees benefit both through the growth and profitability of their team and by achieving individual goals. They are motivated by the opportunity to advance in a variety of career paths, including management, corporate sales, and customer and carrier account management. Shared Services. Our network offices are supported by our shared and centralized services. Approximately 12 percent of our employees provide shared services in centralized centers. Over 55 percent of these shared services employees are technology personnel who enhance and maintain our proprietary operating system software and our technology infrastructure. Customer Relationships We work to establish long-term relationships with our customers and to increase the amount of business done with each customer by providing them with a full range of logistics services. During 2019, we served over 119,000 customers worldwide, ranging from Fortune 100 companies to small businesses in a wide variety of industries. During 2019, our largest customer accounted for approximately two percent of total revenues. In recent years, we have grown by adding new customers and by increasing our volumes with, and providing more services to, our existing customers. We seek additional business from existing customers and pursue new customers based on our knowledge of the marketplace and the range of logistics services that we can provide. We believe that our account management disciplines, expertise and technology enable our employees to better serve our customers by combining a broad knowledge of logistics and market conditions with a deep understanding of the specific supply chain issues facing individual customers and certain vertical industries. With the guidance of our executive and shared services teams, offices are given significant latitude to pursue opportunities and to commit our resources to serve our customers. Relationships with Transportation Providers We continually work on establishing contractual relationships with qualified transportation providers that also meet both ours and our customers service requirements to provide dependable services, favorable pricing, and available capacity during periods when demand for transportation equipment is greater than the supply. We own very little transportation equipment and do not employ the people directly involved with the delivery of our customers freight, so these relationships are critical to our success. In 2019, we worked with approximately 78,000 transportation providers worldwide, of which the vast majority are contracted motor carriers. To strengthen and maintain our relationships with contracted motor carriers, our employees regularly communicate with contracted motor carriers and try to assist them by increasing their equipment utilization, reducing their 7 Table of Contents empty miles, and repositioning their equipment. To make it easier for contracted motor carriers to work with us, we have a policy of contracted motor carrier invoice payment upon receipt of proof of delivery in accordance with our standard payment terms. For those contracted motor carriers who would like a faster payment, we also offer expedited payment upon receipt of proof of delivery in exchange for a discount, along with offering in-trip cash advances. Contracted motor carriers provide access to dry vans, temperature controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. These contracted motor carriers are of all sizes, including owner-operators of a single truck, small and mid-size fleets, private fleets, and the largest national trucking companies. Consequently, we are not dependent on any one contracted motor carrier. Our largest truck transportation provider was less than two percent of our total cost of transportation in 2019. Contracted motor carriers that had fewer than 100 tractors transported approximately 81 percent of our truckload shipments in 2019. Every United States and Canadian motor carrier with which we do business with is required to execute a contract that establishes that the motor carrier is acting as an independent contractor. At the time the contract is executed, and thereafter, through subscriptions with a third party service, we confirm that each United States contracted motor carrier is properly licensed and insured, has the necessary federally-issued authority to provide transportation services, and can provide the necessary level of service on a dependable basis. Our motor carrier contracts require that the contracted motor carrier issue invoices only to and accept payment solely from us for the shipments that they transport under their contract with us and allow us to withhold payment to satisfy previous claims or shortages. Our standard contracts do not include volume commitments, and typically the initial contract rate is modified each time we confirm an individual shipment with a contracted motor carrier. We also have intermodal marketing agreements with container owners and all Class 1 railroads in North America, giving us access to additional trailers and containers. Our contracts with railroads specify the transportation services and payment terms by which our intermodal shipments are transported by rail. Intermodal transportation rates are typically negotiated between us and the railroad on a customer-specific basis. We own approximately 1,500 53-foot containers and lease approximately 1,100 containers. We believe that these containers have helped us better serve our customers, and we will continue to analyze the strategy of controlling containers. In our NVOCC ocean transportation business, we have contracts with most of the major ocean carriers, which support a variety of service and rate needs for our customers. We negotiate annual contracts that establish the predetermined rates we agree to pay the ocean carriers. The rates are negotiated based on expected volumes from our customers in specific trade lanes. These contracts are often amended throughout the year to reflect changes in market conditions for our business, such as additional trade lanes. We operate both as a consolidator and as a transactional IAC in the United States and internationally. We select air carriers and provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments. We execute our air freight services through our relationships with air carriers, through charter services, block space agreements, capacity space agreements, and transactional spot market negotiatio