Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 17 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6 [Reserved] 28 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B Other Information 44 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdiction that Prevent Inspections 44 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 45 Item 11 Executive Compensation 45 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 45 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 45 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 45 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 46 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 46 Signatures S- 1 Exhibit Index E- 1 This annual report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2021. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows us to incorporate by reference information that we file with the SEC, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this annual report. In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this annual report. In this annual report, Charter, we, us and our refer to Charter Communications, Inc. and its subsidiaries. i CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This annual report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), regarding, among other things, our plans, strategies and prospects, both business and financial including, without limitation, the forward-looking statements set forth in Part I. Item 1. under the heading Business and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this annual report. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, without limitation, the factors described in Part I. Item 1A. under Risk Factors and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this annual report. Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, will, may, intend, estimated, aim, on track, target, opportunity, tentative, positioning, designed, create, predict, project, initiatives, seek, would, could, continue, ongoing, upside, increases, grow, focused on and potential, among others. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make in this annual report are set forth in this annual report and in other reports or documents that we file from time to time with the SEC, and include, but are not limited to: our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering Internet, video, voice, mobile, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our service areas and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures; the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, digital subscriber line ( DSL ) providers, fiber to the home providers and providers of video content over broadband Internet connections; general business conditions, unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector and economic uncertainty or downturn, including the impacts of the Novel Coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic to sales opportunities from residential move activity, our customers, our vendors and local, state and federal governmental responses to the pandemic; our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents and distribution requirements); our ability to develop and deploy new products and technologies including consumer services and service platforms; any events that disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and impair our operating activities or our reputation; the effects of governmental regulation on our business including subsidies to consumers, subsidies and incentives for competitors, costs, disruptions and possible limitations on operating flexibility related to, and our ability to comply with, regulatory conditions applicable to us; the ability to hire and retain key personnel; our ability to procure necessary services and equipment from our vendors in a timely manner and at reasonable costs; the availability and access, in general, of funds to meet our debt obligations prior to or when they become due and to fund our operations and necessary capital expenditures, either through (i) cash on hand, (ii) free cash flow, or (iii) access to the capital or credit markets; and our ability to comply with all covenants in our indentures and credit facilities, any violation of which, if not cured in a timely manner, could trigger a default of our other obligations under cross-default provisions. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. We are under no duty or obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report. ii PART I Item 1. Business. Introduction We are a leading broadband connectivity company and cable operator serving more than 32 million customers in 41 states through our Spectrum brand. Over an advanced high-capacity, two-way telecommunications network, we offer a full range of state-of-the-art residential and business services including Spectrum Internet , TV, Mobile and Voice. For small and medium-sized companies, Spectrum Business delivers the same suite of broadband products and services coupled with special features and applications to enhance productivity, while for larger businesses and government entities, Spectrum Enterprise provides highly customized, fiber-based solutions. Spectrum Reach delivers tailored advertising and production for the modern media landscape. We also distribute award-winning news coverage, sports and high-quality original programming to our customers through Spectrum Networks and Spectrum Originals. Our network, which we own and operate, passes over 54 million households and small and medium businesses ("SMBs") across the United States. Our core strategy is to use our network to deliver high quality products at competitive prices, combined with outstanding customer service. This strategy, combined with simple, easy to understand pricing and packaging, is central to our goal of growing our customer base while selling more of our core connectivity services, which include both fixed and mobile Internet, video and voice services, to each customer. We execute this strategy by managing our operations in a consumer-friendly, efficient and cost-effective manner. Our operating strategy includes insourcing nearly all of our customer care and field operations workforces, which results in higher quality customer service. While an insourced operating model can increase the field operations and customer care costs associated with individual service transactions, the higher quality nature of insourced labor service transactions significantly reduces the volume of service transactions per customer, more than offsetting the higher investment made in each insourced service transaction. As we reduce the number of service transactions and recurring costs per customer relationship, we continue to provide our customers with products and prices that we believe provide more value than what our competitors offer. The combination of offering high quality, competitively priced products and outstanding service, allows us to both increase the number of customers we serve over our fully deployed network, and to increase the number of products we sell to each customer. This combination also reduces the number of service transactions we perform per relationship, yielding higher customer satisfaction and lower customer churn, resulting in lower costs to acquire and serve customers and greater profitability. We have enhanced our service operations to allow our customers to (1) more frequently interact with us through our customer website and My Spectrum application, online chat and social media, (2) have their services installed at the time and in the manner of their own choosing, including self-installation, and (3) receive a variety of video packages on an increasing number of connected devices including those owned by us and those owned by the customer. By offering our customers growing levels of choices in how they receive and install their services and how they interact with us, we are driving higher overall levels of customer satisfaction and reducing our operating costs and capital expenditures per customer relationship. Ultimately, our operating strategy enables us to offer high quality, competitively priced services profitably, while continuing to invest in new products and services. The capability and functionality of our network continues to grow in a number of areas, especially with respect to wireless connectivity. Our Internet service offers consumers the ability to wirelessly connect to our network using WiFi technology. We estimate that over 400 million devices are wirelessly connected to our network through WiFi. In addition, we extend Internet connectivity to our customers beyond the home via our Spectrum Mobile product through our mobile virtual network operator ( MVNO ) partnership agreement with Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"). We intend to use Citizens Broadband Radio Service ( CBRS ) Priority Access Licenses ( PALs ) that we purchased in 2020, along with unlicensed CBRS spectrum, to build our own fifth generation ("5G") mobile data-only network on our existing infrastructure in targeted geographies where there is high outdoor cellular traffic volume. This effort, in combination with our expanding WiFi network and continued 5G enhancements within the MVNO partnership agreement, should position our mobile product for continued customer experience and cost structure improvements. Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Washington Blvd., Stamford, Connecticut 06902. Our telephone number is (203) 905-7801, and we have a website accessible at ir.charter.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report. 1 Corporate Entity Structure The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. The chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes. The equity ownership percentages shown below are approximations. Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as of December 31, 2021. See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which also includes the accreted values of the indebtedness described below. 2 Footprint We operate in geographically diverse areas which are managed centrally on a consolidated level. The map below highlights our footprint as of December 31, 2021. Products and Services We offer our customers subscription-based Internet services, video services, and mobile and voice services. Our services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription basis, with prices and related charges based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a bundle or on an individual basis, and based on the equipment necessary to receive our services. Bundled services are available to substantially all of our passings, and approximately 53% of our residential customers subscribe to a bundle of services including some combination of our Internet, video and/or voice products. 3 The following table summarizes our customer statistics for Internet, video, voice and mobile as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands except per customer data and footnotes). Approximate as of December 31, 2021 (a) 2020 (a) Customer Relationships (b) Residential 29,926 29,079 SMB 2,143 2,051 Total Customer Relationships 32,069 31,130 Monthly Residential Revenue per Residential Customer (c) $ 113.61 $ 111.15 Monthly SMB Revenue per SMB Customer (d) $ 165.50 $ 165.60 Internet Residential 28,137 27,023 SMB 1,952 1,856 Total Internet Customers 30,089 28,879 Video Residential 15,216 15,639 SMB 617 561 Total Video Customers 15,833 16,200 Voice Residential 8,621 9,215 SMB 1,282 1,224 Total Voice Customers 9,903 10,439 Mobile Lines Residential 3,448 2,320 SMB 116 55 Total Mobile Lines 3,564 2,375 Enterprise Primary Service Units ("PSUs") (e) 272 259 (a) We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account. On that basis, as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, customers include approximately 150,700 and 168,400 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days past due, approximately 39,900 and 17,800 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 90 days past due, and approximately 43,500 and 11,100 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days past due. The increase in the past due accounts is predominately due to pre-existing balances for customers participating in the Emergency Broadband Benefit program through which a customer's monthly payment is subsidized by the federal government. (b) Customer relationships include the number of customers that receive one or more levels of service, encompassing Internet, video and voice services, without regard to which service(s) such customers receive. Customers who reside in residential multiple dwelling units ( MDUs ) and that are billed under bulk contracts are counted based on the number of billed units within each bulk MDU. Total customer relationships exclude enterprise and mobile-only customer relationships. (c) Monthly residential revenue per residential customer is calculated as total residential annual revenue divided by twelve divided by average residential customer relationships during the respective year and excludes mobile revenue and customers. (d) Monthly SMB revenue per SMB customer is calculated as total SMB annual revenue divided by twelve divided by average SMB customer relationships during the respective year and excludes mobile revenue and customers. (e) Enterprise PSUs represent the aggregate number of fiber service offerings counting each separate service offering at each customer location as an individual PSU. 4 Residential Services Connectivity Services We provide our customers with a suite of connectivity services including fixed Internet, WiFi and mobile Internet which when bundled together provides our customers with a differentiated Internet connectivity experience while saving consumers and businesses money. Our standard entry level fixed Internet download speed is at least 200 megabits per second ( Mbps ) in 85% of our footprint and 100 Mbps across the remainder of our footprint, which among other things, allows several people within a single household to stream high definition ( HD ) video content while simultaneously using our Internet service for other purposes. Additionally, leveraging DOCSIS 3.1 technology, we offer Spectrum Internet Gig speed service (Internet speeds up to 1 gigabit per second ("Gbps")) across our footprint. We also offer an in-home WiFi product that provides our Internet customers with high performance wireless routers and a managed WiFi service to maximize their fixed wireless Internet experience. During 2021, we completed our roll out of the Advanced Home WiFi ( AHW ) service which is now available across nearly all of our residential footprint along with the deployment of WiFi 6 routers capable of delivering speeds over 1 Gbps. With AHW, customers enjoy a cloud-optimized WiFi connection and have the ability to view and control their WiFi network through our Spectrum application ( My Spectrum App ). The service enables parental control schedules to be set for children s devices or limit access entirely to unknown devices attempting to access the network. Customers also have the option to add Spectrum WiFi pods to AHW. WiFi pods are small, discreet and powerful access points that plug into electrical outlets in the home, providing broader and more consistent WiFi coverage. In 2022, we will begin rolling out Spectrum Security Shield across the residential footprint which protects all devices in the home using network-based security. This free security suite provides end point protection to computers in the home, enabling protection against computer viruses, spyware and threats from malicious actors across the Internet. In 2021, we brought the capabilities of the AHW service to MDUs as Advanced Community WiFi ( ACW ). With ACW, tenants will receive the same visibility and control over their apartment s WiFi networks through the My Spectrum App, while building managers will be able to see and manage the entire building s network through a purpose-built property service portal. Our Spectrum Mobile service is offered to customers subscribing to our fixed Internet service, and runs on Verizon s mobile network, combined with Spectrum WiFi. We offer nationwide 5G service at no incremental cost to our mobile customers enabling them to stream content several times faster and reducing latency when connecting to apps or webpages where 5G coverage exists. In addition, we continue to focus on improving the customer experience and integrating our mobile and fixed Internet products, providing greater WiFi access, speeds and performance using more than 500,000 of our out of home WiFi access points across our footprint combined with over 20 million out of home WiFi access points of our industry partners providing near nationwide coverage. We provide wireline voice communications services using voice over Internet protocol ("VoIP") technology to transmit digital voice signals over our network. Our voice services include unlimited local and long distance calling to the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features and offers international calling either by the minute, or through packages of minutes per month. For customers that subscribe to both our voice and video offerings, caller ID on TV is also available in most areas. In early 2021, we launched Call Guard, a new advanced caller ID and robocall blocking solution, for our residential and SMB voice customers. Call Guard reduces customer frustration and improves security by blocking malicious calls while ensuring our customers continue to receive the legitimate automated calls they need from schools or healthcare providers. Video Services We provide our customers with a choice of video programming services on a variety of platforms including through a digital set-top box or an Internet Protocol ("IP") device. Video customers have access to a variety of programming packages with over 375 channels of in home and approximately 350 channels out of home allowing our customers to access the programming they want, when they want it, on any device. Our video customers also have access to programmer authenticated applications such as Fox Now, Showtime and ESPN and direct to consumer applications such as Netflix, YouTube and HBO Max on certain set-top boxes. Our video service also includes access to an interactive programming guide with parental controls and in virtually all of our footprint, video on demand ( VOD ) or pay-per-view services. VOD service allows customers to select from approximately 80,000 titles at any time including original content which is exclusive for a period of time through Spectrum 5 Originals such as Joe Pickett and Temple . VOD programming options may be accessed at no additional cost if the content is associated with a customer s linear subscription, or for a fee on a transactional basis. VOD services are also offered on a subscription basis included in a digital tier premium channel subscription or for a monthly fee. Pay-per-view channels allow customers to pay on a per-event basis to view a single showing of a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis. We also offer digital video recorder ( DVR ) service that enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming on set-top boxes and cloud DVR service, which allows customers to schedule, record and watch their favorite programming anytime from connected IP devices as well as SpectrumTV.com. Customers are increasingly accessing their subscription video content through our highly rated Spectrum TV application via connected IP devices via our IP network. Access to the Spectrum TV application is included in all Spectrum TV video plans and allows users to stream content across a growing number of platforms as well as accessing their full TV lineup, watching on demand content and the ability to program their DVR from anywhere. Customers are also able to purchase their video services within the Spectrum TV application. Commercial Services We offer scalable broadband communications solutions for businesses and carrier organizations of all sizes, selling Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services. Small and Medium Business Spectrum Business offers Internet, voice and video services to SMBs over our hybrid fiber coaxial network. In addition, we offer our Spectrum Mobile service to SMB customers. Spectrum Business includes a full range of video programming and entry-level Internet speeds of 200 Mbps downstream and 10 Mbps upstream in virtually all of our markets. Additionally, customers can upgrade their Internet speeds by purchasing Internet Ultra (600 Mbps downstream) or Internet Gig. Spectrum Business also includes a set of business services including static IP and business WiFi, e-mail and security, and multi-line telephone services with more than 35 business features including web-based service management, that are generally not available to residential customers. We also offer Wireless Internet Backup to our SMB customers throughout our footprint. Wireless Internet Backup is designed to enhance and protect Internet service for SMBs in the event of a network disruption. Enterprise Spectrum Enterprise offers tailored communications products and managed service solutions to larger businesses and government entities (local, state and federal), as well as high-capacity last-mile network connectivity services to mobile and wireline carriers on a wholesale basis. The Spectrum Enterprise product portfolio includes connectivity services such as Internet Access (fiber, wireless and coax delivered); Wide Area Network ("WAN") solutions (Ethernet, SD-WAN and cloud connectivity) that privately and securely connect geographically dispersed customer locations and cloud service providers; and Managed Services which address a wide range of enterprise networking (e.g. routing, WiFi) and security (e.g. firewall, DDoS protection) challenges. To meet the communications needs of these more sophisticated customers, Spectrum Enterprise also offers an array of voice trunking services and unified messaging, communications and collaboration solutions. In addition, for industries such as hospitality, education and healthcare where specialized video solutions are demanded, Spectrum Enterprise offers a wide range of solutions designed to meet those requirements. Spectrum Enterprise serves businesses nationally by combining its large serviceable footprint with a robust portfolio of fiber lit buildings and a significant wholesale partner network. As a result, these customers benefit by obtaining advanced solutions from a single provider who is committed to an exceptional customer experience and who delivers compelling value by simplifying procurement and offering competitive pricing potentially reducing their costs. Advertising Services Our advertising sales division, Spectrum Reach, offers local, regional and national businesses the opportunity to advertise in individual and multiple service areas on cable television networks, various streaming services and numerous advanced advertising platforms. We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising across various platforms for networks such as TBS, CNN and ESPN and on our Spectrum TV application. We insert local advertising on up to 100 channels in over 90 markets. Our large footprint provides opportunities for advertising customers to address broader regional audiences from a single provider and thus reach more customers with a single transaction. Our size also provides scale to invest in new technology to create more targeted and addressable advertising capabilities. 6 Available advertising time is generally sold by our advertising sales force. In some service areas, we have formed advertising interconnects or entered into representation agreements with other video distributors, including, among others, Verizon, AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and Comcast Corporation, under which we sell advertising on behalf of those operators. In other service areas, we enter into representation agreements under which another operator in the area will sell advertising on our behalf. These arrangements enable us and our partners to deliver linear commercials across wider geographic areas, replicating the reach of local broadcast television stations to the extent possible. In addition, we enter into interconnect agreements from time to time with other cable operators, which, on behalf of a number of video operators, sells advertising time to national and regional advertisers in individual or multiple service areas. Additionally, we sell the advertising inventory of our owned and operated local sports and news channels, of our regional sports networks that carry Los Angeles Lakers basketball games and other sports programming and of SportsNet LA, a regional sports network that carries Los Angeles Dodgers baseball games and other sports programming. In 2021, we continued to expand our deployment of household addressability ("HHA"), which allows for more precise targeting within various parts of our footprint. Additionally, in conjunction with other MVPDs, Spectrum Reach enables affiliated cable networks to deploy HHA on their own inventory in our footprint, charging them an enablement fee. We also continue to further enhance our Ad Portal, which allows small businesses to purchase local cable advertising and/or creative services via our web portal with no sales personnel interaction at a price within their budgets. Our fully deployed Audience App, which uses our proprietary set-top box viewership data (all anonymized and aggregated), allows us to create data-driven linear TV campaigns for local advertisers. Streaming TV, which is largely comprised of Spectrum TV application impressions, as well as those from numerous over-the-top streaming content providers, is part of our suite of advanced advertising products available to the marketplace. Finally, Spectrum Reach is now employing multi-screen deterministic attribution services for television and streaming services that lets advertisers know the effectiveness of their advertising on Spectrum Reach s platform. Other Services Regional Sports Networks We have an agreement with the Los Angeles Lakers for rights to distribute all locally available Los Angeles Lakers games through 2033. We broadcast those games on our regional sports network, Spectrum SportsNet. American Media Productions, LLC ("American Media Productions"), an unaffiliated third party, owns SportsNet LA, a regional sports network carrying the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball games and other sports programming. In accordance with agreements with American Media Productions, we act as the network s exclusive affiliate and advertising sales representative and have certain branding and programming rights with respect to the network. In addition, we provide certain production and technical services to American Media Productions. The affiliate, advertising, production and programming agreements continue through 2038. We also own 26.8% 