Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 19 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C Cybersecurity 27 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 [Reserved] 32 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 47 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B Other Information 49 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 49 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 50 Item 11 Executive Compensation 50 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 50 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 50 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 50 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 51 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 51 Signatures S- 1 Exhibit Index E- 1 This annual report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2023. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows us to incorporate by reference information that we file with the SEC, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this annual report. In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this annual report. In this annual report, Charter, we, us and our refer to Charter Communications, Inc. and its subsidiaries. i CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This annual report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, regarding, among other things, our plans, strategies and prospects, both business and financial including, without limitation, the forward-looking statements set forth in Part I. Item 1. under the heading Business and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this annual report. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, without limitation, the factors described in Part I. Item 1A. under Risk Factors and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this annual report. Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report may be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, will, may, intend, estimated, aim, on track, target, opportunity, tentative, positioning, designed, create, predict, project, initiatives, seek, would, could, continue, ongoing, upside, increases, grow, focused on and potential, among others. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make in this annual report are set forth in this annual report and in other reports or documents that we file from time to time with the SEC, and include, but are not limited to: our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering Internet, video, voice, mobile, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our service areas and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures; the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, digital subscriber line ( DSL ) providers, fiber to the home providers and providers of video content over broadband Internet connections; general business conditions, unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector and economic uncertainty or downturn; our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents and distribution requirements); our ability to develop and deploy new products and technologies including consumer services and service platforms; any events that disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and impair our operating activities or our reputation; the effects of governmental regulation on our business including subsidies to consumers, subsidies and incentives for competitors, costs, disruptions and possible limitations on operating flexibility related to, and our ability to comply with, regulatory conditions applicable to us; the ability to hire and retain key personnel; our ability to procure necessary services and equipment from our vendors in a timely manner and at reasonable costs including in connection with our network evolution and rural construction initiatives; the availability and access, in general, of funds to meet our debt obligations prior to or when they become due and to fund our operations and necessary capital expenditures, either through (i) cash on hand, (ii) free cash flow, or (iii) access to the capital or credit markets; and our ability to comply with all covenants in our indentures and credit facilities, any violation of which, if not cured in a timely manner, could trigger a default of our other obligations under cross-default provisions. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. We are under no duty or obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report. ii PART I Item 1. Business. Introduction We are a leading broadband connectivity company and cable operator serving more than 32 million customers in 41 states through our Spectrum brand. Over an advanced communications network, we offer a full range of state-of-the-art residential and business services including Spectrum Internet , TV, Mobile and Voice. For small and medium-sized companies, Spectrum Business delivers the same suite of broadband products and services coupled with special features and applications to enhance productivity, while for larger businesses and government entities, Spectrum Enterprise provides highly customized, fiber-based solutions. Spectrum Reach delivers tailored advertising and production for the modern media landscape. We also distribute award-winning news coverage and sports programming to our customers through Spectrum Networks. Our network, which we own and operate, passes nearly an estimated 57 million households and businesses across the United States. Our strategy is focused on the evolution of our network and products, expansion of our footprint, and the execution of high quality operations, including customer service. This strategy allows us to maintain a state-of-the-art network delivering the most compelling converged connectivity services in a capital and time-efficient manner, and in turn, offer advanced services to consumers at highly attractive prices, together with outstanding customer service. Offering high quality, competitively priced products and outstanding service allows us to increase both the number of customers we serve over our network and the number of products we sell to each customer. This combination also reduces the number of service transactions we perform per relationship, yielding higher customer satisfaction and lower customer churn, which results in lower costs to acquire and serve customers and greater profitability. Evolution Expanding the Capability of Our Network and Products Our network and product evolution plan is progressing, with a clear path to delivering symmetrical and multi-gig speeds to our customers across our footprint, meeting the needs of today and anticipating the demand for faster speeds for years to come. We continue to evolve our hybrid fiber coaxial network using a number of technologies, including spectrum expansion, initially to 1.2 GHz and then to 1.8 GHz, changing the bandwidth allocation to a "high split" to increase upstream speeds, Distributed Access Architecture ("DAA") and DOCSIS 4.0 technology. Through this process, which we expect to complete in 2026, we will transform our network to enable multi-gigabit data speeds to customers. Those faster speeds will be offered in conjunction with our Spectrum Mobile product and Advanced WiFi, providing customers seamless and convenient, ultra-fast converged connectivity in attractively priced packages, such as our Spectrum One offer. In addition, we expect our network evolution to enable us to offer fiber on demand across the majority of our footprint. In October 2023, we began deploying Xumo Stream Boxes ("Xumo") to new video customers. Xumo combines a live TV experience with access to hundreds of content applications, and features unified search and discovery, along with a curated content offering based on the customer's interests and subscriptions. Combined with our Spectrum TV app, Xumo is now our preferred go-to-market platform for new video sales. Expansion Building Our Future by Extending Our Network Since inception in the beginning of 2022, we have spent $3.4 billion on our subsidized rural construction initiative and activated approximately 420,000 passings. Rural builds present strategic footprint expansion opportunities to unserved and underserved passings. Including amounts spent to date, we expect to invest over $8 billion in total in our subsidized rural construction initiative, a portion of which we expect to offset with government funding, including over $2 billion of support awarded through December 31, 2023 in the Rural Development Opportunity Fund ( RDOF ) auction and other federal, state and municipal grants. We also expect to participate in additional federal, state and municipal grant programs over the coming years, including the Broadband Equity, Access and Deployment ("BEAD") program, if regulatory conditions are conducive to private investment. Our rural investments will allow us to offer a suite of broadband connectivity services, including fixed Internet, WiFi and mobile to over 1.6 million passings in unserved areas in states where we currently operate. We have also renewed our focus on building to more passings inside and at the edge of our existing and expanding network. To accomplish all of this, we have invested in new teams, new training and new equipment. These investments will allow us to generate long-term infrastructure-style returns by taking further advantage of our scale efficiencies, network quality and construction capabilities, while offering our high quality products and services to more homes and businesses. 1 Execution Turning Our Strategy Into Success Our operating strategy is grounded in our desire to deliver high quality products to consumers at an attractive price. In addition, our focus on service quality complements our products and price. We are improving the customer experience by digitizing service where customers prefer, performing proactive maintenance, and improving the quality of our interactions by investing in our systems and operations teams. As part of our investment in operations teams, we have made targeted adjustments to job structure, pay and benefits and career paths to improve the skills and tenure of our workforce. Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Washington Blvd., Stamford, Connecticut 06902. Our telephone number is (203) 905-7801, and we have a website accessible at ir.charter.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report. 2 Corporate Entity Structure The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. The chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes. The equity ownership percentages shown below for Charter Communications Holdings, LLC ( Charter Holdings ) are approximations. Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as of December 31, 2023. See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which also includes the accreted values of the indebtedness described below. 3 Footprint We operate in geographically diverse areas which are managed centrally on a consolidated level. The map below highlights our footprint along with our planned rural expansion over the next several years based on grants awarded as of December 31, 2023. Products and Services We offer our customers subscription-based Internet services, video services, and mobile and voice services, with prices and related charges based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a bundle or on an individual basis, and based on the equipment necessary to receive our services. Bundled services, including some combination of our Internet, video, voice and/or mobile products are available to substantially all of our passings. 4 The following table summarizes our customer statistics for Internet, video, voice and mobile as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands except per customer data and footnotes). Approximate as of December 31, 2023 (a) 2022 (a) Customer Relationships (b) Residential 29,904 29,988 Small and Medium Business ("SMB") 2,222 2,207 Total Customer Relationships 32,126 32,195 Monthly Residential Revenue per Residential Customer (c) $ 119.89 $ 119.38 Monthly SMB Revenue per SMB Customer (d) $ 163.64 $ 166.36 Internet Residential 28,544 28,412 SMB 2,044 2,021 Total Internet Customers 30,588 30,433 Video Residential 13,503 14,497 SMB 619 650 Total Video Customers 14,122 15,147 Voice Residential 6,712 7,697 SMB 1,293 1,286 Total Voice Customers 8,005 8,983 Mobile Lines (e) Residential 7,519 5,116 SMB 247 176 Total Mobile Lines 7,766 5,292 Enterprise Primary Service Units ("PSUs") (f) 303 284 (a) We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account in accordance with our collection policies. On that basis, as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, customers include approximately 135,800 and 144,100 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days past due, approximately 54,700 and 52,800 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 90 days past due, and approximately 286,000 and 214,100 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days past due. Bad debt expense associated with these past due accounts has been reflected in our consolidated statements of operations. The increase in accounts past due more than 120 days is predominately due to pre-existing and incremental unsubsidized amounts of customers bills for those customers participating in government assistance programs, including video services. These customers are downgraded to a subsidized Internet-only service. (b) Customer relationships include the number of customers that receive one or more levels of service, encompassing Internet, video, voice and mobile services, without regard to which service(s) such customers receive. Customers who reside in residential multiple dwelling units ( MDUs ) and that are billed under bulk contracts are counted based on the number of billed units within each bulk MDU. Total customer relationships exclude enterprise and mobile-only customer relationships. (c) Monthly residential revenue per residential customer is calculated as total residential annual revenue divided by twelve divided by average residential customer relationships during the respective year and excludes mobile-only customers. (d) Monthly SMB revenue per SMB customer is calculated as total SMB annual revenue divided by twelve divided by average SMB customer relationships during the respective year and excludes mobile-only customers. 5 (e) Mobile lines include phones and tablets which require one of our standard rate plans (e.g., "Unlimited" or "By the Gig"). Mobile lines exclude wearables and other devices that do not require standard phone rate plans. (f) Enterprise PSUs represent the aggregate number of fiber service offerings counting each separate service offering at each customer location as an individual PSU. Residential Services Connectivity Services We provide our customers with a suite of broadband connectivity services, including fixed Internet, WiFi and mobile, which when bundled together provides our customers with a differentiated converged connectivity experience while saving consumers and businesses money. We offer Spectrum Internet products with speeds up to 1 Gbps across our entire footprint. Spectrum Internet bundled with our in-home Advanced WiFi allows multiple people within a single household to stream high definition ( HD ) video content while simultaneously using our Internet service for other purposes including two-way video conferencing, gaming and virtual reality, among other things. Our in-home WiFi product provides our Internet customers with high performance wireless routers and a managed WiFi service to maximize their wireless Internet experience. We offer Advanced WiFi service across all of our footprint along with WiFi 6E routers capable of delivering speeds over 2 Gbps. With Advanced WiFi, customers enjoy a cloud-optimized WiFi connection and have the ability to view and control their WiFi network through our Spectrum app ( My Spectrum App ). The service enables parental control schedules to be set for children s devices or to limit access entirely to unknown devices attempting to access the network. We also offer Spectrum Security Shield across our footprint which protects all devices in the home using network-based security. Spectrum Security Shield is an automatically-enabled security feature that works to defend our customers and their devices from online threats by detecting and blocking malicious websites, phishing scams, data theft and Internet-originated attacks against devices in the home. Customers also have the option to add Spectrum WiFi pods to Advanced WiFi. WiFi pods are small, discreet access points that plug into electrical outlets in the home, providing broader and more consistent WiFi coverage. We also offer the capabilities of the Advanced WiFi service to MDUs as Advanced Community WiFi ( ACW ). With ACW, tenants receive the same visibility and control over their apartment s WiFi networks through the My Spectrum App, while building managers will be able to see and manage the entire building s network through a purpose-built property service portal. Our Spectrum Mobile service is offered to customers subscribing to our Internet service and uses both our Spectrum Mobile network (comprised of out-of-home WiFi access points across our footprint combined with out-of-home WiFi access points from other networks with which we partner) as well as leveraging Verizon Communications Inc. s ("Verizon") cellular network. We leverage the Verizon cellular network to provide nationwide coverage including unlimited calls, text and data using Verizon s fourth generation and fifth generation ("5G") service including their 5G wide band services. Spectrum Mobile also uses Verizon s international roaming partner network to ensure customers have coverage around the globe. Customers can use their Spectrum Mobile device to connect to their Spectrum WiFi, which increases speeds and provides a superior experience while in the home. In addition, we continue to focus on improving the customer experience and integrating our mobile and fixed Internet products with enhancements such as Spectrum Mobile Speed Boost ( Speed Boost ). Customers are eligible for Speed Boost if they have both Spectrum Mobile and Spectrum Internet, a DOCSIS 3.1 modem and an Advanced WiFi router. When connected on their Spectrum Mobile device through Advanced WiFi service, customers are now experiencing the fastest overall speeds up to 1 Gbps. We provide wireline voice communications services using voice over Internet protocol ("VoIP") technology to transmit digital voice signals over our network. Our voice services include unlimited local and long distance calling to the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features and offers international calling either by the minute, or through packages of minutes per month. For customers that subscribe to both our voice and video offerings, caller ID on TV is also available in most areas. We also offer Call Guard, an advanced caller ID and robocall blocking solution, for our residential and SMB voice customers. Call Guard reduces customer frustration and improves security by blocking malicious calls while ensuring our customers continue to receive the legitimate automated calls they need from schools or healthcare providers. 6 Video Services We provide our customers with a choice of video programming services on a variety of platforms including through a digital Spectrum Receiver or an Internet Protocol ("IP") device. Video customers have access to a variety of programming packages with approximately 375 channels available in home and out of home allowing our customers to access the programming they want, when they want it, on any device. Our video customers also have access to programmer authenticated applications such as Fox Sports, Starz, NBC, ESPN and CBS and direct-to-consumer ("DTC") applications such as Disney+ which, beginning in 2024, is included with a customer s video subscription at no additional cost. Our video service also includes access to an interactive programming guide with parental controls, and in virtually all of our footprint, video on demand ( VOD ) or pay-per-view services. VOD service allows customers to select from approximately 90,000 titles at any time. VOD programming options may be accessed at no additional cost if the content is associated with a customer s linear subscription, or for a fee on a transactional basis. VOD services are also offered on a subscription basis, included in a digital tier premium channel subscription, or for a monthly fee. Pay-per-view channels allow customers with a set-top box to pay on a per-event basis to view a single showing of a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis. We also offer digital video recorder ( DVR ) service that enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming on set-top boxes. Our cloud DVR service allows customers to schedule, record and watch their favorite programming anytime from the Spectrum TV app as well as SpectrumTV.com. In October 2023, we began deploying Xumo to new video customers. Xumo combines a live TV experience with access to hundreds of content applications and features unified search and discovery along with a curated content offering based on the customer's interests and subscriptions. Combined with our Spectrum TV app, Xumo is now our preferred go-to-market platform for new video sales. Customers are increasingly accessing their subscription video content through our highly rated Spectrum TV app via mobile devices and connected IP devices, such as Xumo, Roku and Samsung TV. Access to the Spectrum TV app is included in all Spectrum TV video plans. The Spectrum TV app allows users to stream content across a growing number of platforms as well as access their full TV lineup and watch on demand content. It also supports DVR functionality through our cloud DVR offering. Commercial Services We offer scalable broadband communications solutions for businesses and carrier organizations of all sizes, selling Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services. Small and Medium Business Spectrum Business offers Internet, voice and video services to SMBs over our hybrid fiber coaxial network. In 2023, we launched Advanced WiFi service to SMBs, which leverages the residential platform features, including Security Shield, with features specific to small and medium-size business such as a guest service set identifier ( SSID ). In addition, we offer our Spectrum Mobile service to SMB customers. Spectrum Business includes a full range of video programming and offers Internet speeds up to 1 Gbps across our entire footprint. Spectrum Business also includes a set of business services including static IP and business WiFi, e-mail and security, and voice services through either a traditional voice offering or hosted voice solution. Spectrum Business Connect with RingCentral is an SMB communications solution that includes Spectrum Internet, voice and complementary mobility features allowing our customers remote and office employees to stay more easily connected regardless of their location. We also offer Wireless Internet Backup to our SMB customers which is designed to enhance and protect Internet service for SMBs in the event of a network disruption. Enterprise Spectrum Enterprise offers tailored communications products and managed service solutions over a high-capacity last-mile network with speeds up to 100 Gbps to larger businesses and government entities (local, state and federal), in addition to wholesale services to mobile and wireline carriers. The Spectrum Enterprise product portfolio includes connectivity services such as Internet Access (fiber, wireless and coax delivered); Wide Area Network ("WAN") solutions (Ethernet, Software Defined ( SD )-WAN and cloud connectivity) that privately and securely connect geographically dispersed customer locations and cloud service providers; and Managed Services which address a wide range of enterprise networking (e.g. routing, Local Area Network ( LAN ), WiFi) and security (e.g. firewall, Distributed Denial of Service ( DDoS ) protection) challenges. To 7 meet the communications needs of these more sophisticated customers, Spectrum Enterprise also offers an array of voice trunking services and unified messaging, communications and collaboration solutions. We offer Unified Communications with RingCentral, which integrates Spectrum Enterprise s managed services to complement its other solutions and gives customers more choices for enhancing their digital experience across locations and devices. In addition, for industries such as hospitality, education and healthcare where specialized video solutions are demanded, Spectrum Enterprise offers a wide range of solutions designed to meet those requirements. Spectrum Enterprise serves businesses nationally by combining its large serviceable footprint with a robust portfolio of fiber lit buildings and a significant wholesale partner network. As a result, these customers benefit by obtaining advanced solutions from a single provider who is committed to an exceptional customer experience and who delivers compelling value by simplifying procurement and offering competitive pricing potentially reducing our customers' costs. Advertising Services Our advertising sales division, Spectrum Reach, offers local, regional and national businesses the opportunity to advertise in individual and multiple service areas on cable television networks, various streaming services and numerous advanced advertising platforms. We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising across various platforms for networks such as TBS, CNN and ESPN. We insert local advertising on up to 100 channels in over 90 markets. Our large footprint provides opportunities for advertising customers to address broader regional audiences from a single provider and thus reach more customers with a single transaction. Our size also provides scale to invest in new technology to create more targeted and addressable advertising capabilities. Available advertising time is generally sold by our advertising sales force. In some service areas, we have formed advertising interconnects or entered into representation agreements with other video distributors, including, among others, Verizon, DirecTV and Comcast, under which we sell advertising on behalf of those operators. In other service areas, we enter into representation agreements under which another operator in the area will sell advertising on our behalf. These arrangements enable us and our partners to represent and deliver commercials on their inventory across wider geographic areas, replicating the reach of local broadcast television stations to the extent possible. In addition, we enter into interconnect agreements from time to time with other cable operators, which, on behalf of a number of video operators, sells advertising time to national and regional advertisers in individual or multiple service areas. Additionally, we sell the advertising inventory of our owned and operated local sports and news channels, of our regional