Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2 Properties 24 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 26 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 42 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 42 Item 9B Other Information 43 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 44 Item 11 Executive Compensation 44 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 44 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 44 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 44 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 Signatures S- 1 Exhibit Index E- 1 This annual report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2019 . The United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows us to incorporate by reference information that we file with the SEC, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this annual report. In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this annual report. In this annual report, Charter, we, us and our refer to Charter Communications, Inc. and its subsidiaries. i CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This annual report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), regarding, among other things, our plans, strategies and prospects, both business and financial including, without limitation, the forward-looking statements set forth in Part I. Item 1. under the heading Business and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this annual report. Although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, without limitation, the factors described in Part I. Item 1A. under Risk Factors and in Part II. Item 7. under the heading, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this annual report. Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report may be identified by the use of forward looking words such as believe, expect, anticipate, should, planned, will, may, intend, estimated, aim, on track, target, opportunity, tentative, positioning, designed, create, predict, project, initiatives, seek, would, could, continue, ongoing, upside, increases, focused on and potential, among others. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make in this annual report are set forth in this annual report and in other reports or documents that we file from time to time with the SEC, and include, but are not limited to: our ability to sustain and grow revenues and cash flow from operations by offering video, Internet, voice, mobile, advertising and other services to residential and commercial customers, to adequately meet the customer experience demands in our service areas and to maintain and grow our customer base, particularly in the face of increasingly aggressive competition, the need for innovation and the related capital expenditures; the impact of competition from other market participants, including but not limited to incumbent telephone companies, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators, wireless broadband and telephone providers, digital subscriber line ( DSL ) providers, fiber to the home providers and providers of video content over broadband Internet connections; our ability to obtain programming at reasonable prices or to raise prices to offset, in whole or in part, the effects of higher programming costs (including retransmission consents); our ability to develop and deploy new products and technologies including mobile products and any other consumer services and service platforms; any events that disrupt our networks, information systems or properties and impair our operating activities or our reputation; the effects of governmental regulation on our business including costs, disruptions and possible limitations on operating flexibility related to, and our ability to comply with, regulatory conditions applicable to us as a result of the Time Warner Cable Inc. and Bright House Networks, LLC transactions; general business conditions, economic uncertainty or downturn, unemployment levels and the level of activity in the housing sector; the ability to retain and hire key personnel; the availability and access, in general, of funds to meet our debt obligations prior to or when they become due and to fund our operations and necessary capital expenditures, either through (i) cash on hand, (ii) free cash flow, or (iii) access to the capital or credit markets; and our ability to comply with all covenants in our indentures and credit facilities, any violation of which, if not cured in a timely manner, could trigger a default of our other obligations under cross-default provisions. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. We are under no duty or obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report. ii PART I Item 1. Business. Introduction We are the second largest cable operator in the United States and a leading broadband communications services company providing video, Internet and voice services to approximately 29.2 million residential and small and medium business customers at December 31, 2019 . We also offer mobile service to residential customers and recently launched mobile service to small and medium business customers. In addition, we sell video and online advertising inventory to local, regional and national advertising customers and tailored communications and managed solutions to larger enterprise customers. We also own and operate regional sports networks and local sports, news and community channels. We own and operate a high-capacity, two-way telecommunications network which passes over 52 million households and small and medium businesses across the United States. Our core strategy is to use our network to deliver high quality products at competitive prices, combined with outstanding service. This strategy, combined with simple, easy to understand pricing and packaging, is central to our goal of growing our customer base while selling more of our core connectivity services, which include both fixed and mobile Internet, video and voice services, to each individual customer. We execute this strategy by managing our operations in a consumer-friendly, efficient and cost-effective manner. Our operating strategy includes insourcing nearly all of our customer care and field operations workforces, which results in higher quality service delivery. While an insourced operating model can increase the field operations and customer care costs associated with individual service transactions, the higher quality nature of insourced labor service transactions significantly reduces the volume of service transactions per customer, more than offsetting the higher investment made in each insourced service transaction. As we reduce the number of service transactions and recurring costs per customer relationship, we continue to provide our customers with products and prices that we believe provide more value than what our competitors offer. The combination of offering high quality, competitively priced products and outstanding service, allows us to both increase the number of customers we serve over our fully deployed network, and to increase the number of products we sell to each customer. This combination also reduces the number of service transactions we perform per relationship, yielding higher customer satisfaction and lower customer churn, resulting in lower costs to acquire and serve customers. We have enhanced our service operations to allow our customers to (1) more frequently interact with us through our customer website and Spectrum TV application, online chat and social media, (2) have their services installed at the time and in the manner of their own choosing, including self-installation, and (3) receive a variety of video packages on an increasing number of connected devices including those owned by us and those owned by the customer. By offering our customers growing levels of choices in how they receive and install their services and how they interact with us, we are driving higher overall levels of customer satisfaction and reducing our operating costs and capital expenditures per customer relationship. Ultimately, our operating strategy enables us to offer high quality, competitively priced services profitably, while continuing to invest in new products and services. The capability and functionality of our two-way network continues to grow in a number of areas, especially with respect to wireless connectivity. Our Internet service offers consumers the ability to wirelessly connect to our network using WiFi technology. We estimate that over 300 million devices are wirelessly connected to our network through WiFi. Initially, our wireless strategy focused on offering wireless connectivity solutions inside the home and business using WiFi. Through our mobile virtual network operator ( MVNO ) reseller agreement with Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"), we are now able to offer Internet connectivity to our customers beyond the home via our Spectrum Mobile product. We are also actively testing and evaluating opportunities for our customers to wirelessly connect to our network using a combination of licensed and unlicensed radio spectrum to deliver fixed and mobile service directly from our distributed, high capacity network . Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Atlantic Street, Stamford, Connecticut 06901. Our telephone number is (203) 905-7801, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report. 1 Corporate Entity Structure The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. The chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes. The equity ownership percentages shown below are approximations. Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as of December 31, 2019 . See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which also includes the accreted values of the indebtedness described below. 2 Products and Services We offer our customers subscription-based video services, Internet services, and voice and mobile services. Our services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription basis, with prices and related charges based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a bundle or on an individual basis, and based on the equipment necessary to receive our services. Bundled services are available to substantially all of our passings, and approximately 57% of our residential customers subscribe to a bundle of services including some combination of our video, Internet and/or voice products. The following table summarizes our customer statistics for video, Internet, mobile and voice as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands except per customer data and footnotes). Approximate as of December 31, 2019 (a) 2018 (a) Customer Relationships (b) Residential 27,277 26,270 Small and Medium Business 1,958 1,833 Total Customer Relationships 29,235 28,103 Residential Primary Service Units ("PSUs") Video 15,620 16,104 Internet 24,908 23,625 Voice 9,443 10,135 Monthly Residential Revenue per Residential Customer (c) $ 112.63 $ 111.56 Small and Medium Business PSUs Video 524 502 Internet 1,756 1,634 Voice 1,144 1,051 Monthly Small and Medium Business Revenue per Customer (d) $ 169.90 $ 174.88 Mobile Lines 1,082 134 Enterprise PSUs (e) 267 248 (a) We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account. On that basis, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , customers include approximately 154,200 and 217,600 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days past due, approximately 13,500 and 24,000 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 90 days past due, and approximately 10,000 and 19,200 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days past due. (b) Customer relationships include the number of customers that receive one or more levels of service, encompassing video, Internet and voice services, without regard to which service(s) such customers receive. Customers who reside in residential multiple dwelling units ( MDUs ) and that are billed under bulk contracts are counted based on the number of billed units within each bulk MDU. Total customer relationships exclude enterprise and mobile-only customer relationships. (c) Monthly residential revenue per residential customer is calculated as total residential video, Internet and voice annual revenue divided by twelve divided by average residential customer relationships during the respective year. Monthly residential revenue per residential customers excludes mobile revenue and customers. (d) Monthly small and medium business revenue per customer is calculated as total small and medium business annual revenue divided by twelve divided by average small and medium business customer relationships during the respective year. Monthly small and medium business revenue per small and medium customer excludes mobile revenue and customers. (e) Enterprise PSUs represent the aggregate number of fiber service offerings counting each separate service offering at each customer location as an individual PSU. 3 Residential Services Video Services Our video customers receive a package of programming which generally includes a digital set-top box that provides an interactive electronic programming guide with parental controls, access to pay-per-view services, including video on demand ( VOD ) (available to nearly all of our passings) and the ability to view certain video services on third-party devices inside and outside the residence. Customers have the option to purchase additional tiers of services including premium channels which provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other special event entertainment programming. Substantially all of our video programming is available in high definition. We also offer certain video packages containing a limited number of channels via our cable television systems. In the vast majority of our footprint, we offer VOD service which allows customers to select from over 60,000 titles at any time. VOD programming options may be accessed for free if the content is associated with a customer s linear subscription, or for a fee on a transactional basis. VOD services are also offered on a subscription basis included in a digital tier premium channel subscription or for a monthly fee. Pay-per-view channels allow customers to pay on a per-event basis to view a single showing of a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis. Our goal is to provide our video customers with the programming they want, when they want it, on any device. Digital video recorder ( DVR ) service enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming. Customers can also use our Spectrum TV application on Internet Protocol ("IP") devices to watch over 375 channels of cable TV in home and approximately 275 channels out of home and view VOD programming. Customers are increasingly accessing their subscription video content through connected IP devices via our IP network. In 2019, we launched cloud DVR service which allows customers to schedule, record and watch their favorite programming anytime from connected IP devices as well as SpectrumTV.com. Our video customers also have access to programmer authenticated applications and websites (known as TV Everywhere services) such as HBO Go, Fox Now, Discovery Go and ESPN. We deploy Spectrum Guide , our network or cloud-based user interface, to new video customers in the majority of our service areas. Spectrum Guide runs on traditional set-top boxes but offers a look and feel similar to that of our Spectrum TV application. Spectrum Guide also provides access to third-party video applications such as Netflix. Internet Services Our Spectrum pricing and packaging ( SPP ) offers an entry level Internet download speed of at least 200 megabits per second ( Mbps ) in approximately 60% of our footprint and 100 Mbps across approximately 40% of our footprint, which among other things, allows several people within a single household to stream high definition ( HD ) television video content while simultaneously using our Internet service for other purposes. Additionally, leveraging DOCSIS 3.1 technology, we offer 940 Mbps speed service ("Spectrum Internet Gig") in nearly all of our footprint. Finally, we offer a security suite with our Internet services which, upon installation by customers, provides protection against computer viruses and spyware and includes parental control features. We offer an in-home WiFi product that provides customers with high performance wireless routers to maximize their in-home wireless Internet experience. At the end of 2019, we launched our advanced in-home WiFi product in select service areas and we plan to continue to roll this product out to our entire footprint throughout 2020 and 2021. Advanced in-home WiFi provides connected device visibility, management and control to customers in a single application and to customer service agents to help support our customers. Advanced in-home WiFi is built on a software platform that will allow us to integrate and launch additional network based security and control features. Voice Services We provide voice communications services using voice over Internet protocol ("VoIP") technology to transmit digital voice signals over our network. Our voice services include unlimited local and long distance calling to the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features and offers international calling either by the minute, or through packages of minutes per month. For customers that subscribe to both our voice and video offerings, caller ID on TV is also available in most areas. Mobile Services At the end of the second quarter of 2018, we launched our mobile product, Spectrum Mobile, to residential customers under our MVNO reseller agreement with Verizon. We currently offer our Spectrum Mobile service to residential customers subscribing to 4 our Internet service and recently launched mobile service to small and medium business customers. In the second quarter of 2019, we expanded our Spectrum Mobile bring-your-own-device ("BYOD") program across all sales channels to include a broader set of devices which we believe lowers the cost for consumers of switching mobile carriers, and reduces the short-term working capital impact of selling new mobile devices on installment plans. We believe Spectrum-branded mobile services will drive more sales of our core products, create longer customer lives and increase profitability and cash flow over time. As we continue to grow our mobile services, including 5G in 2020, we expect that Spectrum Mobile will require an initial funding period to grow the product as well as negative working capital impacts from the timing of device-related cash flows when we sell the handset or tablet to customers pursuant to equipment installment plans. We plan to use our WiFi network in conjunction with additional unlicensed, and potentially licensed, spectrum to improve network performance and expand capacity to offer consumers a superior mobile service at a lower total cost to us. Further, we have experimental wireless licenses from the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") that we are utilizing to test next generation mobile services in several service areas around the country. We intend to consider and pursue opportunities in the mobile space which may include the acquisition of licensed spectrum and may include entering into or expanding joint ventures or partnerships with wireless or cable providers which may require significant investment. Commercial Services We offer scalable broadband communications solutions for businesses and carrier organizations of all sizes, selling Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services. Small and Medium Business Spectrum Business offers Internet, voice and video services to small and medium businesses over our hybrid fiber coaxial network. In addition, in 2019, we began offering our Spectrum Mobile service to small and medium business customers. Spectrum Business includes a full range of video programming and entry-level Internet speeds of 200 Mbps downstream and 10 Mbps upstream in virtually all of our markets. Additionally, customers can upgrade their Internet speeds by purchasing Internet Ultra (400 Mbps downstream) or Internet Gig (940 Mbps downstream). Spectrum Business also includes a set of business services including static IP and business WiFi , e-mail and security, and multi-line telephone services with more than 30 business features including web-based service management, that are generally not available to residential customers. Enterprise Spectrum Enterprise offers more tailored communications products and managed service solutions to larger businesses, as well as high-capacity last-mile data connectivity services to mobile and wireline carriers on a wholesale basis. Spectrum Enterprise's product portfolio includes fiber Internet access, voice trunking services, unified messaging/unified communications ( UM/UC ), Ethernet services that privately and securely connect geographically dispersed client locations, and video solutions designed to meet the needs of hospitality, education, and healthcare clients. In addition, in 2019, Spectrum Enterprise launched an innovative Hybrid Software-Defined Wide Area Network ("SD-WAN") that enables businesses to leverage the performance of Ethernet, the ubiquity of Internet connectivity and the flexibility of a software-defined solution to solve a wide array of business communications and networking challenges. Spectrum Enterprise combines its large, serviceable footprint and robust portfolio of fiber lit buildings with a sizeable partner network to effectively serve enterprise customers nationally. These customers can benefit from obtaining advanced services from a single provider, receiving a consistent solution while simplifying procurement and potentially reducing their costs. Advertising Services Our advertising sales division, Spectrum Reach , offers local, regional and national businesses the opportunity to advertise in individual and multiple service areas on cable television networks and digital outlets. We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising across various platforms for networks such as MTV, CNN and ESPN. In any particular service area, we typically insert local advertising on 40 to 90 channels. Our large footprint provides opportunities for advertising customers to address broader regional audiences from a single provider and thus reach more customers with a single transaction. Our size also provides scale to invest in new technology to create more targeted and addressable advertising capabilities. Available advertising time is generally sold by our advertising sales force. In some service areas, we have formed advertising interconnects or entered into representation agreements with other video distributors, including, among others, Verizon, AT T Inc. ( AT T ) and Comcast Corporation, under which we sell advertising on behalf of those operators. In other service areas, we enter into representation agreements under which another operator in the area will sell advertising on our behalf. These 5 arrangements enable us and our partners to deliver linear commercials across wider geographic areas, replicating the reach of local broadcast television stations to the extent possible. In addition, we enter into interconnect agreements from time to time with other cable operators, which, on behalf of a number of video operators, sells advertising time to national and regional advertisers in individual or multiple service areas. Additionally, we sell the advertising inventory of our owned and operated local sports and news channels, of our regional sports networks that carry Los Angeles Lakers basketball games and other sports programming and of SportsNet LA, a regional sports network that carries Los Angeles Dodgers baseball games and other sports programming. In 2019, we began expanding our deployment of household addressability, which allows for more precise targeting within various parts of our footprint. We also began the roll-out of our Ad Portal, which allows small businesses to purchase local cable advertising and/or creative services via our web portal with no sales personnel interaction at a fee within their budgets. Both products will be more widely deployed in 2020. They join our fully deployed Audience App, which uses our proprietary set-top box viewership data (all anonymized and aggregated) to optimize linear inventory, in our suite of advanced advertising products available to the marketplace. Other Services Regional Sports and News Networks We have an agreement with the Los Angeles Lakers for rights to distribute all locally available Los Angeles Lakers games through 2033. We broadcast those games on our regional sports network, Spectrum SportsNet. American Media Productions, LLC ("American Media Productions"), an unaffiliated third party, owns SportsNet LA, a regional sports network carrying the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball games and other sports programming. In accordance with agreements with American Media Productions, we act as the network s exclusive affiliate and advertising sales representative and have certain branding and programming rights with respect to the network. In addition, we provide certain production and technical services to American Media Productions. The affiliate, advertising, production and programming agreements continue through 2038. We also own 26.8% of Sterling Entertainment Enterprises, LLC (doing business as SportsNet New York), a New York City-based regional sports network that carries New York Mets baseball games as well as other regional sports programming. We manage 28 local news channels, including Spectrum News NY1 and LA1, 24-hour news channels focused on New York City and Los Angeles. Our local news channels provide 24/7 hyperlocal content, focusing on news, programming and storytelling that addresses the deeper needs and interests of the diverse communities and neighborhoods we serve. Pricing of Our Products and Services Our revenues are principally derived from the monthly fees customers pay for the services we provide. We typically charge a one-time installation fee which is sometimes waived or discounted in certain sales channels during certain promotional periods. Our Spectrum pricing and packaging ("SPP") generally offers a standardized price for each tier of service, bundle of services, and add-on service in a service area. We believe SPP: offers a higher quality and more value-based set of services relative to our competitors, including faster Internet speeds, more HD channels, lower equipment fees and a more transparent pricing structure; offers simplicity for customers to understand our offers, and for our employees in service delivery; drives our ability to package more services at the time of sale, thus increasing revenue per customer; drives higher customer satisfaction, lower service calls and churn; and allows for gradual price increases at the end of promotional periods. We sell video and Internet packages with the option to add on voice and mobile services at attractive pricing. Our mobile customers can choose one of two simple ways to pay for data. Customers can choose an unlimited data plan or a by-the-gig data usage plan. Both plans include free nationwide talk and text and customers can easily switch between mobile data plans during the month. Customers can also purchase mobile devices and accessory products and have the option to pay for devices under interest-free monthly installment plans. Our Network Technology Our network i