Item 1. Business . Overview 1 . Health Services 3 . Integrated Medical 8 . International Markets 13 . Group Disability and Other 16 . Investment Management 20 . Miscellaneous 20 . Regulation 20 Item 1A. Risk Factors 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 Information about our Executive Officers 47 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 48 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 50 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) 51 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 76 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 77 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 148 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 148 Item 9B . Other Information 148 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . 149 A. Directors of the Registrant 149 B. Executive Officers of the Registrant 149 C. Code of Ethics and Other Corporate Governance Disclosures 149 D. Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports 149 Item 11. Executive Compensation 149 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 150 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . 150 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 150 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 151 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 162 Signatures 163 Index to Financial Statement Schedules FS-1 Exhibits E-1 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on Cigna s current expectations and projections about future trends, events and uncertainties. These statements are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements concerning future financial or operating performance, including our ability to deliver affordable, personalized and innovative solutions for our customers and clients; future growth, business strategy, strategic or operational initiatives, including our organizational efficiency plan; economic, regulatory or competitive environments, particularly with respect to the pace and extent of change in these areas; financing or capital deployment plans and amounts available for future deployment; our prospects for growth in the coming years; strategic transactions, including the merger ( Merger ) with Express Scripts Holding Company and the sale of our Group Disability and Life business; and other statements regarding Cigna s future beliefs, expectations, plans, intentions, financial condition or performance. You may identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as believe, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, estimate, predict, potential, may, should, will or other words or expressions of similar meaning, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: our ability to achieve our financial, strategic and operational plans or initiatives; our ability to predict and manage medical and pharmacy costs and price effectively; our ability to adapt to changes or trends in an evolving and rapidly changing industry; our ability to effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors and maintain or increase market share; our ability to develop and maintain good relationships with physicians, hospitals, other health care providers, producers, consultants and pharmaceutical manufacturers; changes in the pharmacy provider marketplace or pharmacy networks; changes in drug pricing; the impact of modifications to our operations and processes; our ability to identify potential strategic acquisitions or transactions and realize the expected benefits (including anticipated synergies) of such transactions in full or within the anticipated time frame, including with respect to the Merger and sale of our Group Disability and Life business, as well as our ability to integrate or separate operations, resources and systems; the substantial level of government regulation over our business and the potential effects of new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations; the outcome of litigation, regulatory audits, investigations, actions or guaranty fund assessments; uncertainties surrounding participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare; the effectiveness and security of our information technology and other business systems and those of our key suppliers or other third parties; the impact of our debt service obligations on the availability of funds for other business purposes; unfavorable industry, economic or political conditions, including foreign currency movements; acts of civil unrest, war, terrorism, natural disasters or pandemics; reinsurance credit risk; as well as more specific risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K and as described from time to time in our future reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance or results, and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Cigna undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Cigna Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (either individually or collectively referred to as Cigna, the Company, we, our or us ) is a global health service organization. Our Mission To improve the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve Our Strategy Go Deeper: To expand and deepen our customer, client and partner relationships and create depth in targeted sub-segments and geographies Go Local: To ensure our solution suite and services meet customer, client and partner needs at a local market level Go Beyond: To innovate and further differentiate our businesses, the experiences we deliver and our overall social impact How We Win Cigna is an enterprise uniquely capable of delivering affordability, predictability and simplicity of health care to those we serve. We have broad and deep capabilities that accelerate our strategy to achieve our mission of improving the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve. Cigna s employees are champions for the people we serve and over the past decade, our focus has shifted to helping people thrive by offering solutions to prevent and better manage health challenges. When sickness or disability do occur, we support our customers ability to have broad choices in how they best access high quality, affordable care. We see three primary ways to help individuals maintain, improve or recover their physical or mental health: 1) behavioral and lifestyle changes with over 1,000 health coaches helping individuals set and meet health goals; 2) pharmaceutical interventions with our leading pharmacy services improving health and driving affordability; and 3) medical and surgical interventions with a clear and proven strategy around partnerships and value-based care programs, powered by applied informatics and aligned incentives. We maximize use of evidence-based care, while delivering best-in-class quality of care for our customers with acute and chronic conditions through enhanced real-time data across an expanded platform with industry-leading solutions to support care decisions. We offer a differentiated set of pharmacy, medical, behavioral, dental, disability, life and accident insurance and related products and services. Our capabilities include: 1) a broad portfolio of specialty services, some of which can be offered on a stand-alone basis; 2) integrated behavioral, medical and pharmacy management services; 3) leading specialty pharmacy expertise; and 4) advanced analytics that help us engage more meaningfully with individuals, plan sponsors we serve and our provider partners. These capabilities enhance Cigna s ability to drive improved cost affordability, quality of care and predictability. We put medicine within reach for patients and help providers improve access to prescription drugs by making them more affordable. We improve patient outcomes and better manage the cost of the pharmacy benefit by: Identifying products and offering innovative solutions that improve patient outcomes and control costs Evaluating medicines for efficacy, value and price to assist clients in selecting a cost-effective formulary 1 Table of Contents Offering home delivery and specialty services that save money for clients and customers while providing better and specialized clinical care Leveraging purchasing volume to deliver discounts drive risk-sharing and value-based care across the pharmaceutical supply chain Promoting the use of generics and lowest cost, clinically effective brands of medications We work with key stakeholders across the health care system to improve health outcomes and patient satisfaction, increase efficiency in drug distribution and manage costs of the pharmacy benefit. In 2019, we launched three major initiatives: 1) the Patient Assurance SM program that offers diabetic customers a low, fixed monthly out-of-pocket cost for insulin; 2) the Embarc Benefit Protection SM program that improves care, access and affordability for potentially life-changing medicines that are extremely costly and 3) our Digital Health Formulary that helps clients and customers get the most value from innovative digital health products. Plan sponsors and participants can achieve the best health and financial outcomes when they use our comprehensive set of solutions to manage drug spend. We present the financial results of our businesses in the following segments: Health Services includes pharmacy benefits management, specialty pharmacy services, clinical solutions, home delivery and health management services. Integrated Medical offers a variety of health care solutions to employers and individuals. The Commercial operating segment serves employers (also referred to as clients ) and their employees (also referred to as customers ) and other groups. This segment provides deeply integrated medical and specialty offerings including medical, pharmacy, behavioral health, dental, vision, health advocacy programs and other products and services to insured and self-insured clients. The Government operating segment offers Medicare Advantage, Medicare Supplement, and Medicare Part D plans (including the acquired Express Scripts Medicare Part D business) for seniors, Medicaid plans and individual health insurance coverage both on and off the public exchanges. International Markets includes supplemental health, life and accident insurance products and health care coverage in our international markets as well as health care benefits to globally mobile employees of multinational organizations. Group Disability and Other contains the remainder of our business operations, consisting of the following: Group Disability and Life provides group long-term and short-term disability, group life, accident, voluntary and specialty insurance products and related services. Corporate-Owned Life Insurance ( COLI ) offers permanent insurance contracts sold to corporations to provide coverage on the lives of certain employees for financing employer-paid future benefit obligations. Run-off businesses: Reinsurance: predominantly comprised of guaranteed minimum death benefit ( GMDB ) and guaranteed minimum income benefit ( GMIB ) business effectively exited through reinsurance with Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska ( Berkshire ) in 2013. Settlement Annuity business in run-off. Individual Life Insurance and Annuity and Retirement Benefits Businesses: comprised of deferred gains from the sales of these businesses. Other Information The financial information included in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 is in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ) unless otherwise indicated. In the segment discussions that follow, we use the terms adjusted revenues and pre-tax adjusted income from operations to describe segment results. See the introduction to the Management Discussion and Analysis section of this Form 10-K for definitions of those terms. Industry rankings and percentages set forth herein are for the year ended December 31, 2019 unless otherwise indicated. In addition, statements set forth in this document concerning our rank or position in an industry or particular line of business have been developed internally based on publicly available information unless otherwise noted. 2 Table of Contents Cigna Holding Company (formerly Cigna Corporation) was incorporated in Delaware in 1981. Halfmoon Parent, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in March 2018. Halfmoon Parent, Inc. was renamed Cigna Corporation concurrent with the consummation of the combination with Express Scripts on December 20, 2018. You can access our website at http://www.cigna.com to learn more about our company. We make annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements and amendments to those reports available, free of charge through our website (http://www.cigna.com, under the Investors Quarterly Reports and SEC Filings captions) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). We also use our website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under the SEC s Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cigna is routinely posted on and accessible at http://www.cigna.com . Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is neither incorporated by reference into nor a part of this report. See also Code of Ethics and Other Corporate Governance Disclosures in Part III, Item 10 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the availability of our Codes of Ethics on our website. HEALTH SERVICES This segment consists of pharmacy benefit management, home delivery and specialty pharmacy and certain health management services. In 2019, Health Services reported adjusted revenues of $96.4 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $5.1 billion. HOW WE WIN Creating innovative solutions that improve patient outcomes and control costs Evaluating medicines for efficacy, value and price to assist clients in selecting a cost-effective formulary Offering home delivery and specialty services that save money for clients and customers, while providing better and specialized clinical care Leveraging purchasing volume to deliver discounts and drive risk-sharing and value-based care across the pharmaceutical supply chain Promoting the use of generics and lowest-cost, clinically effective brands of medications 3 Table of Contents The following chart depicts a high-level summary of our principal products and services in this segment with definitions on subsequent pages. Principal Products Services Brands/ Subsidiaries Key Relationships Primary Competitors Pharmacy Dispensing Accredo , Therapeutic Resource Centers , Express Scripts Pharmacy SM , Cigna Home Delivery Pharmacy Clients, Customers, Providers Independent Pharmacy Benefit Managers ( PBMs ), Managed Care PBMs, Retail Pharmacies, Specialty Pharmacies Supply Chain Administration and Management Express Scripts, Smart90 , SmartShareRx , Ascent Health Services, Econdisc Clients, Customers Independent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs, Third Party Benefit Administrators, Group Purchasing Organizations Clinical Solutions Health Connect 360 SM , Advanced Utilization Management, Express Scripts Digital Health Formulary, Fraud, Waste Abuse Clients, Customers Independent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs, Third-Party Benefit Administrators Value-Based Programs SafeGuardRx , Express Scripts Patient Assurance SM ,Embarc Benefit Protection SM Clients, Customers Independent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs Provider Services CuraScript SD Health Care Providers, Clinics, Hospitals Specialty Drug Distributors Health Benefit Management Services eviCore Health Plans, Commercial and Government Payors Health Plans, Third-Party Benefits Administrators, Clinical Solutions and Health Care Data Analytics Companies Principal Products Services Pharmacy Benefit Management Services : Our services drive high-quality, cost-effective care through prescription drug utilization and cost management . We support our clients plan design selections to deliver balanced affordability, choice, simplicity and convenience. We focus our solutions to align with our clients needs across care, cost and service. As a result, we believe we deliver better outcomes, higher customer satisfaction and a more affordable prescription drug benefit. The home delivery pharmacy operations of our Health Services segment consist of eight order processing pharmacies, eight patient contact centers and four high-volume automated home delivery dispensing pharmacies located throughout the United States. Health Services home delivery dispensing pharmacies are located in Arizona, Indiana, Missouri and New Jersey. Health Services also has seven specialty home delivery pharmacies and 38 specialty branch pharmacies. Pharmacy Dispensing: o Home Delivery Pharmacy Services : In addition to the order processing that occurs at our home delivery pharmacies, we operate several non-dispensing prescription processing facilities and customer contact centers. Our pharmacies provide greater safety and accuracy than retail pharmacies, convenient access to maintenance medications and better management of our clients drug costs through operating efficiencies. We are directly involved with the prescriber and customer through our home delivery pharmacies and our research shows that we achieve a higher level of generic substitutions, therapeutic interventions and better adherence than is achieved through retail pharmacy networks. o Specialty Pharmacy Services : Specialty medications are used primarily for the treatment of complex diseases. These medications are broadly characterized to include those with frequent dosing adjustments, intensive clinical monitoring, the need for customer training, specialized product administration requirements or medications limited to certain specialty pharmacy networks by manufacturers. Through a combination of assets and capabilities, we provide an enhanced level of predictable care and therapy management for customers taking specialty medications and increased visibility and improved outcomes for payors, as well as custom programs for biopharmaceutical manufacturers. Accredo Health Group ( Accredo ) is focused on dispensing injectable, infused, oral or inhaled drugs that require a higher level of clinical service and support than traditional pharmacies typically offer. Accredo supports successful outcomes for c 4 Table of Contents ustomers and reduces waste for clients through specialty trained clinicians, a nationwide footprint, and a network of in-home nursing services, reimbursement and customer assistance programs and biopharmaceutical services. o Drug Claim Adjudication : We process drug claims for home delivery, specialty, or retail networks by integrating retail network pharmacy administration, benefit design consultation, drug utilization review, drug formulary management and pharmacy fulfillment services. We administer payments to retail networks and bill benefits costs to our clients through our end-to-end adjudication services. o Drug Utilization Review program : When pharmacies submit claims for prescription drugs to us, we review them electronically in real time for health and safety. We then alert the dispensing pharmacy of any detected issues. Clients may also choose to enroll in programs that result in communications about potential therapy concerns being sent to prescribers after the initial claim submission. Supply Chain Administration and Management : o Retail Network Pharmacy Administration : We contract with retail pharmacies to provide prescription drugs to customers of the pharmacy benefit plans we manage. In the United States, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, we negotiate with pharmacies to discount drug prices provided to customers and manage national and regional networks responsive to client preferences related to cost containment, convenience of access for customers and network performance. We also manage networks of pharmacies customized for or under direct contract with specific clients and have contracted with pharmacy provider networks to comply with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) access requirements for the federal Medicare Part D prescription drug program ( Medicare Part D ). All retail pharmacies in our network communicate with us online and in real-time to process prescription drug claims. When a plan customer presents their identification card at a network pharmacy, the pharmacy sends specific customer, prescriber and prescription information in an industry-standard format through our systems, which process the claim and respond to the pharmacy with relevant information to process the prescription. o Benefits Design Consultation : We consult with our clients on how best to structure and leverage the pharmacy benefit to meet plan objectives for affordable access to the prescription medications people need to stay healthy, and ensure the safe and effective use of those medications. o Drug Formulary Management : Formularies are lists of drugs with designations that may be used to determine drug coverage, customer out-of-pocket costs and communicate plan preferences in competitive drug categories. Our formulary management services support clients in establishing formularies that assist customers and physicians in choosing clinically-appropriate, cost-effective drugs and prioritize access, safety and affordability. We administer specific formularies on behalf of our clients, including standard formularies developed and offered by Express Scripts and custom formularies in which we play a more limited role. Most of our clients select standard formularies, governed by our National Pharmacy Therapeutics Committee comprised of a panel of independent physicians and pharmacists in active clinical practice representing a variety of specialties and practice settings, typically with major academic affiliations. In making formulary recommendations, this committee considers only the drug s safety and efficacy and not the cost of the drug, including any negotiated manufacturer discount or rebate arrangement. This process is designed to ensure the clinical recommendation is not affected by our financial arrangements. We fully comply with this committee s clinical recommendations regarding drugs that must be included or excluded from the formulary based on their assessment of safety and efficacy. o Administration of Group Purchasing Organizations : Express Scripts operates various group purchasing organizations that negotiate pricing for the purchase of pharmaceuticals, fees and formulary rebates with pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of their participants. They also provide various administrative services to their participants including management and reporting. Clinical Solutions : We offer innovative clinical programs to help our clients drive better health outcomes at a lower cost by identifying and addressing potentially unsafe or wasteful prescribing, dispensing and use of prescription drugs and communicating with, or supporting communications with, physicians, pharmacies and customers. o Our Health Connect 360 SM offering is a transformational, outcomes based clinical management program that bridges pharmacy, medical, lab and patient engagement data to develop insights and deliver personalized health care interventions. Clinical outcomes and quality metrics are tailored to client needs and guaranteed. o Through the Express Scripts Digital Health Formulary SM offering, we evaluate digital health solutions available on the market, providing a list to clients of solutions that provide clinical effectiveness, data security, user-friendly experience and financial value. o Advanced Utilization Management programs are the number-one tool for decreasing client spend on pharmacy. These include prior authorization, drug quantity management, step therapy and preferred specialty management. o Enhanced Fraud, Waste Abuse is an investigative service program that helps plan sponsors identify potential problem customers and prescribers with unusual or excessive utilization patterns. The program is designed to help identify outliers and situations of abnormal use or prescribing patterns by analyzing types of prescriptions, refill patterns and pharmacy utilization. 5 Table of Contents Other solutions include RationalMed , ScreenRx , Express Alliance , Advanced Opioid Management , and OnePA SM offerings, as well as Medication Therapy and Medical Benefit Drug Management. Value-Based Programs: o SafeGuardRx : We offer a solution platform aimed at therapy classes that pose significant budgetary threats and clinical challenges to patients. Our solutions are designed to keep our clients ahead of the cost curve while providing customers the personalized care and access they need. These solutions are offered throughout our pharmacy benefit management services and include, but are not limited to care for: cardiovascular, diabetes, hepatitis, inflammatory conditions, migraine, multiple sclerosis, oncology, pulmonary, and rare conditions. Innovative programs, such as our SafeGuardRx program, combine utilization management controls with formulary management, the specialized care model of our Therapeutic Resource Center program and comprehensive guarantees, and help us to change the market in key categories. Through our Therapeutic Resource Center offering, we provide caring for customers with the most complex and costly chronic conditions including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, HIV, asthma, depression and other rare and specialty conditions. These services optimize the safe and appropriate dispensing of therapeutic agents, minimize waste and improve clinical and financial outcomes. Through these services, specialist pharmacists provide the expert, personalized care that customers increasingly demand. Notably, our programs covering oncology and inflammatory conditions have introduced a value-based contracting approach with payments now tied to a product s effectiveness. o Patient Assurance Program SM : This program addresses the need for greater affordability and access to insulin by providing a fixed out-of-pocket cost to customers in non-government funded benefit plans. o Embarc Benefit Protection SM : This program combines health benefit management, health services and specialty pharmacy capabilities to make emerging gene therapy treatments more affordable for the payor, the employer and the patient. Provider Services : CuraScript SD is a specialty distributor of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies (including injectable and infusible pharmaceuticals and medications to treat specialty and rare or orphan diseases) directly to health care providers, clinics and hospitals in the United States for office or clinic administration. Through this business, we provide distribution services primarily to office and clinic-based physicians who treat customers with chronic diseases and regularly order costly specialty pharmaceuticals. This business provides competitive pricing on pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, operates three distribution centers and ships most products overnight within the United States; it also provides distribution capabilities to Puerto Rico and Guam. It is a contracted supplier with most major group purchasing organizations and leverages our distribution platform to operate as a third-party logistics provider for several pharmaceutical companies. Health Benefit Management Services : eviCore is a leading provider of integrated health benefit management solutions that focus on driving adherence to evidence-based guidelines, improving the quality of patient outcomes and reducing the cost of care for our clients. eviCore manages: diagnostic imaging, comprehensive musculoskeletal disorders, sleep disorders, post-acute care, genetic lab, specialty pharmacy and medical oncology. eviCore contracts with health plans and other commercial and government payors to promote the appropriate use of health care services by the customers they serve. In certain instances, this occurs through capitated risk arrangements, when we assume the financial obligation for the cost of health care services provided to eligible customers covered by eviCore health care management programs. Customers Clients : We provide s