Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 43 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 44 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 65 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 112 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B. Other Information 113 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 113 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 115 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 115 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 115 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 Signatures 117 Index to Exhibits 118 2 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains statements that discuss future events or expectations, projections of results of operations or financial condition, changes in the markets for our products and services, trends in our business, business prospects and strategies and other forward-looking information. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words like may, will, would, can, should, could, expects, future, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, intends, potential, projects, targets, or continue or the negative of those words and other comparable words. These statements may relate to, among other things, our competitive landscape; market conditions and growth opportunities; factors impacting our industry and markets, including global supply chain constraints; factors impacting the businesses of network operators and their network architectures; adoption of next-generation infrastructures that are more open, programmable and automated; our strategy, including our research and development, supply chain and go-to-market initiatives; efforts to increase application of our solutions in customer networks and to increase the reach of our business into new or growing customer and geographic markets; our backlog and seasonality in our business; expectations for our financial results, revenue, gross margin, operating expense and key operating measures in future periods; the adequacy of our sources of liquidity to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures and other liquidity requirements; business initiatives including information technology ( IT ) transitions or initiatives; the impact of COVID-19 on our business, financial results and operations; the impact of changes in tax law and our effective tax rates; and market risks associated with financial instruments and foreign currency exchange rates. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, and actual events or results may differ materially from any future results, activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including due to factors such as those set forth below in Risk Factors Summary. For a discussion of additional important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Risk Factors in this annual report. We operate in a very competitive and dynamic environment and new risks and uncertainties emerge, are identified or become apparent from time to time and therefore may not be identified in this annual report. We cannot predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. You should be aware that the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are based on our current views and assumptions. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements made in this annual report to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. The forward-looking statements in this annual report are intended to be subject to protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report to Ciena, the Company, we, us and our refer to Ciena Corporation. Risk Factors Summary Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, as more fully described below in the section titled Risk Factors. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. In addition to this summary, you should consider the information set forth in the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this annual report before investing in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our revenue, gross margin and operating results can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter. Challenges relating to current supply chain constraints, including semiconductor components, could adversely impact our growth, gross margins and financial results. We have recently been experiencing unprecedented demand, and our backlog may not be an accurate indicator of our level and timing of future revenues. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of these customers or a significant reduction in their spending could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations, and we expect the competitive landscape in which we operate to continue to broaden to include additional solutions providers. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our business and results of operation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future. Investment of research and development resources in communications networking technologies for which there is not an adequate market demand, or failure to invest sufficiently or timely in technologies for which there is high market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We have no guaranteed purchases and regularly must re-win business for existing customers. 3 Table of Contents Network equipment sales often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations that may require us to agree to commercial terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, risk allocation, payment and the timing of revenue recognition. If we are unable to adapt our business to the consumption models for networking solutions adopted by our customers and to offer attractive solutions across these consumption models, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our go-to-market activities and the distribution of our WaveLogic coherent modem technology within the market for high-performance transceivers/modems could expose us to increased or new forms of competition, or adversely affect our existing systems business and results of operations. Accurately matching necessary inventory levels to customer demand within the current environment is challenging, and we may incur additional costs or be required to write off significant inventory that would adversely impact our results of operations. If the market for network software does not evolve in the way we anticipate or if customers do not adopt our Blue Planet Automation Software and Services, we may not be able to monetize these software assets and realize a key part of our business strategy. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely affect our operating results. Product performance problems and undetected errors affecting the performance, interoperability, reliability or security of our products could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. Strategic acquisitions and investments could disrupt our operations and may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. Risks Relating to the Macroeconomic Environment and our Global Presence Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of spending by customers in response to these conditions. The international scale of our sales and operations exposes us to additional risk and expense that could adversely affect our results of operations. Efforts to increase our sales and capture market share in targeted international markets may be unsuccessful. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Operations and Reliance on Third Parties We may experience delays in the development and production of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with their businesses, financial condition and the geographies in which they operate. Our reliance on third-party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, exposes our business to additional risk, including risk relating to our suppliers businesses and financial position and risks arising as a result of geopolitical events, and could limit our sales, increase our costs and harm our customer relationships. We rely on third-party resellers and distribution partners to sell our solutions, and on third-party service partners for installation, maintenance and support functions, and our failure to develop and manage these relationships effectively could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and relationships with our customers. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies. Growth of our business is dependent on the proper functioning and scalability of our internal business processes and information systems. Adoption of new systems, modifications or interruptions of services may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Litigation, Regulation and Government Policy Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce. We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties, and our business would be adversely affected if this technology were no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Data security breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business, reputation and operational capacity. We are a party to legal proceedings, investigations and other claims or disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures, or prevent us from taking certain actions, any of which could adversely affect our business. 4 Table of Contents Changes in trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs, increased export control and investment restrictions, and efforts to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, as well as other regulatory efforts impacting the import and sale of foreign equipment, may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Changes in government regulations affecting the communications and technology industries and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. The effects of the United Kingdom s withdrawal from membership in the European Union remain uncertain. Government regulations related to the environment, climate change and social initiatives could adversely affect our business and operating results. Changes in tax law or regulation, effective tax rates and other adverse outcomes with taxing authorities could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock, Indebtedness and Investments Our stock price is volatile. Outstanding indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities and senior unsecured notes may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations and could limit our business. Significant volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets may limit our access to funding on favorable terms or at all. Item 1. Business Overview We are a networking systems, services and software company, providing solutions that enable a wide range of network operators to deploy and manage next-generation networks that deliver services to businesses and consumers. We provide hardware, software and services that support the delivery of video, data and voice traffic over core, metro, aggregation and access communications networks. Our solutions are used globally by communications service providers, cable and multiservice operators, Web-scale providers, submarine network operators, governments, and enterprises across multiple industry verticals. Our portfolio is designed to enable the Adaptive Network , which is our vision for a network end state that leverages a programmable and scalable network infrastructure, driven by software control and automation capabilities, that are informed by analytics and intelligence. By transforming network infrastructures into dynamic, programmable environments driven by automation and analytics, network operators can realize greater business agility, dynamically adapt to changing end-user service demands and rapidly introduce new revenue-generating services. They can also gain valuable real-time network insights, allowing them to optimize network performance and maximize the return on their network infrastructure investment. Our solutions include Networking Platforms, including our Converged Packet Optical and Routing and Switching portfolios, which can be applied from the network core to end-user access points, and which allow network operators to scale capacity, increase transmission speeds, allocate traffic efficiently and adapt dynamically to changing end-user service demands. Our Converged Packet Optical portfolio includes products that support long haul and regional networks, submarine and data center interconnect networks, and metro and edge networks. Our Routing and Switching portfolio includes products and solutions that enable efficient internet protocol ( IP ) transport in next-generation metro edge, access and aggregation networks. To complement our Networking Platforms, we offer Platform Software, which includes our Manage, Control and Plan ( MCP ) applications that deliver advanced multi-layer domain control and operations. Through our Blue Planet Software we also enable complete service lifecycle management automation with productized operational support systems ( OSS ) and service assurance solutions that help our customers to achieve closed loop automation across multi-vendor and multi-domain environments. In addition to our systems and software, we also offer a broad range of services that help our customers build, operate and improve their networks and associated operational environments. These include network transformation, consulting, implementation, systems integration, maintenance, network operations center ( NOC ) management, learning, and optimization services. Recent and Pending Acquisitions In the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Tibit Communications, Inc., a provider of passive optical network solutions, and we completed our acquisition of Benu Networks, Inc., a provider of broadband network gateway software. See Note 28, Subsequent Events to to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report for additional information. 5 Table of Contents Industry Background Network Traffic Growth and Increased Capacity Requirements The market in which we sell is dynamic and characterized by a high rate of change. Optical networks which carry video, data and voice traffic by encoding digital information on multiple wavelengths of light traveling across fiber optic cables have experienced strong traffic growth. This network traffic growth is being driven by a diverse set of communications services that often require on-demand service levels by enterprise and consumer end users, as well as cloud-based services and applications: Cloud-Based Services. Enterprises and consumers continue to replace locally-housed computing and storage by adopting a broad array of innovative cloud-based models including Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service (SaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and an expanding range of cloud-based services that host key applications, store data, enable the viewing and downloading of content, and utilize on-demand computing resources. In addition, content is increasingly moving to the network edge, creating new capacity and traffic demands closer to the user. Over-the-Top ( OTT ) Services and Video Streaming . OTT content refers to video, multimedia and other applications provided directly from the content source to the viewer or end user across a third-party network. Traffic from streaming and OTT services, including high definition and ultra-high definition video, has expanded with the increased availability of, and end-user demand for, video content accessible through a variety of devices and media. Mobile Traffic and Applications. Traffic from mobile web applications, including video, internet and data services, has expanded with the continued proliferation of smartphones and other wireless devices. Because much of wireless traffic ultimately travels across a wireline network to reach its destination, growth in mobile communications continues to place demands upon wireline networks, including the backhaul and fronthaul portions of networks emanating from cell sites. Residential Access Applications and Enterprise Applications. In recent years there has been a shift in bandwidth demands, traffic patterns and computing functions to the edge of networks. This trend has been meaningfully accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic, including due to an increase in remote and hybrid working, distance learning, and work from home arrangements. With a higher percentage of data flows concentrating closer to the network edge, more capacity and higher bandwidth to home and enterprise locations is required. These shifts could be permanent, and could influence network architectures and require network operators to adapt. Emerging technologies, services and applications are further impacting or expected to impact network infrastructures, particularly at the edge of networks, where increased computing power and automation are required to meet the quality of experience required by end users. These include: 5G . Fifth-generation wireless broadband ( 5G ) technology is enabling meaningful increases in bandwidth and performance, and enabling emerging applications and services that 4G/LTE networks cannot support. To fully capitalize on these opportunities, network operators will need to consider the demands 5G technology will place on their wireline infrastructures, including through the addition of additional cell sites as part of the network densification efforts that are paving the way for 5G implementation. Fiber-Based Access Networks . Network densification initiatives by cable and multiservice operators seek to push more digital fiber closer to the end user in an effort to increase potential bandwidth, computing capability and data speeds to homes and enterprises, while decreasing power, space and operating costs. Wireline service providers are responding to similar service and end customer demands by extending fiber to the home and deeper into access networks. Internet of Things ( IoT ) . As networked connections between devices and servers grow, machine-to-machine-related traffic ( M2M ) is expected to represent an increasing portion of traffic. These connections allow sharing of data that can be monitored and analyzed, including in smart grid applications, health care and safety monitoring, resource and inventory management, home entertainment, consumer appliances, connected transportation and other M2M data applications. Immersive Technologies and Ultra-High Definition Video ( UHD ). Immersive technologies like virtual reality ( VR ), augmented reality ( AR ), interactive experiences, gaming and 360 video, as well as UHD (4K and 8K) video, are likely to place further capacity demands on networks as adoption of these technologies grows. Consumer electronics and other technology companies are rapidly advancing these applications,which require high bandwidth and low latency, and making the associated devices more widely available and affordable to consumers. 6 Table of Contents Edge Computing . To provide end user s with the required experience for a growing set of immersive cloud services, network operators have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, the number and capabilities of edge computing locations to allow these latency-sensitive workloads to be processed closer to users. These changes at the edge of networks may affect network topologies, demands and traffic patterns. Machine Learning ( ML ) and Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) . By increasing network intelligence and improving automation, ML and AI can enable improvements in network planning, operations, user experience and trouble resolution. Adoption of these technologies is expected to continue to increase as the IoT expands and additional services are created, and ML and AI will serve as drivers of further network traffic and solutions innovation. We believe that increased adoption of these technologies, services, and applications and their performance requirements will further increase network traffic and place additional service challenges on network infrastructures, requiring network operators to invest in their metro, access and aggregation networks, as well as their core networks. Demand for More Programmable and Automated Networks To create a more digital experience for their end users, reduce operational costs and introduce more service agility, network operators are investing in next-generation infrastructures that combine end-to-end service automation with the deployment of highly programmable infrastructures. We expect network operators will continue to pursue strategies that emphasize one or more of the following: Closed Loop Automation. Network operators are seeking to reduce network operating costs and better leverage analytics and control capabilities to automate end-to-end service creation and operation. Closed loop automation is a continuous cycle of communications between the programmable network infrastructure and software control elements to analyze network conditions, traffic demands, and resource availability to determine the best placement of traffic or network functions to deliver optimal service quality and resource utilization. Software-Defined Networking ( SDN ). SDN seeks to simplify networks to create more open environments that ease management, support automation and quickly deliver services to end users. SDN enables individual network elements to be directly programmable by standards-based software control. This results in end-to-end visibility of network flows, and the optimization of traffic paths and the control of data flows through a network. Network Function Virtualization ( NFV ) . NFV is the separation of network services or capabilities from the physical network assets that traditionally provide these services or capabilities to end users. To accelerate the introduction of new services, network operators are increasingly using solutions like NFV, which enables network functions that traditionally would have run on specialized or dedicated hardware to be provided through software that runs on industry-standard servers and network and storage platforms. We believe that adoption of these strategies, and the related evolution of core, metro, aggregation and access network infrastructures, will require network operators and their network solutions vendors to increasingly look to utilize an ecosystem of both physical and virtual network resources, optimized through software. We expect that these network architectural approaches, in turn, will require an increased degree of cooperation, collaboration and interoperability among networking solutions vendors. Different Approaches to Design and Procure Network Infrastructure Solutions Network operators are pursuing a diverse range of approaches, or consumption models, in their design and procurement of network infrastructure solutions. In addition to purchasing fully integrated network solutions including hardware, software and services from the same vendor, new consumption models include the procurement or use of: a fully integrated infrastructure solution from one vendor with the separate use of a network operator s own software or that of another vendor; integrated photonic line systems with open interfaces from one vendor and the separate or disaggregated procurement of modem technology from a different vendor; open source software in concert with or as an alternative to integrated, proprietary third-party software solutions; open IP network operating systems running on off-the-shelf third-party equipment; and system integration services or customer self-integration to reconstitute the disaggregated components. Some network operators, including certain of our largest customers, have adopted or are pursuing development and use of published reference designs and open source specifications for the procurement of off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware (often referred to as white box hardware). This commoditized hardware could be used with in-house developed data path and 7 Table of Contents control software or third-party developed network operating software. Further, some network operators are pursuing network strategies that emphasize the deployment of smaller form factor, pluggable modem technology, that can be housed in a switch or router platform, or used in place of a modem in a traditional optical system. The consumption models that ultimately emerge and their level of adoption will depend in significant part on the circumstances and strategies of certain network operators. While the adoption of these approaches has been limited to date, we expect that continued customer consideration of a variety of consumption models will require network operators and vendors alike to assess, and possibly broaden, their offerings and commercial models over time, thereby placing a premium on a vendor s ability to provide robust network solutions with the maximum amount of flexibility and choice. Supply Chain Constraints In the face of extraordinary demand across a range of industries, global supply for certain raw materials and components, including, in particular, semiconductor, integrated circuits and other electronic components, has experienced substantial constraint and disruption in recent periods. These conditions are impacting a wide range of industries and, across the networking industry, participants are experiencing component shortages, extended lead times, increased costs, and unexpected cancellation or delay of previously committed supply. We believe these supply chain challenges and their adverse impact on our industry will continue at least through fiscal 2023 and expect that the extended lead times and elevated supply chain costs experienced by our industry will persist for the reasonably foreseeable future. It is unclear when the supply environment will become less volatile and what impacts the supply environment will have on the industry in future periods. Product Development and Sustainability As network traffic and service expansion continue to grow, network operators are looking toward technology innovation as a means to help support their business models and prepare for a low carbon future. Network operators are increasingly looking to their technology vendor partners to help them manage the environmental impact of their networks, including energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, and equipment refurbishment and recycling. For innovation leaders capable of advancing a development strategy and product roadmap that addresses the network performance and sustainab