Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2. Properties 42 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 43 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 44 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 45 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 68 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 115 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 116 Item 9B. Other Information 116 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 117 Item 11. Executive Compensation 117 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 117 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 117 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 117 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 118 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 118 Signatures 119 Index to Exhibits 120 2 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains statements that discuss future events or expectations, projections of results of operations or financial condition, changes in the markets for our products and services, trends in our business, business prospects and strategies and other forward-looking information. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words like may, will, can, should, could, expects, future, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, intends, potential, projects, targets, or continue or the negative of those words and other comparable words. These statements may relate to, among other things, the impact of COVID-19 on our business, financial results and operations; our competitive landscape; market conditions and growth opportunities; factors impacting our industry and markets; factors impacting the businesses of network operators and their network architectures; adoption of next-generation infrastructures that are more open, programmable and automated; our strategy, including our research and development, supply chain and go-to-market initiatives; efforts to increase application of our solutions in customer networks and to increase the reach of our business into new or growing customer and geographic markets; our backlog and seasonality in our business; expectations for our financial results, revenue, gross margin, operating expense and key operating measures in future periods; the adequacy of our sources of liquidity to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures and other liquidity requirements; business initiatives including information technology ( IT ) transitions or initiatives; the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act ) and changes in our effective tax rates; and market risks associated with financial instruments and foreign currency exchange rates. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, and actual events or results may differ materially. For a discussion of additional important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Risk Factors in this annual report. However, we operate in a very competitive and dynamic environment and new risks and uncertainties emerge, are identified or become apparent from time to time. We cannot predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. You should be aware that the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are based on our current views and assumptions. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements made in this annual report to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. The forward-looking statements in this annual report are intended to be subject to protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report to Ciena, the Company, we, us and our refer to Ciena Corporation. Risk Factors Summary Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, all of which are more fully described below in the section titled Risk Factors. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. In addition to the following summary, you should consider the information set forth in the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this annual report before investing in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our business and results of operation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future. COVID-19-related restrictions on travel and gatherings could adversely impact our ability to compete for business, particularly with customers where we are not an incumbent supplier. Our revenue, gross margin and operating results can fluctuate significantly and unpredictably from quarter to quarter. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of these customers or a significant reduction in their spending could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face intense competition that could hurt our sales and results of operations, and we expect the competitive landscape in which we operate to continue to broaden to include additional solutions providers. Investment of research and development resources in communications networking technologies for which there is not an adequate market demand, or failure to sufficiently or timely invest in technologies for which there is market demand, would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We have no guaranteed purchases and regularly have to re-win business for existing customers. Network equipment sales often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations that may require us to agree to commercial terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, risk allocation, payment and the timing of revenue recognition. 3 Table of Contents If the market for network software does not evolve in the way we anticipate or if customers do not adopt our Blue Planet Automation Software and Services, we may not be able to monetize these software assets and realize a key part of our business strategy. If we are unable to adapt our business to the consumption models for networking solutions adopted by our customers and to offer attractive solutions across these consumption models, our business, competitive position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our go-to-market activities and the distribution of our WaveLogic coherent modem technology within the merchant modem market could expose us to increased or new forms of competition, or adversely affect our existing systems business and results of operations. If we fail to accurately predict demand, we may be required to write off significant amounts of inventory as a result of our inventory purchase practices and could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely affect our operating results. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies. Product performance problems and undetected errors affecting the performance, interoperability, reliability or security of our products could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. Strategic acquisitions and investments could disrupt our operations and may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. Risks Relating to the Macroeconomic Environment and our Global Presence Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and reductions in the level of spending by customers in response to these conditions. The international scale of our sales and operations exposes us to additional risk and expense that could adversely affect our results of operations. Efforts to increase our sales and capture market share in targeted international markets may be unsuccessful. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Operations and Reliance on Third Parties We may experience delays in the development and production of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with their businesses, financial condition and the geographies in which they operate. Our reliance on third-party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, exposes our business to additional risk and could limit our sales, increase our costs and harm our customer relationships. Our reliance on certain third-party suppliers exposes us to certain risks relating to their businesses and financial position that, in turn, could disrupt our business or limit our sales. We rely on third-party resellers and distribution partners to sell our solutions, and our failure to develop and manage these relationships effectively could adversely affect our business and result of operations. Our failure to manage our relationships with third-party service partners effectively could adversely impact our financial results and relationships with customers. Growth of our business is dependent on the proper functioning and scalability of our internal business processes and information systems. Adoption of new systems, modifications or interruptions of services may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or if our existing personnel are harmed by COVID-19, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Litigation, Regulation and Government Policy Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce. We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties, and our business would be adversely affected if this technology were no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Data security breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business and reputation. We are a party to legal proceedings, investigations and other claims or disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any of which could adversely affect our business. 4 Table of Contents Changes in trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and efforts to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Changes in government regulations affecting the communications and technology industries and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. The effects of the United Kingdom s withdrawal from membership in the European Union remain uncertain. Government regulations related to the environment, climate change and social initiatives could adversely affect our business and operating results. Changes in effective tax rates and other adverse outcomes with taxing authorities could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock, Indebtedness and Investments Our stock price is volatile. Outstanding indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations and could limit our business. Significant volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets may limit our access to funding on favorable terms or at all. Item 1. Business Overview We are a networking systems, services and software company, providing solutions that enable a wide range of network operators to deploy and manage next-generation networks that deliver services to businesses and consumers. We provide hardware, software and services that enable the transport, routing, switching, aggregation, service delivery and management of video, data and voice traffic on communications networks. Our solutions are used by communications service providers, cable and multiservice operators, Web-scale providers, submarine network operators, governments, enterprises, research and education institutions and emerging network operators. Our solutions include Networking Platforms, including our Converged Packet Optical and Packet Networking portfolios, which can be applied from the network core to end-user access points, and which allow network operators to scale capacity, increase transmission speeds, allocate traffic and adapt dynamically to changing end-user service demands. Our Converged Packet Optical portfolio includes products and solutions that support the connection of content to content and users to content, including in long haul and regional, submarine and data center interconnect networks. Our Packet Networking portfolio includes products and solutions that enable next-generation metro, access and aggregation networks, connecting users to content in applications that include 5G, mobile backhaul, virtualization and enterprise services. To complement these solutions, we offer Platform Software, which provides management, domain control and specialized applications that automate network lifecycle operations, including provisioning equipment and services, network data, analytics and policy-based assurance to achieve closed loop automation across multi-vendor and multi-domain network environments. Through our Blue Planet Software suite, we enable customers to transform their business and operations support systems ( OSS ) through software-based automation of their network and IT infrastructures. To complement our hardware and software products, we offer a broad range of services that help our customers build, operate and improve their networks and associated operational environments, including network optimization and migration offerings. We refer to our complete portfolio vision as the Adaptive Network . The Adaptive Network emphasizes a programmable network infrastructure, software control and automation capabilities, network analytics and intelligence, and related advanced services. By transforming network infrastructures into a dynamic, programmable environment driven by automation and analytics, network operators can realize greater business agility, dynamically adapt to changing end-user service demands and rapidly introduce new revenue-generating services. They can also gain valuable real-time network insights, allowing them to optimize network operation and maximize the return on their network infrastructure investment. Access to SEC Reports Our website address is www.ciena.com. We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, available free of charge in the Investors section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). We routinely post these reports, recent news and announcements, financial results and other important information about our business on our website at www.ciena.com. Information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report. Industry Background 5 Table of Contents Network Traffic Growth and Increased Capacity Requirements The markets in which we sell are dynamic and are characterized by a high rate of change. Optical networks which carry video, data and voice traffic by encoding digital information on multiple wavelengths of light traveling across fiber optic cables have experienced strong traffic growth. This network traffic growth is being driven by a diverse set of communications services that often require on-demand service levels by their enterprise and consumer end users: Cloud-Based Services. Enterprises and consumers continue to replace locally-housed computing and storage by adopting a broad array of innovative cloud-based models including Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service (SaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and an expanding range of cloud-based services that host key applications, store data, enable the viewing and downloading of content, and utilize on-demand computing resources. Over-the-Top ( OTT ) Services and Video Streaming . OTT content refers to video, multimedia and other applications provided directly from the content source to the viewer or end user across a third-party network. Traffic from streaming and OTT services, including high definition and ultra-high definition video, has expanded with the increased availability of, and end-user demand for, video content accessible through a variety of devices and media. Mobile Traffic and Applications. Traffic from mobile web applications, including video, internet and data services, has expanded with the continued proliferation of smartphones and other wireless devices. Because much of wireless traffic ultimately travels across a wireline network to reach its destination, growth in mobile communications continues to place demands upon wireline networks, including the backhaul and fronthaul portions of networks emanating from cell sites. Emerging services and applications are further impacting or expected to impact network infrastructures, particularly at the edge of networks, where increased computing power and automation are required to meet the quality of experience required by end users. These include: 5G Mobile Networks . Fifth-generation wireless broadband ( 5G ) technology is expected to enable meaningful increases in bandwidth and performance, enabling emerging applications and services that 4G/LTE networks cannot support. To fully capitalize on these opportunities, network operators will need to consider the demands 5G technology will place on their wireline infrastructures, including through the addition of additional cell sites as part of the network densification efforts that are paving the way for 5G implementation. Fiber Deep . Similar to 5G, Fiber Deep is a network densification initiative by cable and multiservice operators that seeks to push more digital fiber closer to the end user and to increase potential bandwidth, computing capability and data speeds to homes and enterprises, while at the same time decreasing power, space and operating costs. Internet of Things ( IoT ) . As networked connections between devices and servers grow, machine-to-machine-related traffic ( M2M ) is expected to represent an increasing portion of traffic. These connections allow sharing of data that can be monitored and analyzed, including in smart grid applications, health care and safety monitoring, resource and inventory management, home entertainment, consumer appliances, connected transportation and other M2M data applications. Ultra-High Definition Video ( UHD ) and Virtual Reality ( VR ) and Augmented Reality ( AR ). UHD video and the advent of immersive technologies like VR, AR and 360 video are likely to place further capacity and capability demands on networks as adoption of these technologies grows. Consumer electronics industries are rapidly advancing these technologies and making them more widely available and affordable to consumers. Edge Computing . Immersive cloud services and gaming using AR and VR technologies require a low latency environment to provide the required user experience. We expect network operators to increase the number and capabilities of edge computing locations to allow these latency-sensitive workloads to be processed closer to users, which may affect network topologies and traffic patterns. Machine Learning ( ML ) and Artificial Intelligence ( AI ) . As broad foundational technologies that increase network intelligence and improve automation, ML and AI enable improvements in network planning, operations, user experience and trouble resolution. We believe that adoption of these technologies will continue to increase as the IoT expands and additional services are created, and therefore that ML and AI will serve as drivers of further network traffic and solutions innovation. 6 Table of Contents We believe that increased adoption of these services and applications and their performance requirements will further increase network traffic and place additional service challenges on network infrastructures, requiring network operator investment in both core infrastructure networks and metro, access and aggregation networks. Transition to Programmable Automated Networks Many networks are still managed through legacy provisioning, inventory management, planning and fulfillment systems, and are predominantly static, or require a higher degree of manual intervention. To address growing service demands and better manage network costs, network operators are looking to adopt next-generation infrastructures that are programmable in real-time, can be accessed and configured via common open interfaces, and are better capable of leveraging data for automation. To bridge the gap between the operational realities of today and the more responsive network infrastructures of the future, we expect network operators to pursue strategies that include additional hardware programmability and software-centric strategies that emphasize one or more of the following: Closed Loop Automation. Network operators are seeking to reduce network operating costs and better leverage analytics, automation and control capabilities to automate end-to-end service creation and delivery. Closed loop automation is a continuous cycle of communications between the network hardware infrastructure and software elements to analyze network conditions, traffic demands, and resource availability and to determine the best placement of traffic for optimal service quality and resource utilization. Software-Defined Networking ( SDN ). SDN seeks to simplify networks to create more open environments that ease management, support automation and quickly deliver customized services to end users, by enabling individual network elements to be directly programmable by standards-based software control. This results in end-to-end visibility of network flows, enabling the optimization of traffic paths and the control of data flows through a network. Network Function Virtualization ( NFV ) . NFV is the separation of network services or capabilities from the physical network assets that traditionally provide these services or capabilities to end users. Network operators are increasingly looking for solutions like NFV, which enables network functions through software that runs on industry-standard servers and network and storage platforms, in order to reduce their dependence on single-purpose hardware and accelerate the time to market for new revenue-generating services. We believe that adoption of these strategies, and the related evolution of core network and metro and access network infrastructures, will require network operators and their network solutions vendors to increasingly look to utilize an ecosystem of physical and virtual network resources. We expect that these network architectural approaches, in turn, will drive increased openness and interoperability of multi-vendor, multi-domain network environments, requiring an increased degree of cooperation, collaboration and interoperability among networking solutions vendors. Industry Consolidation Our industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years among our competitors, customers and suppliers alike. To drive scale and market share gains, and to meet the intense investment capacity required to keep pace with technology innovation, there has been increased acquisition activity among competing vendors of networking solutions. Among our customers, there have been significant horizontal and vertical consolidation activities by communications service providers and cable operators, with several such operators acquiring media and content companies. Customer consolidation can increase their purchasing power and has in the past resulted in delays or reductions in network spending due to changes in strategy or leadership, the timing of regulatory approvals and debt burdens associated with such transactions. Further, significant consolidation among component suppliers, including in the semiconductor space, may reduce the number of independent suppliers and could create supply challenges affecting our pricing or supply volumes. Consolidation activity across our industry can create opportunities and challenges for our business. We expect this trend to continue, and it may have a significant impact on the entire industry, including our competitive landscape and the range of sales opportunities for vendors and their supply chains. Different Approaches to Design and Procure Network Infrastructure Solutions Network operators are pursuing a diverse range of approaches, or consumption models, in their design and procurement of network infrastructure solutions. In addition to purchasing fully integrated network solutions including hardware, software and services from the same vendor, new consumption models include the procurement or use of: a fully integrated hardware solution from one vendor with the separate use of a network operator s own software or another vendor s SDN-based control; 7 Table of Contents integrated photonic line systems with open interfaces from one vendor and the separate or disaggregated procurement of modem technology from a different vendor; and open source software in concert with or as an alternative to integrated, proprietary third-party software solutions. Network operators, including certain of our largest customers, are also pursuing the development and use of published reference designs and open source specifications for the procurement of off-the-shelf or commoditized hardware (often referred to as white box hardware). This commoditized hardware could be used with in-house developed data path and control software or third-party developed network operating software. Further, a number of network operators are pursuing network strategies that emphasize the deployment of smaller form factor, pluggable modem technology, typically in a switch or router platform, as an alternative to integrated optical platforms. The consumption models that ultimately emerge and their level of adoption will depend in significant part on the circumstances and strategies of certain network operators. While the adoption of these approaches has been limited to date, we expect that continued customer consideration of a variety of consumption models will require network operators and vendors alike to assess, and possibly broaden, their offerings and commercial models over time, thereby placing a premium on a vendor s ability to provide robust network solutions with the maximum amount of flexibility and choice. Strategy Our strategy is to leverage our technology leadership, diversification and global scale to drive the profitable growth of our business. Key elements of this strategy include: Extend Innovation Leadership and Grow our Networking Platforms and Services Businesses. We are focused on using our significant research and development investment capacity to push the pace of innovation in our markets and provide leading offerings that leverage our Adaptive Network vision to make our customers networks more adaptive through further advances in programmable hardware, analytics, and control and automation. In fiscal 2020, we brought to market our fifth-generation coherent modem technology capable of delivering 800 gigabits of capacity per second over a single wavelength. We are growing our Networking Platforms business by addressing fast-growing markets and applications. For example, we are advancing our Converged Packet Optical portfolio for applications in data center interconnection and submarine networks, and bringing to market and seeking adoption for our footprint-optimized WaveLogic 5 Nano (WL5n) 100G-400G coherent pluggable transceivers. We are also developing Packet Networking solutions with enhanced IP/Ethernet capabilities to expand our addressable market into additional next-generation metro and access applications, in