Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 42 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 45 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 45 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 110 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 110 Item 9B. Other Information 110 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 111 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 112 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 112 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 112 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 113 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 113 Signatures 114 Index to Exhibits 115 3 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains statements that discuss future events or expectations, projections of results of operations or financial condition, changes in the markets for our products and services, trends in our business, business prospects and strategies, and other forward-looking information. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words like may, will, would, can, should, could, expects, future, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, intends, potential, projects, targets, or continue or the negative of those words and other comparable words. These statements may relate to, among other things: our competitive landscape; market conditions and growth opportunities; factors impacting our industry and markets, including macroeconomic conditions and global supply chain constraints; factors impacting the businesses of network operators, their network architectures and their adoption of next-generation network infrastructures; our strategy, including our research and development, supply chain and go-to-market initiatives and our efforts to increase the reach of our business into new or growing product, customer and geographic markets; our order volumes, backlog and seasonality in our business; expectations for our financial results, revenue, gross margin, operating expense and key operating measures in future periods; the adequacy of our sources of liquidity to satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures and other liquidity requirements; cybersecurity events; business initiatives including information technology ( IT ) and environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) initiatives; the impact of changes in tax law and our effective tax rates; and market risks associated with financial instruments and foreign currency exchange rates. These statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, and actual events or results may differ materially from any future results, activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including due to factors such as those set forth below in Risk Factors Summary. For a discussion of additional important factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Risk Factors in this annual report. We operate in a very competitive and dynamic environment and new risks and uncertainties emerge, are identified or become apparent from time to time, and therefore may not be identified in this annual report. We cannot predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. You should be aware that the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are based on our current views and assumptions. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements made in this annual report to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. The forward-looking statements in this annual report are intended to be subject to protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report to Ciena, the Company, we, us and our refer to Ciena Corporation. Risk Factors Summary Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, as more fully described below in the section titled Risk Factors. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. In addition to this summary, you should consider the information set forth in the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this annual report before investing in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our revenue, gross margin, and operating results can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and, if we are not able to secure order growth, our revenue may not reach the levels we anticipate. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss of one or more of these customers, or a significant reduction in their spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We face intense competition that could impact our sales and results of operations. We expect our competitive landscape to continue to broaden as we seek to expand our addressable market and solutions portfolio. Our failure to invest in the right technologies or to get an adequate return on such research and development investment could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We have no guaranteed purchases and regularly must re-win business with existing customers. Network equipment sales often involve lengthy sales cycles and protracted contract negotiations that may require us to agree to commercial terms or conditions that negatively affect pricing, risk allocation, payment and the timing of revenue recognition. Accurately matching necessary inventory levels to customer demand within the current environment is challenging, and we may incur additional costs or be required to write off significant inventory that would adversely impact our results of operations. 4 Table of Contents If we are unable to adapt our business and solutions offerings to the evolving consumption models of our customers, our competitive position and results of operations could be adversely affected. As we introduce technologies that enable us to enter into new markets, we may experience difficulty monetizing these new solutions and be exposed to increased or new forms of competition. Our go-to-market activities and the distribution of our WaveLogic coherent modem technology within the market for high-performance transceivers/modems could expose us to increased competition and poses other risks that could adversely affect our existing systems business or results of operations. Supply chain challenges and constraints, including for semiconductor components, could adversely impact our growth, gross margins and financial results. Our exposure to the credit risks of our customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely affect our operating results. Problems affecting the performance, interoperability, reliability or security of our products could damage our business reputation and negatively affect our results of operations. Strategic acquisitions and investments could disrupt our operations and may expose us to increased costs and unexpected liabilities. Emerging issues related to the development and use of AI could give rise to legal or regulatory action, damage our reputation, or otherwise materially harm of our business. Risks Relating to the Macroeconomic Environment and our Global Presence Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and any reduction in the level of customer spending in response. The international scale of our sales and operations exposes us to additional risk and expense that could adversely affect our results of operations. Efforts to increase our sales and capture market share in targeted international markets may be unsuccessful. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Operations and Reliance on Third Parties We may experience delays in the development and production of our products that may negatively affect our competitive position and business. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with their businesses, financial condition, and the geographies in which they operate. Our reliance on third-party component suppliers, including sole and limited source suppliers, exposes our business to additional risk, including risk relating to our suppliers businesses and financial position and risks arising as a result of geopolitical events, and could limit our sales, increase our costs and harm our customer relationships. We rely on third-party resellers, distributors and service partners, and our failure to manage these relationships effectively could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and relationships with our customers. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks and additional obligations in connection with our resale of complementary products or technology of other companies. Growth of our business is dependent on the proper functioning and scalability of our internal business processes and information systems. Adoption of new systems, modifications or interruptions of services may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to manage our business effectively. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Litigation, Regulation and Government Policy Our intellectual property rights may be difficult and costly to enforce. We may incur significant costs in response to claims by others that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Our products incorporate software and other technology under license from third parties, and our business would be adversely affected if this technology were no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Data security breaches and cyber-attacks targeting our enterprise technology environment and assets could compromise our intellectual property, technology or other sensitive information and could cause significant damage to our business, reputation and operational capacity. We are a party to legal proceedings, investigations and other claims or disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures, or prevent us from taking certain actions, any of which could adversely affect our business. Changes in trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and other import measures, increased export control, sanctions and investment restrictions, and efforts to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, as well as other regulatory efforts impacting the import and sale of foreign equipment, may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. 5 Table of Contents Changes in government regulations affecting the communications and technology industries and the businesses of our customers could harm our prospects and operating results. Government regulations related to the environment, climate change and social initiatives could adversely affect our business and operating results. Investor and other stakeholder scrutiny related to our environmental, social and governance practices, and our disclosed performance and aspirations for these practices, may increase costs and expose us to numerous risks. Changes in tax law or regulation, effective tax rates and other adverse outcomes with taxing authorities could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock, Indebtedness and Investments Our stock price is volatile. Outstanding indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities and senior unsecured notes may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations and could limit our business. Significant volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets may limit our access to funding on favorable terms or at all. Item 1. Business Overview We are a network technology company, providing hardware, software, and services to a wide range of network operators and enabling enhanced network capacity, service delivery, and automation. Our solutions support network traffic across a wide range of applications, including cloud, video, data, artificial intelligence ( AI ), and voice. Our network solutions are used globally by communications service providers, cable and multiservice operators, cloud providers, submarine network operators, governments, and enterprises across multiple industry verticals. Our portfolio is designed to enable the Adaptive Network , which is our vision for a network end state that leverages a programmable and scalable network infrastructure, driven by software control and automation capabilities, that is informed by network analytics and intelligence. By using our network solutions to transform network infrastructures into dynamic, programmable environments driven by automation and analytics, we believe network operators can realize greater business agility, adapt dynamically to changing end-user service demands, rapidly introduce new revenue-generating services, and scale networks to meet increased traffic demands. Our solutions are also designed to enable network operators to gain valuable, real-time network insights, allowing them to optimize network performance and maximize the return on their network infrastructure investment. Our solutions include Networking Platforms, including our Optical Networking portfolio and our Routing and Switching portfolio, which can be applied from the network core to end-user access points, and which allow network operators to scale capacity, increase transmission speeds, allocate traffic efficiently, and adapt dynamically to changing end-user service demands. Our Optical Networking portfolio includes products that support long haul and regional networks, submarine and data center interconnect networks, and metro and edge networks. Our Routing and Switching portfolio includes products and solutions that enable efficient Internet Protocol ( IP ) transport in next-generation metro core, aggregation, and access networks, including converged IP, optical, and fiber-based broadband access applications. To complement our Networking Platforms, we offer Platform Software, which includes our Navigator Network Control Software ( Navigator NCS ) (formerly known as Manage, Control and Plan ( MCP )) and advanced applications that deliver multi-layer domain control and operations for network operators. Through our Blue Planet Automation Software, we also enable complete service lifecycle management automation with productized operational support systems ( OSS ), including inventory, orchestration, and assurance solutions that help our customers to achieve closed loop automation across multi-vendor and multi-domain environments. In addition to our systems and software, we also offer a broad range of services that help our customers build, operate, and improve their networks and associated operational environments. These include network transformation, consulting, implementation, systems integration, maintenance, network operations center (NOC) management, learning, and optimization services. Industry Background Network Traffic Growth and Increased Capacity Requirements 6 Table of Contents The markets into which we sell are dynamic and characterized by a high rate of change. Optical networks which carry video, data, and voice traffic by encoding digital information on multiple wavelengths of light traveling across fiber optic cables continue to experience strong demand for increased bandwidth due to traffic growth. This network traffic growth is being driven by a diverse set of communications services that often require on-demand service levels by enterprise and consumer end users, as well as cloud-based and AI services and applications: Cloud-Based Services. Enterprises and consumers continue to replace locally-housed computing and storage by adopting a broad array of innovative cloud-based models including Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service ( SaaS ) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and an expanding range of cloud-based services that host key applications, store data, enable the viewing and downloading of content, and utilize on-demand computing resources. In addition, content is increasingly moving to the network edge, creating capacity and traffic demands closer to the user. Generative AI ( Gen-AI ). In recent periods, Gen-AI platforms have experienced rapid and unprecedented user adoption with a notable array of new offerings entering the market across a diverse set of use cases. Gen-AI presents significant opportunities for businesses and other users to automate tasks, augment creativity, and improve operational efficiency. Given the Gen-AI adoption trajectory to date, and its potential to be a significant contributor to innovation and productivity, Gen-AI has been and will likely continue in future periods to be a significant stimulant or accelerator of network demand, both inside and outside of the data center. Over-the-Top ( OTT ) Services and Video Streaming . OTT content refers to video, multimedia and other applications provided directly from the content source to the viewer or end user across a third-party network. Traffic from streaming and OTT services, including high definition and ultra-high definition video, has expanded with the increased availability of, and end-user demand for, video content accessible through a variety of devices and media. Mobile Traffic and Fifth-Generation Wireless Broadband ( 5G ). Traffic from mobile web applications, including video, internet, and data services, has expanded with the continued proliferation of smartphones and other wireless devices. Because much of wireless traffic ultimately travels across a wireline network to reach its destination, growth in mobile communications continues to place higher demands upon wireline networks, including the backhaul and fronthaul portions of networks emanating from cell sites. 5G technology is further enabling meaningful increases in bandwidth and performance and enabling emerging applications and services that 4G/LTE networks cannot support. To fully capitalize on these opportunities, network operators will need to consider the demands that 5G technology will place on their wireline infrastructures. Machine Learning ( ML ) and AI. By enhancing network intelligence and automation, ML and AI can enable improvements in network planning, operations, user experience and trouble resolution. Adoption of these technologies is expected to continue to increase as the IoT expands and additional services are created, and ML and AI are expected to continue to serve as drivers of further network traffic and solutions innovation, including driving bandwidth demands in various industries, including manufacturing, research and development, robotics, security, healthcare, and transportation. Fiber-Based Access Networks - Residential and Enterprise . In recent years there has been a shift in bandwidth demands, traffic patterns, and computing functions to the edge of networks, including due to increases in remote and hybrid working and distance learning. With a higher percentage of data flows concentrating closer to the network edge, more capacity and higher bandwidth to home and enterprise locations are required. Network densification initiatives by cable and multiservice operators seek to push more digital fiber closer to the end user in an effort to increase potential bandwidth, computing capability and data speeds to homes and enterprises, while decreasing power, space, and operating costs. Wireline service providers are responding to similar service and end customer demands by extending fiber to the home and deeper into access networks. In addition, a growing number of governments around the world are investing in rolling out access networks to underserved communities as part of an effort to bridge the digital divide. Emerging technologies, services, and applications are further impacting, or are expected to impact, network infrastructures, particularly at the edge of networks, where increased computing power and automation are required to meet the quality of experience required by end users. Examples of these include: Internet of Things ( IoT ) . As networked connections between devices and servers grow, machine-to-machine-related traffic ( M2M ) is expected to represent an increasing portion of traffic. These connections allow sharing of data that can be monitored and analyzed, including in smart grid applications, health care and safety monitoring, resource and 7 Table of Contents inventory management, home entertainment, consumer appliances, connected transportation and other M2M data applications. Immersive Technologies and Ultra-High Definition Video ( UHD ). Immersive technologies like virtual reality (VR), augmented reality (AR), interactive experiences, gaming, and 360 video, as well as UHD (4K and 8K) video, are placing or likely to place further capacity demands on networks as adoption of these technologies grows. Consumer electronics and other technology companies are rapidly advancing these applications, which require high bandwidth and low latency, and are making the associated devices more widely available and affordable to consumers. Edge Computing . To provide end users with the required experience for a growing set of immersive cloud services, network operators have increased, and are expected to continue to increase, the number and capabilities of edge computing locations to allow these latency-sensitive workloads to be processed closer to users. These changes at the edge of networks may affect network topologies, demands, and traffic patterns. We believe that increased adoption of these technologies, services, and applications and their performance requirements will further increase network traffic and place additional service challenges on network infrastructures. We also believe that, in turn, network operators will be required to invest in their metro, access, and aggregation networks, as well as their core networks. Demand for Network Transformation In the face of intense competition and disruptive business models, communications service providers globally are engaging in large network transformation efforts that aim to simplify and reduce operational costs and create agile, software-driven platforms from which to develop new revenue-generating services. As part of these efforts, providers are reimagining legacy processes and software in their business support systems ( BSS ) and operations support systems ( OSS ) and redefining how they want these software platforms to interact with network infrastructure. The goal of these initiatives is to enhance customer loyalty, create a more digital experience for their end users, reduce operational complexity and costs, and introduce greater service agility. As a result, we expect that network operators will continue to pursue strategies that better leverage AI, automation, consulting services, analytics, and software control capabilities in an effort to achieve this transformation. We expect that service providers will also pursue closed loop automation between their software operations platforms and network infrastructure. Closed loop automation is a continuous cycle of communications between the programmable network infrastructure and software control elements to analyze network conditions, traffic demands, and resource availability to determine the best placement of traffic or network functions to deliver optimal service quality and resource utilization. We believe that adoption of these network transformation strategies around OSS and BSS, and the related evolution of core, metro, aggregation and access network infrastructures, will require network operators and their network solutions vendors increasingly to look to utilize an ecosystem of cloud-native software, consulting and delivery services, and software-optimized and controlled physical and virtual network resources. We expect that these network architectural approaches, in turn, will require an increased degree of cooperation, collaboration and interoperability among networking solutions vendors. Different Approaches to Design and Procure Network Infrastructure Solutions Network operators are pursuing a diverse range of approaches, or consumption models, in their design and procurement of network infrastructure solutions. In addition to purchasing fully integrated network solutions including hardware, software and services from the same vendor, new consumption models include the procurement or use of: a fully integrated infrastructure solution from one vendor with the separate use of a network operator s own software or that of another vendor; integrated photonic line systems with open interfaces from one vendor and the separate or disaggregated procurement of modem technology from a different vendor; open source software in concert with or as an alternative to integrated, proprietary third-party software solutions; open IP network operating systems running on off-the-shelf third-party equipment; and system integration services or customer self-integration to reconstitute the disaggregated components. Driven by the need to add capacity quickly and by restrictions in some jurisdictions on fiber ownership, some cloud providers are using managed optical fiber networks ( MOFN ) through which they lease lit fiber pairs from advanced optical networks owned by communications service providers in order to expand their reach and better serve their end users. In addition, some network operators are pursuing network strategies that emphasize the deployment of smaller form factor, 8 Table of Contents pluggable modem technology, that can be housed in a switch or router platform or used in place of a modem in a traditional optical system. The consumption models that ultimately emerge and their level of adoption will depend in significant part on the circumstances and strategies of certain network operators. While the adoption of these approaches has been limited to date, we expect that continued customer consideration of a variety of consumption models will require network operators and vendors alike to assess, and possibly broaden, their offerings and commercial models over time. We expect this dynamic will place a premium on a vendor s ability to provide a range of network solutions with the maximum amount of flexibility and choice. Supply Chain and Demand Environment Dynamics In the face of demand across a range of industries, global supply for certain raw materials and components, including, in particular, semiconductor, integrated circuits, and other electronic components, experienced substantial constraint and disruption in recent prior periods. Though supply conditions have stabilized from their highest levels of disruption, they have yet to return to conditions experienced in the period prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. In response, governments and some of our network operator customers worldwide have intensified efforts to enhance supply chain resilience, emphasizing the need for robust risk management strategies. During the most difficult periods of supply constraint, companies across many industries, including those of our end customers, deployed risk mitigation strategies to ensure continued operations. The strategies employed by some of our customers included increases in advance orders of networking equipment. With the stabilizing supply chain environment experienced in recent periods, customers strategies have shifted, resulting in their need to digest their excess inventory of networking equipment purchased during that period, which led to a period of lower demand for equipment. The United States and various foreign governments have established certain trade and tariff requirements, and from time to time the U.S. government has indicated a willingness to revise, renegotiate, or terminate various existing multilateral trade agreements and to impose new taxes and restrictions on certain goods imported into the United States. Current dynamics between the United States and China are playing a pivot