Item 1. Business 5 Cincinnati Financial Corporation Introduction 5 Our Business and Our Strategy 6 Our Segments 14 Other 25 Regulation 26 Item 1A. Risk Factors 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 43 Item 1C. Cybersecurity Item 2. Properties 44 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 44 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 Part II 45 Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Introduction 47 Executive Summary 48 Critical Accounting Estimates 53 Recent Accounting Pronouncements 60 Financial Results 61 Liquidity and Capital Resources 94 Safe Harbor Statement 110 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 113 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 119 Responsibility for Financial Statements 119 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 120 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34 ) 121 Consolidated Balance Sheets 123 Consolidated Statements of Income 124 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 125 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 126 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 127 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 128 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 3 Table of Contents Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 182 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 182 Item 9B. Other Information 182 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 182 Part III 183 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 183 Item 11. Executive Compensation 185 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 185 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 186 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 186 Part IV 187 Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 187 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 187 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 4 Table of Contents Part I I TEM 1. Business Cincinnati Financial Corporation Introduction We are an Ohio corporation formed in 1968. Our lead subsidiary, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, was founded in 1950. Our main business is property casualty insurance marketed through independent insurance agencies in 46 states. Our headquarters is in Fairfield, Ohio. Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns 100% of four subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Insurance Company (Cincinnati Insurance), Cincinnati Global Underwriting Ltd. SM (Cincinnati Global), CSU Producer Resources Inc. and CFC Investment Company. In addition, the parent company has an investment portfolio, owns the headquarters property and is responsible for corporate borrowings and shareholder dividends. The Cincinnati Insurance Company owns 100% of four additional insurance subsidiaries. Our standard market property casualty insurance group includes two of those subsidiaries The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group writes a broad range of business, homeowner and auto policies. The Cincinnati Insurance Company also conducts the business of our reinsurance assumed operations, known as Cincinnati Re . Other subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance Company include: The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company (Cincinnati Life), which provides life insurance policies and fixed annuities; and The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company (Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters), which offers excess and surplus lines insurance products. In this report and elsewhere we often refer to any or all of these five companies as The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. Cincinnati Global owns 100% of Cincinnati Global Underwriting Agency Ltd. SM , a London-based, global specialty underwriter for Lloyd's Syndicate 318, and Cincinnati Global Dedicated No. 2 Ltd. SM , a Lloyd s corporate member and vehicle through which capital is provided by Cincinnati Financial Corporation and third-party names at Lloyd s. The two noninsurance subsidiaries of Cincinnati Financial Corporation are CSU Producer Resources, which offers insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their clients can access our excess and surplus lines insurance products; and CFC Investment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services to our agencies, their clients and other customers. Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our website, cinfin.com/investors , as soon as possible after they have been filed with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may also be viewed at sec.gov . These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and exhibits and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In this report we reference various websites. These websites, including our own, are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information about our performance versus the overall U.S. insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and insurer financial strength and credit rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis for insurance company regulation in the United States of America. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 5 Table of Contents Our Business and Our Strategy Introduction The Cincinnati Insurance Company was founded more than 70 years ago by four independent insurance agents. They established the mission that continues to guide all of the companies in the Cincinnati Financial Corporation family to grow profitably and enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve by: providing insurance market stability through financial strength producing competitive, up-to-date products and services developing associates committed to superior service At year-end 2023, a select group of independent agencies in 46 states actively marketed our property casualty insurance within their communities. Standard market commercial lines and excess and surplus lines policies were marketed in 43 of those states. Personal lines policies were marketed in 45 of those states. Within our select group of agencies, we also seek to become the life insurance carrier of choice and to help agents and their clients our policyholders by offering leasing and financing services. Three competitive advantages distinguish our company, positioning us to build shareholder value and to be successful overall: Commitment to our professional independent insurance agencies and to their continued success Financial strength to fulfill our promises and be a consistent market for our agents business, supporting stability and confidence Operating structure that supports local decision making, showcasing our claims excellence and allowing us to balance growth with underwriting discipline Management and our board of directors has developed an agency-focused strategy that we believe positions our company for long-term success and value creation, while managing difficult economic, market or pricing cycles. We broadly group our key strategic initiatives into two areas of focus managing insurance profitability and driving premium growth, as summarized below. Our strategic priorities include meeting the wants and needs of our agent customers, attracting and developing talented associates, achieving best-in-class field service and continually enhancing operational efficiency and effectiveness. To help guide our strategic efforts, we have placed an emphasis on innovation to accelerate operational improvement and to also favorably position us for the future. We find innovative ideas in many places, including: internally through management and other associates, with our traditional business partners and in the start-up business community. Manage insurance profitability Implementation of these initiatives is intended to enhance underwriting expertise and knowledge, thereby increasing our ability to manage our business while also gaining efficiency. We believe profit margins can be improved with additional information and expanded pricing capabilities we can access with the use of technology and analytics. This includes segmentation efforts that emphasize identification and retention of insurance policies we believe have relatively stronger pricing, while seeking more aggressive renewal terms and conditions on policies we believe have relatively weaker pricing. Pricing property casualty insurance policies includes estimates for expected losses, loss expenses to settle claims and expenses from underwriting policies while also considering the time value of money related to expected cash flows and a reasonable profit margin. In addition to enhancing company efficiency and more quickly deploying product or service enhancements, improving internal processes also supports the ability of the independent agencies that represent us to grow profitably by allowing them to serve clients faster and to more efficiently manage agency expenses as we make it easier for them to do business with us. Drive premium growth Implementation of these initiatives is intended to further penetrate each market we serve through our appointed independent agencies. Strategies aimed at specific market opportunities, along with service enhancements, can help our agents grow and increase our share of their business. This includes increasing opportunities for agencies to cross-serve their clients by providing updated products and services that aim to meet their life insurance needs. We continue to increase our capabilities to successfully underwrite both larger commercial policies, which we refer to as key accounts, and small business accounts that require greater efficiency. Premium growth initiatives also include expansion of Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global. Diversified growth also may reduce variability of losses from weather-related catastrophes. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 6 Table of Contents Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace The U.S. property casualty insurance industry is a highly competitive marketplace with more than 2,000 stock and mutual companies (carriers) operating independently or in groups. For the most part, we compete with standard market insurance companies that market through independent insurance agents. Agencies marketing our commercial lines or personal lines products typically represent several standard market insurance carriers. We also compete with carriers that market through captive agents representing a single carrier or that market directly to consumers, sometimes offering a less broad range of insurance products. Some of our agencies describe their roles as brokers instead of agents. Distribution through independent insurance agents or brokers represents approximately 60% of overall U.S. property casualty insurance premiums and approximately 80% of commercial property casualty insurance premiums, according to studies by the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America. We are fully committed to the independent agency channel for marketing our insurance policies. For marketing standard lines insurance products, we choose independent agencies that share our philosophies. They generally do business person to person; offer broad, value-added services; and manage their agencies professionally, targeting long-term success. We develop our relationships with agencies, providing important knowledge of local market trends, opportunities and challenges. Our associates work to support agencies with tools and resources that help communicate the value of choosing an independent insurance agent and our insurance policies to their clients and prospective clients. We help our agencies meet the broader needs of their clients and increase and diversify their revenues and profitability by offering insurance solutions beyond our standard market property casualty insurance products. We market life insurance products through the agencies that offer our property casualty products and through other independent life agencies that represent Cincinnati Life without also representing our other subsidiaries. We operate our own excess and surplus lines insurance brokerage firm and insurance carrier so that we can offer our excess and surplus lines products exclusively to the independent agencies who market our other property casualty insurance products. Insurers operating in the excess and surplus lines marketplace generally market business through nonaffiliated excess and surplus lines brokers. The specialized nature of our other insurance operations helps avoid conflicts with the independent agency distribution channel. Cincinnati Re typically markets through broker organizations or similar intermediaries that specialize in reinsurance. Cincinnati Global markets its business through brokers and coverholders. Coverholders are entities that can be authorized by a Lloyd's syndicate to underwrite policies, manage risks, collect premiums or arrange claims settlements up to agreed upon limits. The table below includes data about property casualty agency relationships that market our standard market insurance products. It does not include Lloyd's brokers or coverholders that source business for Cincinnati Global. Agency Data Years ended December 31, 2023 2022 Property casualty agency relationships, January 1 1,984 1,921 New appointments that market all or most of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies' products 216 145 New appointments that market only personal lines insurance products for Cincinnati Insurance 84 64 Changes due to consolidation and other (204) (146) Property casualty agency relationships, December 31 2,080 1,984 Property casualty reporting locations 3,116 2,861 New relationship appointments 206 146 Active states 46 46 The annual total of agency new appointments may be partially offset by other changes in agency structures, such as consolidation through mergers or acquisitions. An increasing number of agencies have multiple, separately identifiable locations, reflecting their growth as well as consolidation of ownership within the independent Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 7 Table of Contents agency marketplace. The number of reporting agency locations indicates our agents regional scope and the extent of our presence within our active states. The difference between new appointments in total and the number of new relationships represents either: new branch offices opened by existing Cincinnati agencies; or agencies that merged with another Cincinnati agency and we still believed would produce a meaningful amount of new business premiums. On average, we have a 4.6% share of the standard lines property casualty insurance purchased through our reporting agency locations, according to 2022 data from agency surveys. Our share is 9.2% in reporting agency locations that have represented us for more than 10 years; 3.1% in agencies that have represented us for six to 10 years; 1.3% in agencies that have represented us for two to five years; and 0.4% in agencies that have represented us for one year or less. Our largest single agency relationship accounted for approximately 0.6% of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2023. No aggregate locations under a single ownership structure accounted for more than 6% of our earned premiums in 2023. Financial Strength We believe that our financial strength and strong capital and surplus position, reflected in our insurer financial strength ratings, are clear, competitive advantages in the segments of the insurance marketplace that we serve. This strength supports the consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates and shareholders have always expected and received, helping us withstand significant challenges. Effective capital management is an important part of creating long-term shareholder value, serving as a foundation to support other strategic areas focused on profitable growth of our insurance business. Our capital management philosophy is intended to preserve and build our capital while maintaining appropriate liquidity. While the potential exists for short-term financial performance variability due to our exposures to possible natural or man-made catastrophes or to significant capital market losses, the rating agencies consistently assert that we have built appropriate financial strength and flexibility to manage that variability. We remain committed to strategies that emphasize being a consistent, stable market for our agents business rather than seeking short-term benefits that might accrue by quick, opportunistic reaction to changes in market conditions. We use various principles and practices such as diversification and enterprise risk management to maintain strong capital. For example, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio by reviewing and applying specific parameters and tolerances. Our $13.791 billion fixed-maturity portfolio is diversified and exceeds total insurance reserves. The portfolio had an average rating of A2/A, and its fair value exceeded total insurance reserve liabilities by approximately 14% at December 31, 2023. No corporate bond exposure accounted for more than 0.8% of our fixed-maturity portfolio, and no municipal exposure accounted for more than 0.2%. The strength of our fixed-maturity portfolio provides an opportunity to invest for potential capital appreciation by purchasing equity securities. Our $10.989 billion equity portfolio minimizes concentrations in single stocks or industries. At December 31, 2023, no single security accounted for more than 8.0% of our portfolio of publicly traded common stocks, and no single sector accounted for more than 34%. Strong liquidity increases our flexibility through all periods to maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations. At December 31, 2023, we held $4.907 billion of our cash and invested assets at the parent-company level, of which $4.542 billion, or 92.6%, was invested in common stocks, and $138 million, or 2.8%, was cash and cash equivalents. We minimize reliance on debt as a source of capital, with a debt-to-total-capital ratio of 6.3% at year-end 2023. Long-term debt at year-end 2023 totaled $790 million, compared with $789 million at year-end 2022, and our short-term debt was $25 million, down from $50 million at the end of the prior year. The long-term debt consists of three nonconvertible, noncallable debentures, two due in 2028 and one in 2034. Ratings for our long-term debt are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Long-Term Debt of Management s Discussion and Analysis. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 8 Table of Contents At year-end 2023 and 2022, risk-based capital (RBC) for our standard market property casualty insurance, excess and surplus lines insurance and life insurance subsidiaries was strong, far exceeding regulatory requirements. We ended 2023 with a 1.1-to-1 ratio of property casualty premiums to surplus, a key measure of property casualty insurance company capacity and security. A lower ratio indicates more security for policyholders and greater capacity for growth by an insurer. We believe our ratio provides ample flexibility to diversify risk by expanding our operations into new geographies and product areas. The estimated industry average ratio was 0.9-to-1 at year-end 2023, based on industry data reported through the first nine months of 2023. On a statutory consolidated property casualty insurance basis, our ratio of investments in common stock, at fair value, to statutory capital and surplus was 83.2% at year-end 2023 compared with 83.7% at year-end 2022. We ended 2023 with an 11.8% ratio of life statutory adjusted risk-based surplus to liabilities, a key measure of life insurance company capital strength. A higher ratio indicates an insurer s stronger security for policyholders and capacity to support business growth. Our life insurance subsidiary s RBC at year-end 2023 was 7.5 times the authorized control level RBC. (Dollars in millions) Statutory Information At December 31, 2023 2022 Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiary Statutory capital and surplus $ 7,294 $ 6,512 Risk-based capital 7,335 6,551 Authorized control level risk-based capital 1,354 1,186 Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio 5.4 5.5 Written premium to surplus ratio 1.1 1.1 Cincinnati Financial Corporation s senior debt is rated by four independent rating firms. In addition, the rating firms award our property casualty and life operations insurer financial strength ratings based on their quantitative and qualitative analyses. These ratings assess an insurer s ability to meet financial obligations to policyholders and do not necessarily address all of the matters that may be important to shareholders. Ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. At February 23, 2024, our insurance subsidiaries continued to be highly rated. Insurer Financial Strength Ratings Rating agency Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiary Life insurance subsidiary Excess and surplus lines insurance subsidiary Outlook Rating Tier Rating Tier Rating Tier A.M. Best Company ambest.com A+ Superior 2 of 16 A+ Superior 2 of 16 A+ Superior 2 of 16 Stable Fitch Ratings fitchratings.com A+ Strong 5 of 21 A+ Strong 5 of 21 - - - Stable Moody's Investors Service moodys.com A1 Good 5 of 21 - - - - - - Stable S P Global Ratings spratings.com A+ Strong 5 of 21 A+ Strong 5 of 21 - - - Stable On February 9, 2024, A.M. Best affirmed its ratings, continuing its stable outlook. On October 25, 2023, Fitch affirmed its ratings, continuing its stable outlook. On July 14, 2023, Moody's affirmed its ratings, continuing its stable outlook. On June 29, 2023, S P affirmed its ratings, continuing its stable outlook. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 9 Table of Contents Operating Structure We offer our broad array of insurance products through the independent agency distribution channel. We recognize that locally based independent agencies have relationships in their communities and local marketplace intelligence that can lead to profitable business and policyholder satisfaction and loyalty. Several of our strategic initiatives are intended not only to help us compete but also to enhance support of agencies that represent us, thereby contributing to agency success. We seek to be a consistent and predictable property casualty carrier that agencies can rely on to serve their clients. In our 10 highest volume states for consolidated property casualty premiums, 1,487 reporting agency locations wrote 50.1% of our 2023 consolidated property casualty earned premium volume compared with 1,386 locations and 50.1% in 2022. We continue efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks. Our 10 largest states based on property casualty premium volume, excluding Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, are shown in the table below. (Dollars in millions) Earned premiums % of total earned Agency locations Average premium per location Year ended December 31, 2023 Ohio $ 1,027 13.4 % 261 $ 3.9 Illinois 408 5.3 190 2.1 New York 386 5.0 200 1.9 North Carolina 341 4.5 122 2.8 Pennsylvania 321 4.2 168 1.9 Georgia 320 4.2 123 2.6 Indiana 299 3.9 140 2.1 Missouri 255 3.3 78 3.3 Tennessee 245 3.2 82 3.0 Texas 234 3.1 123 1.9 Field Focus Emphasizing Service We rely on our force of 1,974 field associates to provide service and be accountable to our agencies for decisions we make at the local level. These associates live in the communities our agents serve, so they are readily available when agencies or policyholders need them. While their work is often conducted at the premises of the agency or policyholder, they also work from offices in their homes. Headquarters associates support agencies and field associates with underwriting, accounting, technology assistance, training and other services. Company executives and headquarters associates typically travel to visit agencies, strengthening the personal relationships we have with these organizations. Agents have opportunities for direct, personal conversations with our senior management team, and headquarters associates have opportunities to refresh their knowledge of marketplace conditions and field activities. The field team is coordinated by field marketing representatives responsible for underwriting new commercial lines business. They are joined by field representatives specializing in claims, loss control, commercial lines key accounts, personal lines, excess and surplus lines, machinery and equipment, management liability and surety, premium audit and life insurance. The field team provides a variety of services, such as recommending specific actions to improve the safety of the policyholder s operations. We seek to develop long-term relationships by understanding the unique needs of each agency's clients, who are also our policyholders. Technology enhances our service to agencies, allowing them to more easily access our systems and process business transactions. Policyholders can conveniently access pertinent policy information online, helping to reduce costs for agencies and the company. Technology and ongoing training also help our associates collaborate and process business efficiently, providing more time for personal service to agencies and their clients. We also provide and continue to develop enhanced, tailored services offered at the time a claim is reported for an insured loss event. Those services include assisting with car rental or towing, arranging temporary housing and coordinating emergency repairs to homes so additional damage is minimized. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 10 Table of Contents Our claims philosophy reflects our belief that we prosper as a company by responding to claims person to person, paying covered claims promptly, preventing false claims from unfairly adding to overall premiums and building financial strength to meet future obligations. Our 889 locally based field claims associates, often referred to as field claims representatives, work from their homes and are assigned to specific agencies. They respond personally to policyholders and claimants and are equipped to handle a claim from nearly anywhere. We believe we have a competitive advantage because of the person-to-person approach and the resulting high level of service that our field claims representatives and Express Claims Center associates deliver. For field claims representatives handling excess and surplus lines claims, guidance is provided by headquarters-based excess and surplus lines claims managers. Claims may be reported directly to us by calling our claims call center, online via our company website or through the MyCincinnati app using a mobile device. Catastrophe response teams are comprised of our experienced field claims representatives who have the authority they need to do their jobs. In times of widespread loss, our field claims representatives confidently and quickly resolve claims, with the ability to provide claims payments on the same day they inspect the loss. Technology helps to enable fast initial contact with policyholders and easy sharing of information and data among storm teams, headquarters associates and local field claims representatives. When hurricanes or other weather events are predicted, we can identify through mapping technologies the expected number of our policyholders that may be impacted by the event and choose to have catastrophe response team members travel to strategic locations near the expected impact area. They are then in position to quickly get to the affected area and begin providing service to policyholders. Our 45 associates working in the Special Investigations Unit (SIU) include former law enforcement and claims professionals whose qualifications make them well suited to gathering facts to uncover potential fraud. While we believe our job is to pay what is due under each policy contract, we also want to prevent false claims from unfairly increasing overall premiums. Our SIU also operates a computer forensics lab that supports field investigation efforts in various ways including assistance with video evidence and data recovery. We seek to attract and retain high-quality independent insurance agencies with knowledgeable, professional staff. In turn, we make an exceptionally strong commitment to assist them in keeping their knowledge up to date and educating new people they bring on board as they grow. This includes offering classes, usually at no cost to agencies, except travel-related expenses they may incur, and other training support. We also offer noninsurance financial services. We believe that providing these services enhances agency relationships with the company and their clients, increasing loyalty while diversifying the agency s revenues. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2023 10-K - Page 11 Table of Contents Human Capital At the end of 2023, we employed 5,426 as