Item 1. Business 4 Cincinnati Financial Corporation Introduction 4 Our Business and Our Strategy 5 Our Segments 17 Other 30 Regulation 31 Item 1A. Risk Factors 35 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 Part II 47 Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Introduction 50 Executive Summary 51 Critical Accounting Estimates 56 Recent Accounting Pronouncements 63 Financial Results 64 Liquidity and Capital Resources 98 Safe Harbor Statement 114 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 117 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 123 Responsibility for Financial Statements 123 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 124 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 125 Consolidated Balance Sheets 128 Consolidated Statements of Income 129 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 130 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 131 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 132 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 133 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 183 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 183 Item 9B. Other Information 183 Part III 184 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 184 Item 11. Executive Compensation 186 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 186 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 187 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 187 Part IV 188 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 188 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 3 Part I I TEM 1. Business Cincinnati Financial Corporation Introduction We are an Ohio corporation formed in 1968. Our lead subsidiary, The Cincinnati Insurance Company, was founded in 1950. Our main business is property casualty insurance marketed through independent insurance agencies in 45 states. Our headquarters is in Fairfield, Ohio. At year-end 2019, we employed 5,148 associates, including 3,330 headquarters associates who provide support to 1,818 field associates. Cincinnati Financial Corporation owns 100% of four subsidiaries: The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Global Underwriting Ltd. SM (Cincinnati Global), CSU Producer Resources Inc. and CFC Investment Company. In addition, the parent company has an investment portfolio, owns the headquarters property and is responsible for corporate borrowings and shareholder dividends. The Cincinnati Insurance Company owns 100% of four additional insurance subsidiaries. Our standard market property casualty insurance group includes two of those subsidiaries The Cincinnati Casualty Company and The Cincinnati Indemnity Company. This group writes a broad range of business, homeowner and auto policies. The Cincinnati Insurance Company also conducts the business of our reinsurance assumed operations, known as Cincinnati Re SM . Other subsidiaries of The Cincinnati Insurance Company include: The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company (Cincinnati Life), which provides life insurance policies and fixed annuities; and The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company (Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters), which offers excess and surplus lines insurance products. In this report and elsewhere we often refer to any or all of these five companies as The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. Cincinnati Global owns 100% of Cincinnati Global Underwriting Agency Ltd. SM , a London-based, global specialty underwriter for Lloyd's Syndicate 318, and Cincinnati Global Dedicated No. 2 Ltd. SM , a Lloyd s corporate member and vehicle through which capital is provided by Cincinnati Financial Corporation and third-party names at Lloyd s. The two noninsurance subsidiaries of Cincinnati Financial Corporation are CSU Producer Resources, which offers insurance brokerage services to our independent agencies so their clients can access our excess and surplus lines insurance products; and CFC Investment Company, which offers commercial leasing and financing services to our agencies, their clients and other customers. Our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are available on our website, cinfin.com/investors , as soon as possible after they have been filed with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may also be viewed at sec.gov . These filings include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In this report we reference various websites. These websites, including our own, are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information about our performance versus the overall U.S. insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and insurer financial strength and credit rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis for insurance company regulation in the United States of America. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 4 Our Business and Our Strategy Introduction The Cincinnati Insurance Company was founded nearly 70 years ago by four independent insurance agents. They established the mission that continues to guide all of the companies in the Cincinnati Financial Corporation family to grow profitably and enhance the ability of local independent insurance agents to deliver quality financial protection to the people and businesses they serve by: providing insurance market stability through financial strength producing competitive, up-to-date products and services developing associates committed to superior service At year-end 2019, a select group of independent agencies in 45 states actively marketed our property casualty insurance within their communities. Standard market commercial lines and excess and surplus lines policies were marketed in 41 of those states. Personal lines policies were marketed in 42 of those states. Within our select group of agencies, we also seek to become the life insurance carrier of choice and to help agents and their clients our policyholders by offering leasing and financing services. Three competitive advantages distinguish our company, positioning us to build shareholder value and to be successful overall: Commitment to our professional independent insurance agencies and to their continued success Financial strength to fulfill our promises and be a consistent market for our agents business, supporting stability and confidence Operating structure that supports local decision making, showcasing our claims excellence and allowing us to balance growth with underwriting discipline The primary sources of our company s net income are summarized below. We discuss the contribution to net income from each source in Item 7, Corporate Financial Highlights of Management s Discussion and Analysis. Underwriting profit (loss) Includes revenues from earned premiums for insurance and reinsurance policies or contracts, reduced by losses and loss expenses from associated insurance coverages. Those revenues are further reduced by underwriting expenses associated with marketing policies or related to administration of our insurance operation. The net result represents an underwriting profit when revenues exceed losses and expenses. Investment income Is generated primarily from investing the premiums collected for insurance policies sold, until funds are needed to pay losses for insurance claims or other expenses. Interest income from bond investments or dividend income from stock investments are the main categories of our investment income, with additional contribution from compounding effects over time. Investment gains and losses Occur from appreciation or depreciation of invested assets over time. Gains or losses are generally recognized from changes in market values of equity securities without a sale or when invested assets are sold or become impaired. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 5 Independent Insurance Agency Marketplace The U.S. property casualty insurance industry is a highly competitive marketplace with more than 2,000 stock and mutual companies operating independently or in groups. No single company or group dominates across all product lines and states. Standard market insurance companies (carriers) can market a broad array of products nationally or: choose to sell a limited product line or only one type of insurance (monoline carrier) target a certain segment of the market (for example, personal insurance) focus on one or more states or regions (regional carrier) Standard market property casualty insurers generally offer insurance products through one or more distribution channels: independent agents, who represent multiple carriers captive agents, who represent one carrier exclusively direct marketing to consumers For the most part, we compete with standard market insurance companies that market through independent insurance agents. Agencies marketing our commercial lines products typically represent six to 12 standard market insurance carriers for commercial lines products, including both national and regional carriers, most of which are mutual companies. Our agencies typically represent four to six standard personal lines carriers. We also compete with carriers that market personal lines products through captive agents and direct writers. Some of our agencies describe their roles as brokers instead of agents. Distribution through independent insurance agents or brokers represents nearly 60% of overall U.S. property casualty insurance premiums and approximately 80% of commercial property casualty insurance premiums, according to studies by the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America. We are fully committed to the independent agency channel for marketing our insurance policies, while Cincinnati Re typically markets through broker organizations or similar intermediaries that specialize in reinsurance. The independent agencies that we choose to market our standard lines insurance products share our philosophies. They do business person to person; offer broad, value-added services; maintain sound balance sheets; and manage their agencies professionally, targeting long-term success. We develop our relationships with agencies that are active in their communities, providing important knowledge of local market trends, opportunities and challenges. We work to support agencies with tools and resources that help communicate the value of choosing an independent insurance agent and our insurance policies to their clients and prospective clients. We plan to build on our recent marketing efforts and continue with our national advertising campaign in 2020. Our intent is to increase the visibility of our company, supporting our agents' efforts as they recommend policies and services offered through The Cincinnati Insurance Companies. We also continue to build our social media presence, focusing on providing content that agents can share on their own sites. We help our agencies meet the broader needs of their clients and increase and diversify their revenues and profitability by offering insurance solutions beyond our standard market property casualty insurance products. We market life insurance products through the agencies that offer our property casualty products and through other independent life agencies that represent Cincinnati Life without also representing our other subsidiaries. We operate our own excess and surplus lines insurance brokerage firm and insurance carrier so that we can offer our excess and surplus lines products exclusively to the independent agencies who market our other property casualty insurance products. For our life insurance operation, property casualty agencies make up the main distribution system. To help that operation build scale, we also develop life insurance business from other independent life insurance agencies in geographic markets underserved through our property casualty agencies. We are careful to solicit business from these other agencies in a manner that does not compete with the life insurance marketing and sales efforts of our property casualty agencies. Cincinnati Life emphasizes up-to-date products, responsive underwriting, high-quality service and competitive pricing. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 6 Our excess and surplus lines insurance operation helps meet the specific insurance needs of certain agency clients. Generally, excess and surplus lines insurance carriers provide insurance that is unavailable in the standard market due to market conditions or characteristics of the insured persons or organizations that are caused by their nature, claim history or the characteristics of their business. Insurers operating in the excess and surplus lines marketplace generally market business through excess and surplus lines brokers, whether they are small specialty insurers or specialized divisions of larger insurance organizations. Agencies have access to Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters' product line through CSU Producer Resources, the wholly owned insurance brokerage subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation. By providing superior service, we can help our agencies grow while also profitably growing our property casualty insurance business. The table below includes data about property casualty agency relationships that market our standard market insurance products. It does not include Lloyd's brokers or coverholders that source business for Cincinnati Global. Agency Data Years ended December 31, 2019 2018 Property casualty agency relationships, January 1 1,757 1,702 New appointments that market all or most of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies' products 117 98 New appointments that market only personal lines insurance products for Cincinnati Insurance 70 69 Changes due to consolidation and other (148) (112) Property casualty agency relationships, December 31 1,796 1,757 Property casualty reporting locations 2,458 2,344 New relationship appointments 112 111 Active states 45 42 The annual total of agency new appointments may be partially offset by other changes in agency structures, such as consolidation through mergers or acquisitions. An increasing number of agencies have multiple, separately identifiable locations, reflecting their growth as well as consolidation of ownership within the independent agency marketplace. The number of reporting agency locations indicates our agents regional scope and the extent of our presence within our active states. The difference between new appointments in total and the number of new relationships represents either: new branch offices opened by existing Cincinnati agencies; or agencies that merged with another Cincinnati agency and we still believed would produce a meaningful amount of new business premiums. On average, we have a 7.7% share of the standard lines property casualty insurance purchased through our reporting agency locations, according to 2018 data from agency surveys. Our share is 13.8% in reporting agency locations that have represented us for more than 10 years; 6.6% in agencies that have represented us for six to 10 years; 2.0% in agencies that have represented us for two to five years; and 0.7% in agencies that have represented us for one year or less. Our largest single agency relationship accounted for approximately 1.3% of our total property casualty earned premiums in 2019. No aggregate locations under a single ownership structure accounted for more than 4% of our earned premiums in 2019. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 7 Financial Strength We believe that our financial strength and strong capital and surplus position, reflected in our insurer financial strength ratings, are clear, competitive advantages in the segments of the insurance marketplace that we serve. This strength supports the consistent, predictable performance that our policyholders, agents, associates and shareholders have always expected and received, helping us withstand significant challenges. While the potential exists for short-term financial performance variability due to our exposures to possible natural or man-made catastrophes or to significant capital market losses, the rating agencies consistently assert that we have built appropriate financial strength and flexibility to manage that variability. We remain committed to strategies that emphasize being a consistent, stable market for our agents business rather than seeking short-term benefits that might accrue by quick, opportunistic reaction to changes in market conditions. We use various principles and practices such as diversification and enterprise risk management to maintain strong capital. For example, we maintain a diversified investment portfolio by reviewing and applying specific parameters and tolerances. Our $11.698 billion fixed-maturity portfolio is diversified and exceeds total insurance reserves. The portfolio had an average rating of A2/A, and its fair value exceeded total insurance reserve liabilities by approximately 30% at December 31, 2019. No corporate bond exposure accounted for more than 0.7% of our fixed-maturity portfolio, and no municipal exposure accounted for more than 0.2%. The strength of our fixed-maturity portfolio provides an opportunity to invest for potential capital appreciation by purchasing equity securities. Our $7.752 billion equity portfolio minimizes concentrations in single stocks or industries. At December 31, 2019, no single security accounted for more than 5.6% of our portfolio of publicly traded common stocks, and no single sector accounted for more than 24%. Strong liquidity increases our flexibility through all periods to maintain our cash dividend and to continue to invest in and expand our insurance operations. At December 31, 2019, we held $3.418 billion of our cash and invested assets at the parent-company level, of which $3.068 billion, or 89.8%, was invested in common stocks, and $197 million, or 5.8%, was cash and cash equivalents. We minimize reliance on debt as a source of capital, with a debt-to-total-capital ratio of 7.7% at year-end 2019. Long-term debt at year-end 2019 totaled $788 million, matching year-end 2018, and our short-term debt was $39 million, up from $32 million at the end of the prior year. The long-term debt consists of three nonconvertible, noncallable debentures, two due in 2028 and one in 2034. Ratings for our long-term debt are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 8 At year-end 2019 and 2018, risk-based capital (RBC) for our standard market property casualty insurance, excess and surplus lines insurance and life insurance subsidiaries was strong, far exceeding regulatory requirements. We ended 2019 with a 1.0-to-1 ratio of property casualty premiums to surplus, a key measure of property casualty insurance company capacity and security. A lower ratio indicates more security for policyholders and greater capacity for growth by an insurer. We believe our ratio provides ample flexibility to diversify risk by expanding our operations into new geographies and product areas. The estimated industry average ratio was 0.8-to-1 at year-end 2019, based on industry data reported through the first nine months of 2019. We ended 2019 with a 6.6% ratio of life statutory adjusted risk-based surplus to liabilities, a key measure of life insurance company capital strength. A higher ratio indicates an insurer s stronger security for policyholders and capacity to support business growth. (Dollars in millions) Statutory Information At December 31, 2019 2018 Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiary Statutory capital and surplus $ 5,620 $ 4,919 Risk-based capital 5,654 4,952 Authorized control level risk-based capital 823 723 Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio 6.9 6.8 Written premium to surplus ratio 1.0 1.0 Excess and surplus lines insurance subsidiary Statutory capital and surplus $ 526 $ 479 Risk-based capital 526 479 Authorized control level risk-based capital 54 41 Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio 9.8 11.8 Written premium to surplus ratio 0.6 0.5 Life insurance subsidiary Statutory capital and surplus $ 204 $ 191 Risk-based capital 239 223 Authorized control level risk-based capital 53 51 Total liabilities excluding separate account business 3,643 3,538 Risk-based capital to authorized control level risk-based capital ratio 4.5 4.4 Life statutory risk-based adjusted surplus to liabilities ratio 6.6 6.4 On a statutory consolidated property casualty insurance basis, the ratio of investments in common stock, at fair value, to statutory capital and surplus was 78.7% at year-end 2019 compared with 70.9% at year-end 2018. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 9 Cincinnati Financial Corporation s senior debt is rated by four independent rating firms. In addition, the rating firms award our property casualty and life operations insurance financial strength ratings based on their quantitative and qualitative analyses. These ratings assess an insurer s ability to meet financial obligations to policyholders and do not necessarily address all of the matters that may be important to shareholders. Ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. At February 24, 2020, our insurance subsidiaries continued to be highly rated. Insurer Financial Strength Ratings Rating agency Standard market property casualty insurance subsidiary Life insurance subsidiary Excess and surplus lines insurance subsidiary Outlook Rating Tier Rating Tier Rating Tier A.M. Best Company ambest.com A+ Superior 2 of 16 A+ Superior 2 of 16 A+ Superior 2 of 16 Stable Fitch Ratings fitchratings.com A+ Strong 5 of 21 A+ Strong 5 of 21 - - - Stable Moody's Investors Service moodys.com A1 Good 5 of 21 - - - - - - Positive S P Global Ratings spratings.com A+ Strong 5 of 21 A+ Strong 5 of 21 - - - Stable On January 30, 2020, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, and its property casualty insurance subsidiaries, that it had assigned in December 2008, continuing its stable outlook. On the same date, A.M. Best upgraded the financial strength rating of The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company, changing the outlook to stable. On November 8, 2019, Fitch affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in August 2009, continuing its stable outlook. On September 9, 2019, S P affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in June 2015, continuing its stable outlook. On December 21, 2018, Moody's affirmed the ratings that it had assigned to us in September 2008, changing its outlook to positive. Our debt ratings are discussed in Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Additional Sources of Liquidity. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 10 Operating Structure We offer our broad array of insurance products through the independent agency distribution channel. We recognize that locally based independent agencies have relationships in their communities and local marketplace intelligence that can lead to profitable business and policyholder satisfaction and loyalty. Several of our strategic initiatives are intended not only to help us compete but also to enhance support of agencies that represent us, thereby contributing to agency success. We seek to be a consistent and predictable property casualty carrier that agencies can rely on to serve their clients. In our 10 highest volume states for consolidated property casualty premiums, 1,200 reporting agency locations wrote 54.8% of our 2019 consolidated property casualty earned premium volume compared with 1,181 locations and 58.4% in 2018. We continue efforts to geographically diversify our property casualty risks. Our 10 largest states based on property casualty premium volume, excluding Cincinnati Re and Cincinnati Global, are shown in the table below. (Dollars in millions) Earned premiums % of total earned Agency locations Average premium per location Year ended December 31, 2019 Ohio $ 806 15.1 % 250 $ 3.2 Illinois 295 5.5 153 1.9 Georgia 291 5.5 107 2.7 North Carolina 274 5.1 110 2.5 Indiana 264 4.9 118 2.2 Pennsylvania 263 4.9 142 1.9 Michigan 210 3.9 135 1.6 Tennessee 189 3.5 62 3.0 Virginia 177 3.3 71 2.5 Alabama 166 3.1 52 3.2 Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 11 Field Focus Emphasizing Service We rely on our force of 1,818 field associates to provide service and be accountable to our agencies for decisions we make at the local level. These associates live in the communities our agents serve, so they are readily available when agencies or policyholders need them. While their work is often conducted at the premises of the agency or policyholder, they also work from offices in their homes. Headquarters associates support agencies and field associates with underwriting, accounting, technology assistance, training and other services. Company executives and headquarters associates regularly travel to visit agencies, strengthening the personal relationships we have with these organizations. Agents have opportunities for direct, personal conversations with our senior management team, and headquarters associates have opportunities to refresh their knowledge of marketplace conditions and field activities. The field team is coordinated by field marketing representatives responsible for underwriting new commercial lines business. They are joined by field representatives specializing in claims, loss control, commercial lines key accounts, personal lines, excess and surplus lines, machinery and equipment, management liability and surety, premium audit and life insurance. The field team provides a variety of services, such as recommending specific actions to improve the safety of the policyholder s operations. We seek to develop long-term relationships by understanding the unique needs of each agency's clients, who are also our policyholders. Technology enhances our service to agencies, allowing them to more easily access our systems and process business transactions. Policyholders can conveniently access pertinent policy information online, helping to reduce costs for agencies and the company. Technology also helps our associates collaborate and process business efficiently, providing more time for personal service to agencies and their clients. We also provide and continue to develop enhanced, tailored services offered at the time a claim is reported for an insured loss event. Those services include assisting with car rental or towing, arranging temporary housing and coordinating emergency repairs to homes so additional damage is minimized. Our claims philosophy reflects our belief that we prosper as a company by responding to claims person to person, paying covered claims promptly, preventing false claims from unfairly adding to overall premiums and building financial strength to meet future obligations. Our 994 locally based field claims associates work from their homes and are assigned to specific agencies. They respond personally to policyholders and claimants and are equipped to handle a claim from nearly anywhere. We believe we have a competitive advantage because of the person-to-person approach and the resulting high level of service that our field claims representatives deliver. We also help our agencies provide prompt service to policyholders by providing them authority to immediately pay, up to $2,500, most first-party claims covered by our standard market policies. Agencies also have the option of submitting those claims to our Express Claims Center where professional headquarters associates will provide immediate customer service, processing the claims promptly and efficiently. We believe this same local approach to handling claims is a competitive advantage for our agents providing excess and surplus lines coverage in their communities. Handling of these claims includes guidance from headquarters-based excess and surplus lines claims managers. Catastrophe response teams are comprised of our experienced field claims associates who have the authority they need to do their jobs. In times of widespread loss, our field claims representatives confidently and quickly resolve claims, often providing claims payments on the same day they inspect the loss. Technology helps to enable fast initial contact with policyholders and easy sharing of information and data among storm teams, headquarters associates and local field claims representatives. When hurricanes or other weather events are predicted, we can identify through mapping technologies the expected number of our policyholders that may be impacted by the event and choose to have catastrophe response team members travel to strategic locations near the expected impact area. They are then in position to quickly get to the affected area and begin providing service to policyholders. Cincinnati Financial Corporation - 2019 10-K - Page 12 We st