Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [Reserved] 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 57 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 57 Item 9B. Other Information 57 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 57 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11. Executive Compensation 58 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 59 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 59 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 59 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 60 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 64 Signatures 65 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS (a) General Development of the Business Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, we, us, our, the Company or Colgate ) is a caring, innovative growth company reimagining a healthier future for all people, their pets and our planet. We seek to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and superior shareholder returns, as well as provide Colgate people with an innovative and inclusive work environment. We do this by developing and selling products globally that make people s and their pets lives healthier and more enjoyable and by embracing our sustainability and social impact and diversity, equity and inclusion ( DE I ) strategies across our organization. Our products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923. For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview, Outlook, Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7 of this report. (c) Narrative Description of the Business We operate in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. We are a leader in Oral Care with global leadership in the toothpaste and manual toothbrush categories according to market share data. We sell our toothpastes under brands such as Colgate, Darlie, elmex, hello, meridol, Sorriso and Tom s of Maine, our toothbrushes under brands such as Colgate, Darlie, elmex and meridol and our mouthwashes under brands such as Colgate, elmex and meridol. Our Oral Care business also includes pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals. We are a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market with global leadership in liquid hand soap, according to market share data, which we sell under brands such as Palmolive, Protex and Softsoap. Our Personal Care products also include Irish Spring, Palmolive and Protex bar soaps, Irish Spring, Palmolive, Sanex and Softsoap shower gels, Lady Speed Stick, Sanex, Speed Stick and Tom s of Maine deodorants and antiperspirants, EltaMD, Filorga and PCA SKIN skin health products and Palmolive shampoos and conditioners. We manufacture and market a wide array of products for the Home Care market, including Ajax, Axion and Palmolive dishwashing liquids and Ajax, Fabuloso and Murphy household cleaners. We are a market leader in fabric conditioners with leading brands, including Suavitel in Latin America, Soupline in Europe, and Cuddly in the South Pacific, according to market share data. Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for 44%, 20% and 17%, respectively, of our total worldwide Net sales in 2021. Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of our business in Asia Pacific, comprising approximately 81% of Net sales in that region for 2021. Through our Hill s Pet Nutrition segment ( Hill s or Pet Nutrition ), we are a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 80 countries and territories worldwide. Hill s markets pet foods primarily under two brands. Hill s Science Diet, which is called Hill s Science Plan in Europe, is a range of products for everyday nutritional needs. Hill s Prescription Diet is a range of therapeutic products to help nutritionally manage disease conditions in dogs and cats. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 19% of our total worldwide Net sales in 2021. For more information regarding our worldwide Net sales by product category, refer to Note 1, Nature of Operations and Note 14, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding market share data, see Market Share Information in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 1 Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents Our Oral, Personal and Home Care products are sold to a variety of traditional and eCommerce retailers, wholesalers and distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products are sold by authorized pet supply retailers, veterinarians and eCommerce retailers. Certain of our products are also sold direct-to-consumer. Our sales to Walmart, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 12% of our Net sales in 2021. No other customer represents more than 10% of our Net sales. We support our products with advertising, promotion and other marketing (with increasing emphasis on digital) to build awareness and trial of our products. Our products are marketed by a direct sales force at individual operating subsidiaries or business units and by distributors or brokers. The majority of raw and packaging materials used in our products are purchased from other companies and is available from several sources. No single raw or packaging material represents, and no single supplier provides, a significant portion of our total material requirements. We do, however, purchase certain key raw and packaging materials from single-source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers. For certain materials, however, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and/or Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take a significant period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities, such as essential oils, resins, tropical oils, pulp, tallow, corn, poultry and soybeans, are subject to market price variations. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see Item 1A, Risk Factors - Volatility in material and other costs could adversely impact our profitability and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased retail trade concentration, the rapid growth of eCommerce, the integration of traditional and digital operations at key retailers and the growing presence of large-format retailers, discounters and eCommerce retailers. Products similar to those that we produce and sell are available from multinational and local competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do. In addition, the substantial growth in eCommerce has encouraged the entry of new competitors and business models. In certain geographies, we also face strong local competitors, who may be more agile and have better local consumer insights than we do. Private label brands sold by retailers are also a source of competition for certain of our products. The retail landscape in many of our markets continues to evolve as a result of the rapid growth of eCommerce retailers, changing consumer preferences (as consumers increasingly shop online and via mobile and social applications) and the increased presence of alternative retail channels, such as subscription services and direct-to-consumer businesses. These trends have accelerated during the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced disruptions in certain channels, including travel retail. We also continue to see changes in the purchasing patterns of our consumers, including the nature and/or frequency of visits by consumers to retailers and dental, veterinary and skin health professionals as well as a shift, in many markets, to purchasing our products online. We face competition in several aspects of our business, including pricing, promotional activities, new product and brand introductions and expansion into new geographies and channels. Product quality, innovation, brand recognition, marketing capability and acceptance of new products and brands largely determine success in Colgate s operating segments. We consider trademarks to be of material importance to our business. We follow a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and throughout the world where our products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, elmex, hello, meridol, Sorriso, Tom s of Maine, EltaMD, Filorga, Irish Spring, Lady Speed Stick, PCA SKIN, Protex, Sanex, Softsoap, Speed Stick, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Murphy, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill s Science Diet and Hill s Prescription Diet. Our rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and/or registered. Although we actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole. 2 COVID-19 COVID-19 and government steps to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19 have had and continue to have a profound impact on the way people live, work, interact and shop and have significantly impacted and may continue to impact economic activity around the world. During the COVID-19 pandemic, many of the communities in which we manufacture, market and sell our products experienced and in some cases continue to experience stay at home orders, travel or movement restrictions and other government actions to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19, and have implemented varying policies to address the pandemic, resume economic activity and vaccinate their populations. Because the vast majority of our products (such as oral care products, soaps and other personal hygiene products, home cleaners and pet food) have been deemed essential for the health and well-being of people and their pets, we have, in most instances, been able to continue operating our business, although not always at full capacity. In doing so, the health, safety and well-being of our employees and their families has been and remains our first priority. In addition, some of our suppliers, customers, distributors, logistics providers and service providers have experienced disruptions to their businesses. We saw a significant increase in demand across many of our categories, such as liquid hand soap, dish liquid, bar soap and cleaners, during 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, driven by consumer pantry-loading and increased consumption of our products. While consumer demand for most of these categories declined year-over-year in 2021, most remained above historical levels, and we believe that some of this increase in consumption is sustainable in light of changes in consumer behavior related to COVID-19. Across our business, changes in consumer demand for our products vary by product category and geography depending on, among other things, the severity of the COVID-19 outbreak, the availability of our products at retailers and supply chain disruptions. The COVID-19 pandemic and government steps to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19 have impacted and may continue to impact our consumers ability to purchase and our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. While we believe that, in the long-term, consumer demand for the products in our categories will continue to be strong, uncertainties continue surrounding the timing and duration of the pandemic and the recovery from it. COVID-19 has also disrupted our retail customers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers and other third parties; their ability to address COVID-19 and maintain their operations at full capacity has impacted and may continue to impact sales of and consumer access to our products. In particular, COVID-19 has disrupted, and may continue to disrupt, the travel retail channel. We expect the ongoing economic impact, health concerns associated with COVID-19 and supply chain disruptions to continue to impact consumer behavior, shopping patterns and consumption preferences during 2022. For additional information regarding COVID-19 s impact on our business, see Part I,