Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2. Properties 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 56 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 56 Item 9B. Other Information 56 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 57 Item 11. Executive Compensation 57 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 58 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 58 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 59 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 62 Signatures 63 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS (a) General Development of the Business Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the Company or Colgate ) is a leading consumer products company whose products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923. For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview, Outlook, Results of Operations, Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges and Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7 of this report. (c) Narrative Description of the Business The Company operates in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Colgate is a leader in Oral Care with global leadership in the toothpaste and manual toothbrush categories according to market share data. Colgate s Oral Care products include Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection, Colgate Total, Colgate Triple Action, Darlie Double Action, Colgate Max Fresh, Colgate Optic White, Colgate Whitening and Colgate Max White toothpastes, Colgate 360 , Colgate Extra Clean and Colgate Slim Soft manual toothbrushes and Colgate Plax, meridol and Colgate Total mouthwashes. Colgate s Oral Care business also includes pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals. Colgate is a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market with global leadership in liquid hand soap, which it sells under the Softsoap, Palmolive and Protex brands according to market share data. Colgate s Personal Care products also include Protex, Palmolive and Irish Spring bar soaps, Palmolive, Sanex and Softsoap shower gels, Speed Stick, Sanex and Lady Speed Stick deodorants and antiperspirants, Filorga, Elta MD and PCA Skin skin health products and Palmolive and Caprice shampoos and conditioners. Colgate manufactures and markets a wide array of products for the Home Care market, including Palmolive and Ajax dishwashing liquids and Fabuloso, Murphy s Oil Soap and Ajax household cleaners. Colgate is a market leader in fabric conditioners with leading brands, including Suavitel in Latin America, Soupline in Europe, and Cuddly in the South Pacific, according to market share data. Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for 46% , 20% and 18% , respectively, of the Company s total worldwide Net sales in 2019 . Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of the Company s business in Asia Pacific, comprising approximately 82% of Net sales in that region for 2019 . Colgate, through its Hill s Pet Nutrition segment ( Hill s or Pet Nutrition ), is a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 80 countries and territories worldwide. Hill s markets pet foods primarily under two brands. Hill s Science Diet, which is called Hill s Science Plan in Europe, is a range of products for everyday nutritional needs. Hill s Prescription Diet is a range of therapeutic products to help nutritionally manage disease conditions in dogs and cats. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 16% of the Company s total worldwide Net sales in 2019 . For more information regarding the Company s worldwide Net sales by product category, refer to Note 1, Nature of Operations and Note 14, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding market share data, see Market Share Information in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 1 Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents The Company s Oral, Personal and Home Care products are sold to a variety of traditional and eCommerce retailers, wholesalers and distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products are sold by authorized pet supply retailers, veterinarians and eCommerce retailers. The Company s sales to Wal-Mart, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 11% of the Company s Net sales in 2019 . No other customer represents more than 10% of the Company s Net sales. The Company supports its products with advertising, promotion and other marketing (with increasing emphasis on digital) to build awareness and trial of the Company s products. The Company s products are marketed by a direct sales force at individual operating subsidiaries or business units, and by distributors or brokers. The majority of raw and packaging materials used in the Company s products is purchased from other companies and is available from several sources. No single raw or packaging material represents, and no single supplier provides, a significant portion of the Company s total material requirements. For certain materials, however, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities, such as resins, essential oils, pulp, tropical oils, tallow, poultry, corn and soybeans, are subject to market price variations. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see Item 1A, Risk Factors - Volatility in material and other costs could adversely impact our profitability and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company s products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased trade concentration, the rapid growth of eCommerce, the integration of traditional and digital operations at key retailers and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. Products similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from multinational and local competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of the Company s competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. In certain geographies, the Company also faces strong local competitors, who may be more agile and have better local consumer insights than the Company. Private label brands sold by retailers are also a source of competition for certain of the Company s products. The retail landscape in many of the Company s markets continues to be impacted by the rapid growth of eCommerce retailers, changing consumer preferences (as consumers increasingly shop online) and the emergence of alternative retail channels, such as subscription services and direct-to-customer businesses. The Company faces competition in several aspects of its business, including pricing, promotional activities, new product and brand introductions and expansion into new geographies and channels. Product quality, innovation, brand recognition, marketing capability and acceptance of new products and brands largely determine success in the Company s operating segments. The Company considers trademarks to be of material importance to its business. The Company follows a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and throughout the world where the Company s products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, elmex, meridol, Tom s of Maine, Sorriso, Hello, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sanex, Filorga, Elta MD, PCA Skin, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill s Science Diet and Hill s Prescription Diet. The Company s rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and/or registered. Although the Company actively develops and maintains a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole. Environmental Matters The Company has programs that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities meet or exceed standards established by applicable environmental rules and regulations. Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities totaled approximately $46 million for 2019 . For future years, expenditures are currently expected to be of a similar magnitude. For additional information regarding environmental matters refer to Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 Employees As of December 31, 2019 , the Company employed approximately 34,300 employees. Information about our Executive Officers The following is a list of executive officers as of February 21, 2020 : Name Age Date First Elected Officer Present Title Ian Cook 67 1996 Executive Chairman Noel R. Wallace 55 2009 President and Chief Executive Officer Henning I. Jakobsen 59 2017 Chief Financial Officer John J. Huston 65 2002 Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff Daniel B. Marsili 59 2005 Chief Human Resources Officer Patricia Verduin 60 2011 Chief Technology Officer Jennifer M. Daniels 56 2014 Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Philip G. Shotts 65 2018 Vice President and Controller John W. Kooyman 55 2019 Chief Marketing Officer Prabha Parameswaran 61 2019 Group President, Global Innovation Group and Africa-Eurasia Panagiotis Tsourapas 55 2019 Group President, Latin America and Asia Pacific Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years. Under the Company s By-Laws, the officers of the corporation hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified or until they have resigned, retired or been removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board ). There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected. (e) Available Information The Company s website address is www.colgatepalmolive.com . The information contained on the Company s website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, its interactive data files posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, its Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Also available on the Company s website are the Company s Code of Conduct and Board Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, the charters of the Committees of the Board, Specialized Disclosure Reports on Form SD, reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in Company stock by directors and executive officers and its proxy statements. 3