Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 60 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 60 Item 9B. Other Information 60 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 60 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 61 Item 11. Executive Compensation 61 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 62 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 62 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 62 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 63 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 67 Signatures 68 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Development of the Business Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, we, us, our, the Company or Colgate ) is a caring, innovative growth company reimagining a healthier future for all people, their pets and our planet. We seek to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and superior shareholder returns, as well as provide Colgate people with an innovative and inclusive work environment. We do this by developing and selling science-led products globally that make people s and their pets lives healthier and more enjoyable and by embracing our sustainability and social impact and diversity, equity and inclusion ( DE I ) strategies across our organization. Our products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923. For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview, Outlook, Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7 of this report. Description of the Business We operate in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. We are a leader in Oral Care with global leadership in the toothpaste and manual toothbrush categories according to market share data. We sell our toothpastes under brands such as Colgate, Darlie, elmex, hello, meridol, Sorriso and Tom s of Maine, our toothbrushes under brands such as Colgate, Darlie, elmex and meridol and our mouthwashes under brands such as Colgate, elmex and meridol. Our Oral Care business also includes pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals. We are a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market with global leadership in liquid hand soap, according to market share data, which we sell under brands such as Palmolive, Protex and Softsoap. Our Personal Care products also include Irish Spring, Palmolive and Protex bar soaps, Irish Spring, Palmolive, Sanex and Softsoap shower gels, Lady Speed Stick, Sanex, Speed Stick and Tom s of Maine deodorants and antiperspirants, EltaMD, Filorga and PCA SKIN skin health products and Palmolive shampoos and conditioners. We manufacture and market a wide array of products for the Home Care market, including Ajax, Axion and Palmolive dishwashing liquids, Ajax, Fabuloso and Murphy household cleaners and Suavitel, Soupline, Fluffy and Cuddly fabric conditioners. Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for 42%, 19% and 17%, respectively, of our total worldwide Net sales in 2023. Geographically, Oral Care is a substantial part of our business in Asia Pacific. Through our Hill s Pet Nutrition segment ( Hill s or Pet Nutrition ), we are a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 80 countries and territories worldwide. Hill s markets pet foods primarily under two brands. Hill s Science Diet, which is called Hill s Science Plan in Europe, is a range of products for everyday nutritional needs. Hill s Prescription Diet is a range of therapeutic pet foods to help nutritionally support dogs and cats in different stages of health. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 22% of our total worldwide Net sales in 2023. For more information regarding our worldwide Net sales by product category, refer to Note 1, Nature of Operations and Note 14, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding market share data, see Market Share Information in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 1 Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents Our Oral, Personal and Home Care products are sold to a variety of traditional and eCommerce retailers, wholesalers and distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products are sold by authorized pet supply retailers, veterinarians and eCommerce retailers. Certain of our products are also sold direct-to-consumer. Our sales to Walmart, Inc. and its affiliates represented approximately 11% of our Net sales in 2023. No other customer represented more than 10% of our Net sales. We support our products with advertising, promotion and other marketing (with increasing emphasis on digital) to build awareness and trial of our products. Our products are marketed by a direct sales force at individual operating subsidiaries or business units and by distributors or brokers. The majority of raw and packaging materials used in our products is purchased from other companies and is available from several sources. No single raw or packaging material represents, and no single supplier provides, a significant portion of our total material requirements. We do, however, purchase certain key raw and packaging materials from single-source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers. For certain materials, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and/or Colgate standards (including those relating to responsible sourcing), which can require additional investment and/or take a significant period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities, such as resins, essential oils, tropical oils, pulp, tallow, corn, poultry and soybeans, are subject to market price variations. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see Item 1A, Risk Factors - Volatility in material and other costs has in the past and may continue to adversely impact our profitability and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased retail trade concentration, the substantial growth of eCommerce, the integration of traditional and digital operations at key retailers and the growing presence of large-format retailers, discounters and eCommerce retailers. Products similar to ours are available from multinational and local competitors in the U.S. and around the world. Certain of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do. In addition, the substantial growth in eCommerce has encouraged the entry of new competitors and business models. In certain geographies, we also face strong local competitors, who may be more agile and have better local consumer insights than we do. Private label brands sold by retailers are also a source of competition for certain of our products. The retail landscape in many of our markets continues to evolve as a result of the continued growth of eCommerce, changing consumer behavior and preferences (as consumers increasingly shop online and via mobile and social applications) and the increased presence of alternative retail channels, such as subscription services and direct-to-consumer businesses. We face competition in several aspects of our business, including pricing, promotional activities, new products and brand introductions and expansion into new geographies and channels. We consider trademarks to be material to our business. We follow a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and throughout the world where our products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Darlie, elmex, hello, meridol, Sorriso, Tom s of Maine, EltaMD, Filorga, Irish Spring, Lady Speed Stick, PCA SKIN, Protex, Sanex, Softsoap, Speed Stick, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Murphy, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill s Science Diet and Hill s Prescription Diet. Our rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and/or registered. Although we actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole. 2 Government Regulations As a global company, we are subject to extensive governmental regulations, including environmental rules and regulations, in the U.S. and abroad. The most significant government regulations that impact our business are discussed below. It is our policy and practice to comply with all government regulations applicable to our business. In 2023, compliance with these regulations did not have, and we do not expect such compliance in the future to have, a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. For further discussion of how global legal and regulatory requirements may impact our business, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Product Development : Legal and regulatory requirements apply to most aspects of our products, including their development, ingredients, formulation, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, transportation, distribution, export, import, advertising, sale and environmental impact. U.S. federal authorities, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational, Health and Safety Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, regulate different aspects of our business, along with parallel authorities at the state and local levels and comparable authorities overseas. Anti-Corruption, Anti-Bribery, Commercial Bribery and Competition : We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws that generally prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to foreign government officials and political figures for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to gain an unfair business advantage, and laws that prohibit commercial bribery. In addition, our selling practices are regulated by competition law authorities in the U.S. and abroad. Privacy and Data Protection : Our collection, storage, transfer and/or processing of customer, consumer, employee, vendor and other stakeholder information and personal data is subject to important data protection laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad, including the General Data Protection Regulation. Trade Compliance : We are subject to laws and sanctions imposed by the U.S., including those imposed by the U.S. Treasury Department s Office of Foreign Asset Control ( OFAC ) and/or by other jurisdictions that may prohibit us or certain of our affiliates from doing business in certain countries or restrict the kind of business that may be conducted. For information regarding the impact of the war in Ukraine, refer to Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Executive Overview. Human Capital Management Human capital matters at Colgate are managed by our Global Human Resources function, led by our Chief Human Resources Officer, with oversight from the Personnel and Organization Committee of our Board of Directors (the Board ). As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 34,000 employees based in over 100 countries. Approximately two-thirds of our revenues are generated from markets outside the U.S. and 84% of our employees are located outside the U.S. Approximately 34% of our employees are based in Asia Pacific, 30% are based in Latin America, 14% are based in Europe, 17% are based in North America and 5% are based in Africa/Eurasia. Our global workforce covers a broad range of functions, from manufacturing employees to management personnel and certain of our employees are represented by unions or works councils. Colgate s Culture and Core Values Colgate s purpose is to reimagine a healthier future for all people, their pets and our planet. We believe Colgate people are crucial to our ongoing business success and aim to recruit, develop and retain strong and diverse talent. We celebrate differences, promote an equitable and inclusive environment and value the contributions of all Colgate people. At Colgate, we are proud of our collaborative spirit - what we call The Power of WE. Colgate people, working around the world, share a commitment to our three corporate values: We are Caring, We are Inclusive and We are Courageous. These evolved values, which were reimagined in 2023, represent who we are and inspire Colgate people to carry Colgate forward into the future. By encouraging Colgate people to be more caring, inclusive and courageous every day, our goal is to create a healthier future for ourselves and others. Underlying these values and our strong culture is the commitment of all Colgate people to maintain the highest ethical standards and demonstrate ethical leadership, including compliance with Colgate policies and our Code of Conduct. 3 WE ARE CARING: We are united in making the world a better place. We believe everyone deserves a healthier life. We lead with empathy, respect and gratitude. We act with integrity, doing things the right way, for the right reasons no matter what. We support others by generously sharing our resources and talents. We work every day to earn the trust of all of our stakeholders. WE ARE INCLUSIVE: We create a sense of belonging for all and cultivate an environment where people can be their authentic selves. We foster a culture of belonging where Colgate people feel valued, part of a global team, and empowered to do extraordinary things. We design the best solutions by embracing the unique talents, perspectives and backgrounds of our diverse workforce. We form the strongest teams and create powerful pathways for our people and communities, to break through everyday barriers to equality of opportunity. WE ARE COURAGEOUS: We drive change and get things done. We are infinitely curious, constantly searching for better ways of working. We challenge each other and how we do things, unafraid to disrupt the status quo, boldly and intentionally innovating, exploring and reaching for what is possible. We recognize that to grow and thrive we must build on the power of our legacy, our scale and reach for good and for all. We are committed to getting better every day in all that we do, as individuals and as teams. We continue to drive a learning culture and transform our learning strategy to better meet our evolving business needs. We provide our employees with learning experiences focused on building leadership skills and offer training programs that are closely aligned with our business strategy. We continue to embed digital capabilities across the organization. Through our continuous learning program, our employees have the opportunity to enhance their knowledge of data analytics and digital skills. We are also committed to listening to our employees and seeing how the company is evolving and growing through regular employee engagement surveys. We also recently launched a new leadership framework anchored in three core principles: cultivate trust, create the future and commit to impact. We believe these principles serve as a foundation to guide our ongoing transformation by defining the behaviors that Colgate people need to model. Diversity, Equity Inclusion As a truly global company, it is important that our employees reflect the diversity of the communities in which we live and work. As of December 31, 2023, our global workforce was approximately 59% male and 41% female. Women represented approximately 54% of our salaried and clerical employees, 46% of our people managers, 45% of Colgate s executives and 38% of senior leadership. Measuring the race/ethnicity of our workforce is challenging to do on a global basis. In the U.S., on an employee self-reported basis, the racial/ethnic composition of our workforce was approximately 67% White, 12% Hispanic, 10% Black, 9% Asian and 2% Other. The racial/ethnic composition of our people managers was approximately 61% White, 16% Hispanic, 14% Asian and 9% Black; the composition of our executives was approximately 56% White, 20% Hispanic, 16% Asian, 7% Black and 1% Other; and the composition of senior leadership was approximately 59% White, 17% Hispanic, 12% Asian and 12% Black. Other refers to American Indian/Alaska Native, two or more races or Native Hawaiian/other Pacific Islander. In this section, people managers refers to employees with roles that have at least one direct report, executives refers to those employees who are eligible to participate in Colgate s equity incentive compensation plans and senior leadership refers to employees who are Senior Vice Presidents and above. We are committed to providing all of our employees with an equitable and inclusive work environment, learning opportunities and promotion and growth opportunities. A vital piece of our DE I strategy has been ensuring that our succession planning process incorporates the equal opportunity for advancement of women and people from underrepresented communities. To help further foster inclusiveness, we support employee resource groups for team members of many different identities, interests and backgrounds, including underrepresented communities. Each of these resource groups contributes to our inclusive work environment by developing and implementing programs to promote business and community involvement as well as cultural awareness. We also partner with external organizations to develop an inclusive and supportive work environment. Our global DE I strategy aims to further advance our commitment to become an even more diverse, equitable and inclusive organization through its four pillars of People, Community, Supplier Diversity and Communication. Consistent with this strategy, we are working to implement policies, learning experiences and processes that promote awareness, 4 empathy, advocacy and opportunity; become an ally for positive change for the underserved in communities in which we live and work; support minority and women-owned suppliers to enable success of diversity-owned businesses; and promote dialogue around DE I to increase awareness and advance the culture change to achieve our vision. Our Board, through its Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee and Personnel and Organization Committee, receives regular updates from management on our DE I efforts. Succession Planning We have a rigorous succession planning process, led by our Global Human Resources function. Our Board is also extensively involved in succession planning and people development with special focus on CEO succession. As part of the succession planning process, we review and discuss potential successors to key positions and examine backgrounds, capabilities and appropriate developmental assignments. Compensation Philosophy Given the importance of Colgate people to our business success, motivating and retaining critical talent is a key focus. We view compensation as an important tool to motivate leaders at all levels of the organization. For information regarding our compensation philosophy and executive compensation programs, please see our Proxy Statement to be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) in connection with the 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Sustainability and Social Impact Sustainability is critically important to our overall business and growth strategy. Our 2025 Sustainability Social Impact Strategy is focused on three key ambitions - preserving our environment by accelerating action on climate change and reducing our environmental footprint; helping millions of homes by empowering people to develop healthier habits; and driving social impact with a commitment to helping to ensure the well-being of all people and their pets. These ambitions are supported by actionable targets consistent with our continued commitment to building environmental and social consciousness into our decision-making. In 2023, we made progress on the targets set forth in our 2025 Sustainability Social Impact Strategy. Reduce Plastic Waste: As a positive step toward achieving our target to make all of our packaging recyclable, reusable or compostable by 2025, we continue to implement our first-of-its-kind recyclable toothpaste tube across our toothpaste portfolio. We introduced this tube in 2019 and, as of December 31, 2023, we have transitioned approximately 60% of our toothpaste SKUs globally and approximately 90% of our toothpaste SKUs in North America to it. The recyclable toothpaste tube is now available in over 50 countries worldwide. We continue to share the tube technology with third parties by holding approximately 80 sessions to encourage recyclability of all tubes in practice and at scale. We are also focused on working with recycling stakeholders and partnering with key third parties to drive tube acceptance and communicating that consumers should check with their local facilities to see if they accept the tubes for recycling. We also remain committed to reducing our use of new (virgin) plastic across our portfolio and continue to make progress toward our target to reduce new (virgin) plastic by one-third versus 2019. We are working towards this target with product design changes and by increasing recycled content in our packaging. Accelerate Action on Climate Change: We are taking steps to accelerate action on climate change through science-based near-term, long-term and Net Zero 2040 emissions targets across our operations and supply chain, which have been approved by The Science Based Targets initiative. To support our target to become Net Zero carbon in our operations by 2040, we have built a global renewable energy master plan which includes roadmaps by division to cover our manufacturing facilities and owned warehouses, global technology centers and offices. Renewable energy agreements are a valuable part of this renewable energy master plan. In 2023, we signed a long-term virtual power purchase agreement for a solar energy farm outside of Waco, Texas, which will be a long-term source of clean, renewable energy in the United States. Upon completion, the solar farm is expected to produce the equivalent of 100% of our U.S.-based operational electricity needs. Lead with Zero Waste Facilities: It is our goal to achieve TRUE certification for zero waste at 100% of our operations, which we define as our manufacturing facilities, owned and operated warehouses, global technology centers and strategic 5 offices, by 2025. In 2023, four more of our sites achieved TRUE certification. That brings the total number of TRUE certified sites to 36 across five continents in 21 countries, as of December 31, 2023. Social Impact: Colgate Bright Smiles, Bright Futures is our flagship oral health education and well-being initiative. Since the program was established in 1991, we have reached approximately 1.7 billion children and their families in more than 100 countries. Through our Hill s Food, Shelter Love program, we have helped over 14 million shelter pets find forever homes since 2002. Additional information about our sustainability targets and efforts, including our 2022 Sustainability and Social Impact Report, our 2023 Climate Transition Net Zero Action Plan and our reports aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) can be found in the Sustainability section of our website at https://www.colgatepalmolive.com/sustainability. References to these reports and our website are for informational purposes only and neither the reports nor the other information on our website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information about our Executive Officers The following is a list of our executive officers as of February 15, 2024: Name Age Date First Elected Executive Officer Present Title Noel R. Wallace 59 2009 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Stanley J. Sutula III 58 2020 Chief Financial Officer Jennifer M. Daniels 60 2014 Chief Legal Officer and Secretary John W. Kooyman 59 2019 Chief of Staff Prabha Parameswaran 65 2019 Group President, Growth and Strategy Panagiotis Tsourapas 59 2019 Group President, Europe and Developing Markets Sally Massey 50 2020 Chief Human Resources Officer Gregory O. Malcolm 56 2022 Executive Vice President and Controller Each of our executive officers listed above has served the Company or our subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years with the exception of Stanley J. Sutula III, Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sutula was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pitney Bowes Inc., which he joined in 2017. Under our By-Laws, our officers hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified or until they have resigned, retired or been removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of our Board. There are no family relationships between any of our executive officers, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected. Available Information Our website address is www.colgatepalmolive.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, interactive data files posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also available on our website are the Company s Code of Conduct and Board Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, the charters of the Committees of the Board, Specialized Disclosure Reports on Form SD, reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in Company stock by directors and executive officers and our Proxy Statements. 6