Item 1. Business 1 Item 1.A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. Reserved 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7.A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 26 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 26 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 27 Item 9.A. Controls and Procedures 27 Item 9.B. Other Information 27 Item 9.C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 27 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 28 Item 11. Executive Compensation 28 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 28 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 28 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 28 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 29 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 32 Signatures 33 Table of Contents PART I This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 (this Report), including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), including, among others, statements related to the expected or potential impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, and the related responses of governments, consumers, customers, suppliers, employees and the Company, on our business, operations, employees, financial condition and results of operations, and any such forward-looking statements, whether concerning the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties. Except for historical information, statements about future volumes, sales, organic sales growth, foreign currencies, costs, cost savings, margins, earnings, earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, foreign currency exchange rates, tax rates, cash flows, plans, objectives, expectations, growth or profitability are forward-looking statements based on management s estimates, beliefs, assumptions and projections. Words such as could, may, expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, will, predicts and variations on such words, and similar expressions that reflect our current views with respect to future events and operational, economic and financial performance, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions, subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Important factors that could affect performance and cause results to differ materially from management s expectations are described in the sections entitled Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Report, as updated from time to time in the Company s U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. The Company s forward-looking statements in this Report are based on management s current views, beliefs, assumptions and expectations regarding future events and speak only as of the date of this Report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by the federal securities laws. In this Report, unless the context requires otherwise, the terms the Company, Clorox, we, us and our refer to The Clorox Company and its subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview of Business The Clorox Company is a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products with fiscal year 2022 net sales of $7.1 billion and about 9,000 employees worldwide as of June 30, 2022. Its products are sold primarily through mass retailers; grocery outlets; warehouse clubs; dollar stores; home hardware centers; drug, pet and military stores; third-party and owned e-commerce channels; and distributors. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and recognized consumer brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products; Pine-Sol cleaners; Liquid-Plumr clog removers; Poett home care products; Fresh Step cat litter; Glad bags and wraps; Kingsford grilling products; Hidden Valley dressings, dips, seasonings and sauces; Brita water-filtration products; Burt s Bees natural personal care products; and RenewLife , Rainbow Light , Natural Vitality and NeoCell vitamins, minerals and supplements. The Company also markets industry-leading products and technologies for professional customers, including those sold under the CloroxPro and Clorox Healthcare brand names. About 80% of the Company s sales are generated from brands that hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The Company was founded in Oakland, California, in 1913 and is incorporated in Delaware. Clorox s IGNITE strategy accelerates innovation in key areas to drive growth and deliver value for both the Company's shareholders and society. Specifically, IGNITE focuses on four strategic choices to sustain long-term, profitable growth: Fuel Growth, Innovate Experiences, Reimagine Work and Evolve Portfolio. Integrated goals for environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance are focused in the areas of Healthy Lives, Clean World and Thriving Communities. Business Performance In fiscal year 2022, the effects of the on-going COVID-19 pandemic continued to cause economic and societal disruptions as well as on-going uncertainties. In addition, supply chain challenges and, more recently, the conflict in Ukraine, contributed to rising cost inflation and ongoing uncertainties in the marketplace. In fiscal year 2022, the Company's net sales decreased 3% and diluted net earnings per share (EPS) decreased 33% as compared to the year-ago period when there was elevated demand for essential household products, especially cleaning and disinfecting products, as a result of COVID-19. Other conditions factoring into the dynamic environment included ongoing uncertainty 1 Table of Contents related to the global pandemic, persistently high manufacturing and logistics costs as well as commodity costs and the conflict in Ukraine, which further exacerbated supply chain challenges. Clorox continued its longtime commitment to providing value to stockholders through regular dividends. During fiscal year 2022, the Company paid $571 million in dividends to stockholders. In July 2022, Clorox announced an increase of 2% in its quarterly dividend. Guided by its IGNITE strategy, the Company remained focused on making significant investments in its strong brands and strategic digital capabilities to drive long-term value creation. These investments were made to support category growth and market share improvements. For example, new products, including Clorox disinfecting mists; Clorox multipurpose cleaner concentrate; Glad ForceFlexPlus trash bags in Cherry Blossom scent; Glad ForceFlex Plus with Clorox trash bags in Eucalyptus and Peppermint scent; Glad compostable drawstring bags (Canada); Glad to Be Green 50% ocean bound plastic recycled trash bags (Australia); Fresh Step Outstretch cat litter; Kingsford Signature Flavors charcoal, pellets and flavor boosters for charcoal and pellet grills; and Neocell collagen powders and gummies, were launched in more than 25 categories in fiscal year 2022. As announced in August 2021, a significant long-term investment in digital capabilities and productivity enhancements will continue to shape the Company s outlook for fiscal year 2023 and beyond. Clorox investing approximately $500 million over five years beginning in fiscal year 2022 on these operating and capital expenditures. This investment includes replacement of the Company's enterprise resource planning system and transitioning to a cloud-based platform as well as the implementation of a suite of other digital technologies. This investment will generate efficiencies and better position Clorox in supply chain, digital commerce, innovation, brand building and more over the long term. In international markets, the Company delivered sales growth in fiscal year 2022 behind ongoing consumer demand for cleaning and disinfecting products, as well as other household essentials including cat litter, bags and wraps and water-filtration products. The Company s international business continues to play an important strategic role, with No. 1 and No. 2 brands in the majority of categories and countries where it operates. Clorox continued to make progress on its ESG goals, which are integrated into the IGNITE strategy and throughout the business. Notably, to advance its Clean World pillar, the Company created an internal roadmap for its net zero and science-based targets, including engaging key business units and activating a plan to engage top suppliers to reduce emissions. Additionally, a second 12-year virtual power purchase agreement was announced, continuing Clorox s commitment to 100% renewable electricity for its U.S. and Canadian operations. Efforts to reduce packaging waste advanced also, including internal initiatives to deliver more recycle-ready materials and address post-consumer recycled content material cost and availability as well as influence ongoing dialogue with the recycling industry through Clorox s membership in the U.S. Plastics Pact. In support of its Thriving Communities pillar, this year the Company launched an environmental justice initiative to provide better access to green spaces for underserved communities. Through the Healthy Parks Project, the foundation plans to invest in community parks in support of the Company's purpose and ESG focus on the interconnectedness of environmental and social sustainability. The Company has been broadly recognized for its corporate responsibility efforts. Those recognitions include the Human Rights Campaign Foundation s Corporate Equality Index 2022 as one of the Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality; the 2022 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, which tracks the performance of public companies committed to transparency in gender-data reporting; and Barron s 100 Most Sustainable U.S. Companies list. In fiscal year 2023, the Company anticipates ongoing challenges that may impact its sales and margins, including continued uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic, persistently high manufacturing and logistics and commodity costs, continued effects from the conflict in Ukraine, evolving consumer behaviors, high levels of competition in select categories, a more competitive and evolving retail environment, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and an uncertain macroeconomic environment in the U.S. and in many international markets. As announced in August 2022, the Company will be implementing a streamlined operating model beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023. As a result, the Company expects to incur restructuring costs, primarily employee-related costs, as well as associated implementation and other costs, together totaling approximately $75 to $100 million during fiscal years 2023 and 2024, with approximately $35 million to be recognized in fiscal year 2023. For additional information on recent business developments, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in Exhibit 99.1, incorporated herein by reference. 2 Table of Contents Financial Information About Operating Segments and Principal Products The Company operates through strategic business units (SBUs) that are also the Company s operating segments. These SBUs are then aggregated into four reportable segments: Health and Wellness, Household, Lifestyle and International. These four reportable segments consist of the following: Health and Wellness consists of cleaning products, professional products and vitamins, minerals and supplements mainly marketed and sold in the U.S. Products within this segment include cleaning products such as laundry additives and home care products, primarily under the Clorox, Clorox2, Scentiva, Pine-Sol, Liquid-Plumr, Tilex and Formula 409 brands; professional cleaning and disinfecting products under the CloroxPro and Clorox Healthcare brands; professional food service products under the Hidden Valley brand; and vitamins, minerals and supplements under the RenewLife, Natural Vitality, NeoCell and Rainbow Light brands. Household consists of bags and wraps, grilling products and cat litter marketed and sold in the U.S. Products within this segment include bags and wraps under the Glad brand; grilling products under the Kingsford brand; and cat litter primarily under the Fresh Step and Scoop Away brands. Lifestyle consists of food, natural personal care products and water-filtration products marketed and sold in the U.S. Products within this segment include dressings, dips, seasonings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley brand; natural personal care products under the Burt s Bees brand; and water-filtration products under the Brita brand. International consists of products sold outside the U.S. Products within this segment include laundry additives; home care products; water-filtration products; digestive health products; grilling products; cat litter; food; bags and wraps; natural personal care products; and professional cleaning and disinfecting products marketed primarily under the Clorox, Ayudin, Clorinda, Poett, Pine-Sol, Glad, Brita, RenewLife, Ever Clean and Burt s Bees brands. The Company s products are marketed and sold globally. The following table provides the Company s global product lines, which were sold in the U.S. (including products sold in the Professional Products SBU) and internationally, that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30: 2022 2021 2020 Cleaning products 42 % 43 % 43 % Bags and wraps 16 % 14 % 15 % Food products 11 % 10 % 10 % Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution In the U.S., most of the Company s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass retailers, grocery outlets, warehouse clubs, dollar stores, home hardware centers, military stores and other retail outlets primarily through a direct sales force; to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers; and through e-commerce retailers. The Company also sells many of its products through alternative retail channels. Some brands are sold using the direct-to-consumer model. The Company sells institutional, janitorial, food-service and healthcare products through a direct sales force and a network of brokers to distributors and redistributors. Outside the U.S., the Company sells products to the retail trade through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements with local partners. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials The Company purchases raw materials from numerous unaffiliated U.S. and international suppliers, some of which are sole source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the delivery of these materials could adversely impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the Company include resin, non-woven fabrics for wipes products, sodium hypochlorite, corrugated cardboard, soybean oil, solvent, derivatives of amines and other chemicals and agricultural commodities. While sufficient raw materials were generally available during fiscal year 2022, supply constraints and commodity costs increases for certain raw materials and finished goods were experienced. This is due to supply chain disruptions combined with increased demand as the economy re-opened as the world moves into a new phase of the pandemic as well as unfavorable geopolitical and weather events experienced. The Company expects continued volatility and increased cost pressures in both commodities and transportation to continue in fiscal year 2023. The Company generally utilizes supply contracts to help ensure availability and a number of forward-purchase contracts to help reduce the volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations. However, the Company is highly exposed to changes in the prices of commodities and transportation used in manufacturing and shipping of its products. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Exhibit 99.1, Risk Factors Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, 3 Table of Contents energy, transportation, labor and other necessary supplies or services have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the Company s net earnings and cash flow and Risk Factors Supply chain issues can result in product shortages or disruptions to the Company s business in Item 1.A. Patents and Trademarks Most of the Company s brand name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks. The Company s brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company vigorously protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity value is critical to the Company s success. The Company s patent rights are also material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent infringements. Seasonality Most sales of the Company s grilling products occur during the months of March through September each calendar year. The volume and sales of grilling products may be affected by weather conditions. Our disinfecting products may be subject to higher levels of seasonality given ongoing pandemic/endemic surges. Customers Net sales to the Company s largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 25% of consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020, and occurred across all of the Company s reportable segments. No other individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company s consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years. The Company s five largest customers accounted for nearly half of the Company s consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020. Competition The markets for consumer products are highly competitive. The Company s products compete with other nationally advertised brands and with private label brands within each category. Competition comes from similar and alternative products, some of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having financial resources greater than those of the Company. In addition, the Company faces competition from retailers, including club stores, grocery stores, drugstores, dollar stores, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and subscription services. Furthermore, heightened competitive activity is expected as inflation continues to increase, consumers experience reduced purchasing power and the Company implements pricing to offset higher costs. The Company s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand reputation and recognition, image and price. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it typically requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product innovation to maintain its relative market position. For further information regarding the intense competition the Company faces, see Risk Factors The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced net sales, net earnings and cash flow in Item 1.A. Environmental Matters For information regarding noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under Risk Factors Environmental matters create potential liabilities that could adversely affect the Company s financial condition and results of operations in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are presently anticipated. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Purpose and Values The Clorox Company is led by our purpose to champion people to be well and thrive every single day from our employees to the consumers and communities we serve around the world. Launched in 2019, the IGNITE strategy accelerates innovation in key areas to drive growth and deliver value through a focus on four strategic choices over the long term: Fuel Growth, Innovate Experiences, Reimagine Work and Evolve Portfolio. Goals for ESG are embedded in IGNITE, and we approach our ESG work through our pillars of Healthy Lives, Clean World and Thriving Communities, all underpinned by strong governance. Our values are the foundation for everything we do and are essential to our success: Do the Right Thing , Put People at the Center , and Play to Win . 4 Table of Contents Employees As of June 30, 2022, the Company employed about 9,000 people worldwide, with 72% in the U.S. and 28% working in our international locations. Our U.S. workforce includes 49% nonproduction employees and 51% production employees, while our international workforce includes 56% nonproduction employees and 44% production employees. Inclusion and Diversity People are critical to our efforts to drive growth and deliver value for shareholders. One of the ways we put people at the center is by continuing to work toward a more inclusive and diverse workplace because we believe diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives create stronger teams, unlock more innovation and ultimately contribute to greater success both individually and collectively. Our Inclusion and Diversity (I D) strategy development and execution is led by our Chief Diversity and Social Impact Officer, who joined the Company in July 2022, is a member of the Clorox Executive Committee and reports to our Chief Executive Officer. Our I D Committee is chaired by our Chief Operating Officer. I D metrics are included in the corporate scorecard regularly reviewed by the board, reflecting our view that advancing I D is essential to our long-term business success. Many employees and task forces across different communities, functions and geographies support this work. We annually conduct pay equity analyses as part of our regular compensation cycle for our non-production teammates, partnering with a third-party labor economist to review potential discrepancies. Our goal is for each employee to be compensated fairly, irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender. Over a dozen employee resource groups (ERGs) reflect the diverse demographics of our workforce and are intended to create a sense of belonging for our employees through community, education and awareness, which helps attract and retain diverse talent and deepen our understanding of our diverse consumer base. We believe that these ERGs also create value for our business by amplifying both employee and consumer voices. In fiscal year 2022, we were included in Forbes 2022 America s Best Employers for Diversity list, ranking eighth out of 500 companies. Clorox was also included in the 2022 Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, which measures gender equality across the pillars of female leadership and talent pipeline, equal pay and gender pay parity, inclusive culture, sexual harassment policies and pro-women brand. Employee diversity . As of June 30, 2022, people of color 1 represented 42% of our total U.S. population of employees, 17% of U.S. senior executives, 32% of U.S. managers, 44% of other U.S. nonproduction employees and 44% of U.S. production employees. Women made up 36% of our global population, 46% of global senior executives, 47% of global managers, 56% of other global nonproduction employees and 19% of global production employees. Board and leadership diversity . Clorox s first female CEO, Linda Rendle, was promoted to lead the Company in September 2020. As of June 30, 2022, the Clorox Executive Committee was composed of 43% women and 14% people of color. Additionally, 46% of our board is female and 31% are people of color, with our Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee (NGCRC) and our Audit Committee chaired by people of color. Our NGCRC chair is also a woman. 1 Management defines people of color (POC) as any race that is not White (Asian; Black; Latino; Native American; Native Hawaiian; or two or more races). Gender and ethnicity information is provided by employees on a voluntary, self-identification basis. To the extent that the employees do not voluntarily report, the data would not be included in the respective calculation. 5 Table of Contents Hiring and Development We look to attract and retain the best talent to deliver against our strategy and commitments. We prioritize career growth and leadership development because growing our talent and building our capabilities supports retention and helps us establish a strong foundation for long-term success. Our investments include a suite of training and education for people managers to help them become effective coaches and leaders, mentoring programs and initiatives to help build a pipeline of diverse talent, our summer internship, co-op and full-time equivalent (FTE) rotational programs for college hires. In addition, we partner with our ERGs and establish partnerships with external organizations that work to advance equity and opportunity for the communities they represent. We also conduct a robust talent review and leader succession planning process to ensure a strong pipeline for key roles. As the pandemic evolves and we move to new ways of working, we have anchored to a set of core beliefs in making decisions: there s value in being together - some of the time; the future of work is hybrid; and the Clorox experience must be good for our people and our business. These beliefs influenced the design of the hybrid work experience we implemented in fiscal year 2022. Employee Engagement and Retention We employ an ongoing listening strategy, which includes both annual and more frequent pulse surveys. We also survey our employees on their engagement to gauge their perception of the Company as a place to work as well as their views of leadership, understanding of our IGNITE strategy, and sense of inclusion. In fiscal year 2022, our employee engagement was 82%, which was in line with the 50 th percentile for Fortune 500 and industry benchmarks 2 . Our engagement score declined by 5% as compared to fiscal year 2021, which is similar to engagement and retention trends across our and other industries. The employee engagement surveys are part of our continuous improvement mindset around building a culture at Clorox that is both engaging and aligned to our purpose, values and IGNITE strategy.Like many companies, we have experienced elevated turnover in fiscal year 2022. In order to retain top talent, we regularly assess retention risk and employee sentiment through the employee engagement survey and other channels and develop and execute related action plans. Employee Safety and Well-Being As a health and wellness company, the Company takes a holistic approach to caring for our employees, with benefits and programs designed to support physical, mental and financial well-being. Our focus on safety is an example of how we put people at the center. We support that pledge through a combination of education, training and related policies, while also operating in compliance with applicable regulations, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines in the U.S. In fiscal year 2022, the Company s reportable incident rate (RIR) was 0.56. This was significantly lower than the 3.1 average RIR for goods-producing manufacturing companies in 2020, which is the latest available data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 3 . Recognizing the prolonged effects of the pandemic, the Company has increasingly focused on supporting our people s mental health. We expanded our sick time policy to explicitly include mental well-being and launched a partnership with a new global Employee Assistance Program partner that enables coverage across all regions. We continue to provide parents with support such as paid parental leave, adoption resources and subsidized childcare, and have announced we will offer enhanced family-forming benefits beginning in January 2023. To support our people s financial well-being, the Company provides competitive compensation including short- and long-term incentives to attract and retain top talent. In addition, we support our employees retirement readiness by offering third-party financial planning services and a 401(k) plan that is above market relative to the industry average, with the Company contributing up to 10% of an employee s annual salary. Societal Well-Being In fiscal year 2022 The Clorox Company Foundation created a signature theme of health security, based on the belief that health and wellness is a basic human right. The foundation now focuses on programs in three areas to address this signature theme: community wellness, disease prevention and disaster relief and preparedness. Using this framework, our foundation further brings our purpose to life as we champion people to be well and thrive every single day. 2 Employee engagement surveys may vary across companies on a year-to-year basis. 3 Our Fiscal year 2022 RIR of 0.56 means that for every 100 full-time equi