Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 22 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2 Properties 30 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6 [Reserved] 33 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8 Comcast Corporation Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 97 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 97 Item 9B Other Information 97 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 97 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 98 Item 11 Executive Compensation 99 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 99 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 99 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 99 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 100 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 103 Signatures 104 Explanatory Note Unless indicated otherwise, throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to Comcast and its consolidated subsidiaries, as Comcast, we, us and our; Comcast Cable Communications, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries as Comcast Cable; Comcast Holdings Corporation as Comcast Holdings; NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. as NBCUniversal Enterprise; NBCUniversal Media, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries as NBCUniversal; and Sky Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries as Sky. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2021. This Annual Report on Form 10-K modifies and supersedes documents filed before it. The SEC allows us to incorporate by reference information that we file with it, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Table of Contents Our registered trademarks include Comcast, NBCUniversal and the Comcast and NBCUniversal logos. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains other trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us, as well as those owned by others. Numerical information in this report is presented on a rounded basis using actual amounts. Minor differences in totals and percentage calculations may exist due to rounding. Table of Contents Part I Item 1: Business We are a global media and technology company with three primary businesses: Comcast Cable, NBCUniversal and Sky. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963. Through transactions in 2011 and 2013, we acquired NBCUniversal, and in 2018, we acquired Sky. We present our operations in five reportable business segments: (1) Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications; (2) NBCUniversal in three reportable business segments: Media, Studios and Theme Parks (collectively, the NBCUniversal segments ); and (3) Sky in one reportable business segment. Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, we changed our presentation of the NBCUniversal segments to reflect a reorganized operating structure in our television and streaming businesses to a more centralized structure to optimize its content creation, distribution and monetization model. We also now include Peacock, our direct-to-consumer streaming service ( DTC streaming service ), within the NBCUniversal segments. NBCUniversal previously reported its operations in four reportable business segments: Broadcast Television, Cable Networks, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks and Peacock was previously reported in Corporate and Other. 2021 Consolidated Operating Results (a) Revenue Adjusted EBITDA (a) Charts exclude the results of NBCUniversal Headquarters and Other, Corporate and Other, and eliminations. 2021 consolidated operating results were impacted by COVID-19. Refer to our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Cable Communications: Consists of the operations of Comcast Cable, which is a leading provider of broadband, video, voice, wireless, and other services to residential customers in the United States under the Xfinity brand; we also provide these and other services to business customers and sell advertising. Media: Consists primarily of NBCUniversal s television and streaming platforms, including national, regional and international cable networks; the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations; and Peacock Studios: Consists prim arily of NBCUniversal s film and television studio production and distribution operations. Theme Parks: Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; Osaka, Japan; and Beijing, China. Sky: Consists of the operations of Sky, one of Europe s leading entertainment companies, which primarily includes a direct-to-consumer business, providing video, broadband, voice and wireless phone services, and a content business, operating entertainment networks, the Sky News broadcast network and Sky Sports networks. Our other business interests consist primarily of the operations of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and other business initiatives. For developments in our business and financial and other information about our reportable business segments, refer to Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 1 Comcast 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Description of Our Businesses Cable Communications Segment Cable Communications offers broadband, video, voice, wireless, and other services in the United States individually and as bundled services at a discounted rate over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers. Revenue is generated primarily from residential and business customers that subscribe to our services and from the sale of advertising. We aim to meet the needs of various segments of our residential customer base by offering multiple levels within each of our stand-alone and bundled services. Our business services offerings are tailored to meet the needs of various segments of our business customer base, ranging from broadband services for small business locations to bundled services and solutions designed to meet the needs of medium-sized customers and larger enterprises. Customer Relationships and the Areas We Serve All customer metrics included in this section are as of December 31, 2021. (in millions) December 31, 2021 Customer relationships Residential customer relationships 31.7 Business services customer relationships 2.5 Total customer relationships 34.2 Homes and businesses passed 61 Total customer relationships penetration of homes and businesses passed 57 % Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our cable distribution system without further extending the transmission lines and are estimated based on the best available information. The map below highlights Cable Communications cable distribution footprint and the designated market areas ( DMAs ) where we have 250,000 or more customer relationships, with bolded locations representing one of the top 25 U.S. television DMAs as of December 31, 2021. Comcast 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K 2 Table of Contents Residential Broad band - 29.6 million customers We offer broadband services over our hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network with downstream speeds up to over a gigabit per second across nearly our entire footprint and fiber-based speeds that range up to 3 gigabits per second, and we continue to evolve and enhance our network and plan to leverage DOCSIS 4.0 technology to begin deploying multigigabit symmetrical speeds in the future. We also offer wireless gateways to customers that combine an internet modem with a Wi-Fi router to deliver reliable internet speeds and enhanced coverage through an in-and-out-of-home Wi-Fi network as well as xFi Pod plug-in devices that extend a customer s in-home Wi-Fi coverage. Customers with wireless gateways may also personalize and manage their Wi-Fi network and connected home, and access advanced security technology and other features, with our xFi whole-home application and online portal. Broadband customers have access to our expanding network of secure residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots nationwide. As part of our low-income broadband adoption program, we also offer qualifying customers our Internet Essentials service, and beginning at the end of 2021 Internet Essential Plus, which have downstream speeds of up to 50 megabits per second and 100 megabits per second, respectively. Broadband customers that prefer consuming content over the internet rather than linear cable television are eligible to receive our Flex streaming device for no additional charge, which includes integrated search functionality and a voice-activated remote control. Flex also provides access to and the integration of streaming content from Peacock s premium tier; certain third-party internet-based apps providing content and music such as DTC streaming services Disney+ and Netflix; and certain pay-per-view and video on demand content available over the internet. We earn commission revenue from the sale of certain third-party DTC streaming services. Video - 17.5 million customers We offer a broad variety of video services, primarily through our X1 platform, which provides integrated search functionality and a voice-activated remote control. The integrated features provided by X1 operate across content in customers cable video services packages and content from internet-based streaming ser vices that customers may access in a manner similar to our Flex streaming device. Our video packages typically range from a basic cable service with access to between 20 and 65 channels to a full service with access to more than 300 channels. Customers may view programming live, record live programming through our dig ital video recorder ( DVR ) service or access our video on demand services with extensive programming choices such as television series, movies and special-events programming that are available for free or to rent or own digitally. These viewing options are also available through our mobile app and online portal. We tailor our video packages based on particular programming preferences, demographics and geographic areas in accordance with applicable local and federal regulatory requirements, with programming generally inclusive of national broadcast networks, local broadcast stations, national and regional cable networks, government and public access programming, and premium channel subscriptions such as HBO and Showtime. We also offer packages with extensive amounts of foreign-language programming and other specialty tiers of programming. Voice - 9.1 million customers We offer voice services using interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) technology that provide either unlimited or usage-based local and domestic long-distance calling, as well as options for international calling plans, voicemail, readable voicemail, nuisance call blocking tools and various other features. Wireless - 4.0 million lines We offer wireless services for handsets, tablets and smart watches using mobile virtual network operator ( MVNO ) rights over Verizon s wireless network, in cluding its 5G technology and our existing network of secure residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots. Wireless services are only offered as part of our bundled service offerings to residential customers that subscribe to our broadband services and to eligible small business customers on similar terms. Customers may activate multiple lines per account and choose to pay for services on an unlimited data plan, shared data plans, or per gigabyte of data used. Customers may either bring their own device or purchase devices from us with the option to pay upfront or finance the purchase interest-free over 24 months. Business Services Business services customers may subscribe to a variety of products and services, including broadband services over our hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network with downstream speeds up to a gigabit per second across nearly our entire footprint and fiber-based speeds that range up to 100 gigabits per second. Our service offerings for small business locations primarily include broadband services, as well as voice and video services, that are similar to those provided to our residential customers, cloud-based cybersecurity services, wireless backup connectivity, advanced Wi-Fi solutions, video monitoring services and cloud- 3 Comcast 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents based services for file sharing, online backup and web conferencing, among other features. We also offer Ethernet network services, which connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options to medium-sized customers and larger enterprises, and advanced voice services, as well as video solutions for hotels and other large venues. In addition, we provide cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help manage their network bandwidth. Our business services offerings for medium-sized and enterprise customers also include a software-defined networking product, and larger enterprises may also receive support services related to Wi-Fi networks, router management, network security, business continuity risks and other services. These services are primarily provided to Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises with multiple locations both within and outside of our cable distribution footprint, where we provide coverage outside of our service areas through agreements with other companies to use their networks. Advertising We generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time that our advertising business sells to local, regional and national advertisers as part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, and we also generate revenue from selling advertising on our digital platforms. Our advertising business also represents the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets and offers additional technology, tools, data-driven services and marketplace solutions to customers in the media industry to facilitate advertisers more effectively engaging with their target audiences. Other Our security and automation services provide home monitoring services and the ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and room temperature, through our online portal, mobile apps and the X1 platform. We also license our technology platforms to other multichannel video providers. Network and Technology Our Cable Communications cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements and enables us to continue to grow capacity and capabilities over time. This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing broadband services, interactive video services such as integrated search functionality, On Demand and DVR, voice services, and security and automation services. Leveraging DOCSIS 3.1 technology, Cable Communications currently deploys broadband services with downstream speeds for residential customers up to over a gigabit per second across nearly our entire footprint. We continue to evolve and enhance our network and plan to leverage DOCSIS 4.0 technology to begin deploying multigigabit symmetrical speeds in the future. Additionally, Cable Communications has been automating many core network functions in order to expand capacity and increase operating efficiency and to identify and fix network issues before they affect our customers. Cable Communications continues to focus on technology initiatives to design, develop and deploy next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as the X1 and Flex platforms and cloud DVR technology that use Internet Protocol ( IP ) technology and our own cloud network servers to deliver video and advanced search capability. These platforms are based on our global technology platform, which integrates linear television networks, certain owned and third-party DTC streaming services and other internet-based apps, and on demand content in one unified experience with voice-activated remote control search and interactive features. Cable Communications also pursues technology initiatives related to broadband services that leverage our global technology platform, providing customers with in-and-out-of-home Wi-Fi, the ability to manage their Wi-Fi network and connected home with our xFi whole-home application and online portal, advanced security technology and other features. Sources of Supply and Other Operations To offer video services, Cable Communications licenses substantial amounts of programming from cable and broadcast networks, as well as from local broadcast television stations. The fees associated with these programming distribution agreements are generally based on the number of subscribers who are able to watch the programming and the platforms on which the content is provided. We seek to include in distribution agreements the rights to offer such programming through multiple delivery platforms, such as through our On Demand service, online portal, mobile apps and Flex. For wireless services, we have an MVNO agreement that allows us to offer services using Verizon s wireless network and we purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of wireless handsets, tablets and smart watches that we sell to wireless customers. Cable Communications purchases from a limited number of suppliers a significant amount of customer premise equipment, including wireless gateways and set-top boxes, network equipment and services to provide services to residential and business customers. Cable Communications uses two primary vendors to provide customer billing for our residential and business customers. Comcast 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K 4 Table of Contents Cable Communications offers services directly to residential and business customers through customer service teams, retail stores, customer service centers, websites, door-to-door selling, telemarketing and third-party outlets, as well as through advertising via direct mail, television and the internet. Our customer service teams also provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other servic es. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our cable distribution system. Customers can use self-service help and support and perform self-installations for certain services. Competition Competition for Cable Communications services consists primarily of telecommunications companies with fiber-based networks, DTC streaming and other over-the-top ( OTT ) service providers and direct broadcast satellite ( DBS ) providers that typically offer features, pricing and packaging for services comparable to ours. Residential Broadband Cable Communications competes with a number of companies offering internet services, including: wireline telecommunications companies wireless telecommunications companies municipal broadband networks and power companies satellite broadband providers Certain wireline telecommunications companies such as AT T, Frontier, Lumen and Verizon have built and are continuing to build fiber-based network infrastructure farther into their networks, which allows them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be provided with traditional DSL technology, and are offering services with these higher speeds in many of our service areas. Certain companies that offer DSL service have increased data transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled services to compete with our broadband services. Certain companies have launched fiber-to-the-home networks that provide broadband services in certain areas in which we operate, and certain municipalities in our service areas are also building fiber-based networks. Various wireless companies are offering internet services using a variety of technologies, including 4G and 5G, wireless broadband and Wi-Fi networks. These networks work with devices such as smartphones, laptops, tablets, and mobile and fixed wireless routers, as well as wireless data cards. Moreover, broadband-deployment funding initiatives at the federal and state level, including as part of COVID-19 relief efforts as well as federal infrastructure legislation enacted in 2021, may result in other service providers deploying new subsidized internet access networks within our footprint. The availability of these and other offerings could negatively impact the demand for our broadband services. Video Cable Communications competes with a number of different sources in the United States that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including: DTC streaming and other OTT service providers including: subscription-based services, such as Disney+ and Netflix, that offer online services that enable internet streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming virtual multichannel video providers, such as Hulu + Live TV and YouTube TV, that offer streamed linear programming networks DBS providers, including DIRECTV and DISH Network, that transmit satellite signals to substantially all U.S. households to provide video programming and other information similar to our video services companies, including AT T and Verizon, that have built and continue to build fiber-based networks that provide video services similar to our s, overlap a substantial portion of our service areas, and in some cases provide bundled offerings that include wireless phone services other providers that build and operate communications systems and services in the same areas that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable operators other companies, such as local broadcast television stations, that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming 5 Comcast 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Many of these competitors also have significant financial resources. Voice Cable Communications competes with wireless and wireline telecommunications providers, including incumbent local exchange carriers ( ILECs ) and competitive local exchange carriers ( CLECs ), and other internet-based and VoIP service providers. Certain wireless and wireline telecommunications providers, such as the ILECs AT T and Verizon, have longstanding customer relationships, and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources. In addition, we are increasingly competing with other telecommunications service providers as customers replace traditional wireline phone services with wireless and internet-based phone services. Wireless Cable Communications competes with national wireless service providers in the United States, including AT T, T-Mobile and Verizon, which offer wireless service on both a stand-alone basis or along with other services as bundled offerings, as well as regional wireless service providers. Business Services Cable Communications primarily competes with a variety of wireline telecommunications companies, including ILECs and CLECs, and wide area network managed service providers. These companies either operate their own network infrastructure or use all or part of another carrier s network. We also compete with satellite operators who offer video services to businesses and VoIP companies that target businesses of all sizes. Advertising Cable Communications competes for the sale of advertising with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advert ising platforms, such as digital, radio and print media. Similar to the competitive environment in our Media segment, the willingness of advertisers to purchase advertising from us may be adversely affected by declines in audience ratings and television viewership and difficulty in measuring fragmented audiences. Cable Communications advertising is sold to local, regional and national advertisers, and competition is affected by the market conditions in the specific geographies in which we operate. NBCUniversal Segments NBCUniversal is one of the world s leading media and entertainment companies that develops, produces and distributes entertainment, news and information, sports, and other content for global audiences, and owns and operates theme parks in the United States and Asia. Media Segment NBCUniversal s television and streaming platforms primarily comprise our Media segment, including: National, regional and international cable networks NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations Peacock, our DTC streaming service NBCUniversal distributes a wide variety of content to appeal to consumers with varying preferences across demographics and geographies through our portfolio of television networks and streaming platforms. This content includes programming owned by NBCUniversal and by third parties who license it to us for distribution. Media segm ent revenue is primarily generated from the sale of advertising on our television networks, Peacock and digital properties, and from the distribution of our television and streaming platform programming. Our advertising sales are affected by the prices we charge for each advertising unit, which are generally based on the size and demographics of our viewing audiences, audience ratings on our television networks, the number of advertising units we can place in our programming and on our digital properties, and our ability to sell our advertising across our platforms. We market and distribute cable network programming in the United States and internationally to multichannel video providers, including b oth traditional providers of linear programming and virtual providers who provide streaming services for linear programming. We also receive fees from multichannel video providers under NBC and Telemundo retransmission consent agreements and associated fees from NBC-affiliated and Telemundo-affiliated local broadcast television stations. Our programming distribution agreements are generally multiyear agreements with revenue based on the number of subscribers Comcast 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K 6 Table of Contents receiving the programming and the fees charged per subscriber. Certain Peacock subscribers are also charged a monthly subscription fee. Media generates other revenue from content licensing and from various digital properties. Cable Networks We operate a diversified portfolio of cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content. The table below presents a summary of NBCUniversal s national cable networks and their advertising reach to U.S. households. Cable Network Approximate U.S. Households as of December 31, 2021 (in millions) (a) Description of Programming USA Network 80 General entertainment and sports E! 79 Entertainment and pop culture Syfy 79 Imagination-based entertainment Bravo 79 Entertainment, culture and arts MSNBC 79 News, political commentary and information CNBC 78 Business and financial news Oxygen 70 Crime, mystery and suspense for women Golf Channel 66 Golf competition and golf entertainment Universal Kids 53 Children s entertainment The Olympic Channel 47 Olympic sports events and Olympic-themed original content Universo 37 Spanish language entertainment CNBC World 29 Global financial news (a) Household data is based on information from The Nielsen Company as of December 31, 2021 using its Cable Coverage Universe Estimates report and dynamic ad insertion est imates. The Nielsen estimates include subscribers to both traditional and certain virtual multichannel video providers. The Nielsen estimates are not based on information provided by us and are included solely to enable comparisons between our cable networks and those operated by our peers. Information presented excludes approximately 79 million households receiving the NBC Sports Network as of December 31, 2021, which ceased operations in January 2022. Our regional sports and news networks together serve more than 21 million households across the United States, including in markets such as Baltimore/Washington, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Sacramento and San Francisco. Broadcast NBC The NBC network features original entertainment, news and sports programming that reaches viewers in virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including our 11 owned NBC local broadcast television stations. The NBC owned local broadcast stations include stations in 8 of the top 10 general markets and collectively reached approximately 35 million U.S. television households as of December 31, 2021, representing approximately 28% of U.S. television households. In addition to broadcasting the NBC network s national p