Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 20 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2 Properties 27 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 31 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8 Comcast Corporation Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 108 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 108 Item 9B Other Information 109 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 110 Item 11 Executive Compensation 111 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 111 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 111 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 112 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 113 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 120 Signatures 121 NBCUniversal Media, LLC Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 123 Explanatory Note This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report being filed separately by Comcast Corporation ( Comcast ) and NBCUniversal Media, LLC ( NBCUniversal ). Comcast owns all of the common equity interests in NBCUniversal, and NBCUniversal meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a), (b) and (d) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing its information within this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format. Each of Comcast and NBCUniversal is filing on its own behalf the information contained in this report that relates to itself, and neither company makes any representation as to information relating to the other company. Where information or an explanation is provided that is substantially the same for each company, such information or explanation has been combined in this report. Where information or an explanation is not substantially the same for each company, separate information and explanation has been provided. In addition, separate consolidated financial statements for each company, along with notes to the consolidated financial statements, are included in this report. Table of Contents Unless indicated otherwise, throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to Comcast and its consolidated subsidiaries, including NBCUniversal and its consolidated subsidiaries as we, us and our; Comcast Cable Communications, LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries as Comcast Cable; Comcast Holdings Corporation as Comcast Holdings; NBCUniversal, LLC as NBCUniversal Holdings; NBCUniversal Enterprise, Inc. as NBCUniversal Enterprise; and Sky Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries as Sky. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2019 . This Annual Report on Form 10-K modifies and supersedes documents filed before it. The Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows us to incorporate by reference information that we file with it, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our registered trademarks include Comcast, NBCUniversal and the Comcast and NBCUniversal logos. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains other trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us, as well as those owned by others. Table of Contents Part I Item 1: Business We are a global media and technology company with three primary businesses: Comcast Cable, NBCUniversal and Sky. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963. Through transactions in 2011 and 2013, we acquired NBCUniversal, and in the fourth quarter of 2018, we acquired Sky. We present our operations for (1) Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications; (2) NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments: Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks (collectively, the NBCUniversal segments ); and (3) Sky in one reportable business segment. Cable Communications: Consists of the operations of Comcast Cable, which is a leading provider of high-speed internet, video, voice, wireless, and security and automation services to residential customers in the United States under the Xfinity brand; we also provide these and other services to business customers and sell advertising . Cable Networks: Consists primarily of our national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content; our regional sports and news networks; our international cable networks; our cable television studio production operations; and various digital properties. Broadcast Television: Consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, our broadcast television studio production operations, and various digital properties. Filmed Entertainment: Consists primarily of the operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide; our films are also produced under the Illumination, DreamWorks Animation and Focus Features names. Theme Parks: Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida; Hollywood, California; and Osaka, Japan. In addition, we are developing a theme park in Beijing, China along with a consortium of Chinese state-owned companies, and an additional theme park in Orlando, Florida. Sky: Consists of the operations of Sky, one of Europe s leading entertainment companies, which primarily includes a direct-to-consumer business, providing video, high-speed internet, voice and wireless phone services, and a content business, operating entertainment networks, the Sky News broadcast network and Sky Sports networks . Our other business interests consist primarily of the operations of Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and other business initiatives, such as the development of Peacock, our direct-to-consumer streaming service that will feature NBCUniversal content. For financial and other information about our reportable business segments, refer to Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to each of Comcast s and NBCUniversal s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information and Websites Comcast s phone number is (215) 286-1700, and its principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. NBCUniversal s phone number is (212) 664-4444, and its principal executive offices are located at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NY 10112-0015. Comcast and NBCUniversal s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), are available free of charge on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov and on Comcast s website at www.comcastcorporation.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our websites is not incorporated into our SEC filings. Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K 1 Table of Contents Description of Our Businesses Cable Communications Segment Cable Communications offers high-speed internet, video, voice, wireless, and security and automation services in the United States individually and as bundled services at a discounted rate over its cable distribution system to residential and business customers. Revenue is generated primarily from residential and business customers that subscribe to our services, which are marketed individually and as bundled services, and from the sale of advertising. Bundled service offerings aim to meet the needs of various segments of our customer base, ranging from high-speed internet services packaged with video or streaming services that include a limited number of channels, to a five-product bundle, consisting of high-speed internet, video, voice, wireless, and security and automation services. Subscription rates and related charges vary according to the services and features customers receive and the types of equipment they use, and customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis. A portion of our residential customers are subject to minimum-term contracts for their cable services, which are typically 1 to 2 years in length. Substantially all business customers are initially under minimum-term contracts, which typically range from 2 to 5 years. Customers with minimum-term contracts may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their contracts. As of December 31, 2019 , Cable Communications had 31.5 million total customer relationships, including 29.1 million residential customer relationships and 2.4 million business customer relationships, and passed more than 58 million homes and businesses. Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our cable distribution system without further extending the transmission lines and are estimated based on the best available information. As of December 31, 2019 , total customer relationships penetration of homes and businesses passed was 54%. The Areas We Serve The map below highlights Cable Communications cable distribution footprint as of December 31, 2019 and the designated market areas ( DMAs ) where we have 250,000 or more customer relationships, with the locations that are bolded representing one of the top 25 U.S. television DMAs as of December 31, 2019 . 2 Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents High-Speed Internet Cable Communications offers high-speed internet services with downstream speeds that range up to 1 gigabit per second ( Gbps ) and fiber-based speeds that range up to 2 Gbps. These services include access to an online portal and mobile apps, which provide users with the ability to manage their home Wi-Fi network, email, an address book, calendars and online security features. Throughout its footprint, Cable Communications deploys wireless gateways to customers that combine an internet and voice modem with a Wi-Fi router to deliver reliable internet speeds and enhanced coverage through an in-and-out-of-home Wi-Fi network . Customers with wireless gateways may also personalize and manage their Wi-Fi network remotely with the xFi branded whole-home application and online portal, which includes viewing and changing their Wi-Fi password, identifying which devices are connected to their in-home network, setting parental controls and schedules, advanced security, and other features. Cable Communications continues to expand its network of residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots. Certain high-speed internet customers who do not subscribe to our video services also receive Flex, a streaming device with access to various programming and other third-party internet apps on their television. As of December 31, 2019 , 26.4 million residential customers subscribed to our high-speed internet services. Video Cable Communications offers a broad variety of video services, primarily through our X1 platform, an Internet Protocol ( IP ) and cloud-enabled video platform. Video customers have access to hundreds of channels depending on the level of service, which typically range from limited basic service with access to between 20 and 60 channels to full service with access to more than 300 channels. Video services generally include programming provided by national broadcast networks, local broadcast stations, and national and regional cable networks, as well as government and public access programming. Our video services also include access to video on demand services ( On Demand ) and an interactive, on-screen program guide. Our On Demand service provides video customers with access to hundreds of thousands of programming choices included in our library. Other content, primarily movies and special-events programming, such as sporting events and concerts, can be rented or in some cases purchased to own digitally. Customers also receive high-definition ( HD ) video service that provides high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format through an HD set-top box, and a broad selection of HD programming choices. Customers also have the option to subscribe to additional services, including a digital video recorder ( DVR ) service that allows customers to record and store programs and play them at their convenience, including online and through our mobile app, and to pause and rewind live television. Additionally, customers may subscribe to premium networks that generally provide, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and pre-recorded sporting events and concerts, and other features. We also offer video service packages that include extensive amounts of foreign-language programming and other specialty tiers of programming. We tailor our video services for particular programming preferences, demographics and geographic areas in accordance with applicable local and federal regulatory requirements. Through the X1 platform, customers have integrated search functionality, including the use of a voice-activated remote control, personalized recommendations and access to, and integration of, certain third-party internet apps, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and YouTube. Additionally, a variety of music apps such as Pandora are offered through X1. Customers have access to their video services through the Stream mobile app and an online portal that allow them to view certain live programming and On Demand content and to browse program listings. Additionally, Cable Communications offers a streaming video service throughout our footprint that allows high-speed internet customers to purchase video services and stream live programming to a computer, tablet, smartphone or other device for a monthly fee. As of December 31, 2019 , 20.3 million residential customers subscribed to our video services. Voice Cable Communications offers voice services using interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) technology. The services provide either unlimited or usage-based local and domestic long-distance calling and include options for international calling plans, voicemail, voicemail transcriptions, text messaging and various call features such as caller ID and call waiting. For customers with high-speed internet services, voice services also include the ability to access and manage voicemail, text messaging and other account features through an online portal or mobile apps. As of December 31, 2019 , 9.9 million residential customers subscribed to our voice services. Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K 3 Table of Contents Wireless Cable Communications offers wireless phone services using mobile virtual network operator ( MVNO ) rights to provide the services over Verizon s wireless network and our existing network of in-home and outdoor Wi-Fi hotspots. The services are currently offered only as part of our bundled service offerings to residential customers that subscribe to high-speed internet service within our cable distribution footprint and may in the future also be offered to small business customers on similar terms. Customers may choose to pay for services on an unlimited data plan or per gigabyte of data used. Customers have the ability to bring their own device or purchase handsets with the option to pay upfront or finance the purchase interest-free over 24 months. As of December 31, 2019 , there were 2.1 million activated wireless lines that were subscribed to our wireless services. Individual customer relationships may have multiple lines. Business Services Cable Communications offers a variety of products and services to businesses. High-speed internet services provide downstream speeds that range up to 1 Gbps and fiber-based speeds that range up to 10 Gbps. Our service offerings for small business locations primarily include high-speed internet services, as well as voice and video services, that are similar to those provided to residential customers, as well as cloud-based cybersecurity services, wireless backup connectivity, advanced Wi-Fi solutions, video monitoring services and cloud-based services that provide file sharing, online backup and web conferencing, among other features. We also offer Ethernet network services that connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options to medium-sized customers and larger enterprises, as well as advanced voice services, along with video solutions that serve hotels and other large venues. In addition, we provide cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help them manage their network bandwidth. Cable Communications has expanded its service offerings to include a software-defined networking product for medium-sized and enterprise customers. Larger enterprises may also receive support services related to Wi-Fi networks, router management, network security, business continuity risks and other services. These service offerings are primarily provided to Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises with multiple locations both within and outside of Cable Communications cable distribution footprint, where we have agreements with other companies to use their networks to provide coverage outside of our service areas. Advertising As part of Cable Communications distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time that is sold through our advertising business to local, regional and national advertisers. In most cases, the available advertising units are sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising units allocated to us. Cable Communications also represents the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets. In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising on our digital platforms. We also provide technology, tools, data-driven services and marketplace solutions to customers in the media industry, which allow advertisers to more effectively engage with their target audiences. Other Cable Communications offers security and automation services that provide home monitoring services and the ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and room temperature, through our online portal, mobile apps or the X1 platform. We also license our technology platforms to other multichannel video providers. As of December 31, 2019 , 1.4 million residential customers subscribed to our security and automation services. Technology Cable Communications cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements. This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing high-speed internet services, interactive video services such as On Demand, voice services, and security and automation services. Cable Communications continues to focus on technology initiatives to design, develop and deploy next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as the X1 platform and related cloud DVR technology, and Flex, which use IP technology and our own cloud network servers to deliver video and advanced search capabilities, including through a voice-activated remote control, and that provide access to certain third-party internet apps. Cable Communications continues to deploy 1 Gbps high-speed internet services that leverage DOCSIS 3.1 technology across its footprint and will continue to expand the capacity of its DOCSIS 3.1 infrastructure, including the implementation of DOCSIS FDX that will enable multi-gigabit services to be launched through our hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network. 4 Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Sources of Supply Cable Communications licenses software products for our high-speed internet services, such as email and security software, and content, such as news feeds for its online portal, from a variety of suppliers. Under these contracts with these suppliers, we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share basis in the case of content licenses. To offer video services, Cable Communications licenses a substantial portion of programming from cable and broadcast networks, as well as from local broadcast television stations. We attempt to secure long-term programming distribution agreements with these programming providers. The fees associated with these programming distribution agreements are generally based on the number of subscribers who are able to watch the programming and the platforms on which the content is provided. We seek to include in distribution agreements the rights to offer such programming through multiple delivery platforms, such as through our On Demand service, online portal, mobile apps and streaming services. For voice services, software products such as voicemail and text messaging are licensed from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts. The fees paid are generally based on the consumption of the related services. For wireless services, we have an MVNO agreement that allows us to offer services using Verizon s wireless network. Cable Communications purchases from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes and certain other customer premise equipment, network equipment and services to provide services to residential and business customers. Cable Communications uses two primary vendors to provide customer billing for our residential and business customers. Customer and Technical Services Cable Communications customer service call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to its cable distribution system. Sales and Marketing Cable Communications offers services directly to residential and business customers through its customer service call centers, retail stores, customer service centers, websites, door-to-door selling, telemarketing, and third-party outlets, as well as through advertising via direct mail, television and the internet. Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K 5 Table of Contents NBCUniversal Segments NBCUniversal is one of the world s leading media and entertainment companies that develops, produces and distributes entertainment, news and information, sports, and other content for global audiences, and owns and operates theme parks worldwide. Cable Networks Cable Networks consists of a diversified portfolio of national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content; regional sports and news networks; international cable networks and cable television studio production operations. It also owns various digital properties, which include brand-aligned websites. The table below presents a summary of NBCUniversal s national cable networks and their advertising reach to U.S. households. Cable Network Approximate U.S. Households as of December 31, 2019 (in millions) (a) Description of Programming USA Network 87 General entertainment E! 84 Entertainment and pop culture Syfy 84 Imagination-based entertainment Bravo 84 Entertainment, culture and arts MSNBC 83 News, political commentary and information CNBC 82 Business and financial news NBC Sports Network 80 Sports Oxygen 70 Crime, mystery and suspense for women Golf Channel 68 Golf competition and golf entertainment Universal Kids 54 Children s entertainment The Olympic Channel 34 Olympic sports events and Olympic-themed original content CNBC World 28 Global financial reviews (a) Household data is based on The Nielsen Company s December 2019 Household Universe Estimate report, except for the Olympic Channel, which is derived from information provided by SNL Kagan. The Nielsen report includes estimates based on subscribers to both traditional and certain virtual multichannel video providers. The Nielsen report is not based on information provided by us and is included solely to permit comparisons between our cable networks and those operated by our peers. Our regional sports and news networks together serve more than 26 million households across the United States, including in markets such as Baltimore/Washington, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland, Sacramento and San Francisco. Revenue is generated primarily from the distribution and licensing of programming and from the sale of advertising on our networks and digital properties. We market and distribute cable network programming in the United States and internationally to multichannel video providers, including both traditional providers of linear programming and virtual providers who provide streaming services for linear programming. We also market and distribute cable network programming to subscription video on demand services, such as those offered by Amazon, Hulu and Netflix. These distributors may provide the content on television, including via video on demand services, online and through mobile apps. Cable Networks produces owned programs or acquires the rights to programming from third parties, including sports programming rights that are discussed below under the heading Broadcast Television. NBCUniversal s cable television studio production operations identify, develop and produce original content for our own cable networks and third parties. We license owned content to cable and broadcast networks and subscription video on demand services. We also sell owned content on standard-definition DVDs and Blu-ray discs (together, DVDs ) and through digital distribution services such as iTunes. We anticipate that our cable television studio production operations will also produce content for and license content to Peacock. Broadcast Television Broadcast Television operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, which together reach viewers and advertisers in all 50 states, as well as our owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast television stations, the NBC Universo national cable network, broadcast television studio production operations, and various digital properties, which primarily include brand-aligned websites. Revenue is generated primarily from the sale of advertising on our networks and digital properties, from the licensing of programming, and from the fees received under retransmission consent agreements and associated fees received from NBC-affiliated and Telemundo-affiliated local broadcast television stations. 6 Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents NBC Network The NBC network distributes entertainment, news and sports programming that reaches viewers in virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including NBCUniversal s 11 owned NBC-affiliated local broadcast television stations. The NBC network s programming library consists of rights of varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles, unscripted programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming, and locally produced programming from around the world. The NBC network produces owned programs or acquires the rights to programming from third parties. NBCUniversal has various contractual commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, primarily sports programming. The most significant sports programming commitments include the U.S. broadcast rights for the summer and winter Olympic Games through 2032 and agreements with the NFL to produce and broadcast a specified number of regular season and playoff games, including Sunday Night Football through the 2022-23 season and the Super Bowl in 2022. We also have U.S. broadcast rights to a specified number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season, English Premier League soccer through the 2021-22 season, certain NASCAR events through 2024 and certain PGA TOUR and other golf events through 2030. NBCUniversal s sports programming agreements also include the rights to distribute content on our national cable networks, including the NBC Sports Network and Golf Channel, and regional sports networks, and online, including through mobile apps. The broadcast television studio production operations develop and produce original content, including scripted and unscripted programming series and talk shows. This original content is licensed to broadcast networks, cable networks and local broadcast television stations owned by NBCUniversal and third parties, as well as to subscription video on demand services, and it is sold on DVDs and through digital distribution services both in the United States and internationally. The broadcast television studio production operations also produce first-run syndicated shows for local markets that are broadcast on local broadcast television s