Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 20 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C C ybersecurity 28 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6 [Reserved] 31 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8 Comcast Corporation Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 92 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 92 Item 9B Other Information 92 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 92 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11 Executive Compensation 93 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 94 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 94 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 94 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 95 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 98 Signatures 99 Explanatory Note This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for the year ended December 31, 2023. This Annual Report on Form 10-K modifies and supersedes documents filed before it. The U.S Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) allows us to incorporate by reference information that we file with it, which means that we can disclose important information to you by referring you directly to those documents. Information incorporated by reference is considered to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless indicated otherwise, throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to Comcast and its consolidated subsidiaries, as Comcast, we, us and our. Table of Contents This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us, as well as those owned by others. Numerical information in this report is presented on a rounded basis using actual amounts. Minor differences in totals and percentage calculations may exist due to rounding. Table of Contents Part I Item 1: Business We are a global media and technology company that reaches customers, viewers and guests worldwide through the connectivity and platforms services we provide and the content and experiences we create. We deliver broadband, wireless, video and voice services primarily under the Xfinity, Comcast Business and Sky brands; produce, distribute and stream leading entertainment, sports and news through brands including NBC, Telemundo, Universal, Peacock and Sky; and own and operate Universal theme parks. We operate two primary businesses: Connectivity Platforms: Contains our broadband, wireless, video and wireline voice businesses in the United States, United Kingdom and Italy (collectively, the Connectivity Platforms markets ). Also includes the operations of our Sky-branded entertainment television networks in the United Kingdom and Italy. Our Connectivity Platforms business is reported in two segments, Residential Connectivity Platforms and Business Services Connectivity. Content Experiences: Contains our media and entertainment businesses that produce and distribute entertainment, sports, news and other content for global audiences and that own and operate theme parks and attractions in the United States and Asia. Our Content Experiences business is reported in three segments, Media, Studios and Theme Parks. For additional information on our businesses and segments, including our segment change in the first quarter of 2023, refer to Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Description of Our Businesses Connectivity Platforms Business Residential Connectivity Platforms Segment Our Residential Connectivity Platforms segment primarily includes: Residential broadband and wireless services (collectively, Residential Connectivity ) Residential and business video services, Sky-branded entertainment television networks and advertising We offer services to customers individually and as bundled services at a discounted rate. Residential Connectivity Broadband We offer broadband services in the United States over our hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial ( HFC ) network, as well as through direct fiber-to-the-premises connections for certain customers, and internationally in the United Kingdom and Italy by leveraging networks owned by third-party telecommunications providers. Our domestic broadband services have a range of service levels that include downstream speeds up to 1.2 gigabits per second across nearly our entire footprint on our HFC network. In connection with a multiyear network transformation plan, in 2022 we began rolling out downstream speeds of up to 2 gigabits per second, which are now available to approximately a third of our footprint on our HFC network, and in 2023, we began deploying DOCSIS 4.0 in select markets. DOCSIS 4.0 enables us to deliver multigigabit symmetrical broadband speeds (i.e., comparable upstream and downstream speeds) to our domestic customers. We also deploy fiber-to-the-premises, with symmetrical speed offerings ranging up to 10 gigabits per second to customers who request that service, subject to local construction constraints. As part of our low-income broadband adoption program, we offer qualifying domestic customers high-speed broadband services at discounted rates through our Internet Essentials and Internet Essentials Plus services, with downstream speeds of up to 50 and 100 megabits per second, respectively. We also offer a separate service providing monthly access to our expanding network of secure Wi-Fi hotspots. 1 Comcast 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents The map below highlights our domestic HFC network footprint and the markets where we had 250,000 or more domestic residential broadband customers as of December 31, 2023. Our international broadband services primarily include fiber-to-the-cabinet offerings, and increasingly fiber-to-the-premises offerings. As part of our domestic and international broadband services, we offer our advanced, proprietary wireless gateways to customers that combine an internet modem with a Wi-Fi router to deliver reliable internet speeds and enhanced coverage through an in-and-out-of-home Wi-Fi network. In addition, customers may personalize and manage their Wi-Fi network and connected home with our mobile apps and online portal. Broadband customers have access to our expanding network of secure Wi-Fi hotspots. We also offer Xumo Stream Box (formerly Flex) devices to our domestic broadband customers, which enable customers to consume content over the internet rather than via linear television. The Xumo Stream Box includes integrated search functionality and a voice-activated remote control. The Xumo Stream Box also provides access to and integration of streaming content and music from certain internet-based apps, including direct-to-consumer streaming services ( DTC streaming services ) such as Peacock and third-party services Disney+ and Netflix, and certain pay-per-view and video on demand programming available over the internet. We earn commission revenue from the sale of certain DTC streaming services through the Xumo Stream Box and our other video platforms. Wireless We offer wireless services for wireless handsets, tablets and smart watches ( wireless devices ) to residential customers in the United States and the United Kingdom using mobile virtual network operator ( MVNO ) rights. Our domestic wireless services are offered over Verizon s wireless network and our existing network of secure residential, outdoor and business Wi-Fi hotspots, and are offered initially only as part of our bundled service offerings to customers that subscribe to our broadband services. Our wireless services in the United Kingdom are offered primarily using an arrangement to access network assets from Virgin Media O2. Wireless customers may activate multiple lines per account. Domestic customers may choose to pay for services on an unlimited data plan, on shared data plans or per gigabyte of data used, and international customers may choose to pay for services on various gigabyte plans. Customers may either bring their own device or purchase devices from us with the option to pay upfront or finance the purchase interest-free over 24 months for domestic customers and over 24 to 48 months for international customers. Comcast 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K 2 Table of Contents Video We offer video services to residential and business customers primarily through our X1 platform in the United States over our HFC network, and through our Sky Q platform internationally in the United Kingdom and Italy using a combination of satellite transmission and broadband connections. X1 and Sky Q are cloud-based platforms that provide integrated search functionality leveraging set-top boxes and a voice-activated remote control. The integrated features operate across content in customers video service packages and content from internet-based streaming services that customers may access in a manner similar to our Xumo Stream Box. We offer a range of video packages from basic linear service to full linear service, which typically include free-to-air networks and a range of other linear television networks including premium, sports and news networks. Our international video packages also include Sky-branded entertainment television networks that offer entertainment, premium movie and free-to-air programming, as well as Sky Sports networks that are part of our Media segment. Customers may also subscribe to digital video recorder ( DVR ) services or access our video on demand services with programming that is available for no additional cost or to rent or buy digitally. These viewing options are also available through our mobile apps and online portals. We also offer DTC streaming services marketed using the NOW brand, with an offering in the United States that launched in 2023. NOW services provide video content over the internet and do not require a set-top box. Our international NOW service offerings include packages for monthly access to entertainment, sports and movies programming, as well as daily pass options for sports programming. Our domestic NOW TV service is only offered to residential broadband customers and includes monthly access to a variety of linear television networks; entertainment and movie programming; integrated access to free streaming channels from Xumo Play, NBC and Sky; and access to the ad-supported tier of Peacock. We also offer video services in the United Kingdom and Italy over a broadband connection without the need for a satellite dish. These services have an operating system similar to Sky Q and are offered to customers that purchase our Sky Glass smart televisions or through Sky Stream, which leverages a streaming device and Wi-Fi. Advertising We generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time as part of our distribution agreements with domestic cable networks that our advertising business sells, and we also sell advertising on our Sky-branded entertainment television networks, on our digital platforms, and where we represent the advertising sales efforts of third parties both domestically and internationally. Additionally, we offer technology, tools, data-driven services and marketplace solutions to customers in the media industry to facilitate effective engagement of advertisers with their target audiences. Other We offer residential wireline voice services primarily using interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) technology, and we offer residential security and automation services. We also license our technology platforms to other multichannel video providers and distribute certain of our Sky-branded entertainment television networks to third-party video service providers. Business Services Connectivity Segment Our Business Services Connectivity segment consists of our service offerings for small business locations in the United States, which include broadband, wireline voice and wireless services, as well as our service offerings for medium-sized customers and larger enterprises. Certain business customers subscribe to our video services, and the associated revenue is included in our Residential Connectivity Platforms segment. We offer broadband services primarily over our HFC network with a range of service levels that include downstream speeds up to 1.25 gigabits per second, as well as fiber-based services that deliver symmetrical speeds ranging up to 100 gigabits per second. We have also launched small business connectivity service offerings in the United Kingdom. Our small business broadband, wireline voice and wireless service offerings are similar to those provided to our residential customers and additionally include cloud-based cybersecurity services, wireless backup connectivity, advanced Wi-Fi solutions, video monitoring services and other cl oud-based services. Our medium- sized and enterprise customer offerings also include ethernet network services, which connect multiple locations and provide higher downstream and upstream speed options, advanced voice services, and a software-defined networking product. Our larger enterprises may also receive support services related to Wi-Fi networks, router management, network security, business continuity risks and other services. These services are primarily provided to Fortune 1000 companies and other large enterprises with multiple locations both within and outside of our distribution footprint, where we provide coverage outside of our service areas through agreements with other companies to use their networks. 3 Comcast 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Network and Technology The segments within our Connectivity Platforms business use our HFC network in the United States, which we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements and enables us to continue to grow capacity and capabilities over time. This network provides the two-way transmissions required to provide connectivity services and interactive video and entertainment services through our platforms, and consists primarily of headends, coaxial and fiber-optic cables owned or leased by us, and equipment such as lasers, routers, switches and content distribution servers. Across nearly our entire domestic footprint, we currently leverage DOCSIS 3.1 to offer downstream broadband speeds up to over a gigabit per second to residential and business customers. We also deploy fiber-to-the-premises, with symmetrical speed offerings ranging up to 10 gigabits per second to customers who request that service, subject to local construction constraints. We offer domestic wireless services using an MVNO agreement that allows us to offer services using Verizon s wireless network along with our existing network of Wi-Fi hotspots across our HFC network. We continue to evolve and enhance the capabilities of our domestic network. In connection with a multiyear network transformation plan, in 2022 we began rolling out downstream speeds of up to 2 gigabits per second to our residential customers, which are now available to approximately a third of our footprint on our HFC network, and in 2023, we began deploying DOCSIS 4.0 in select markets. DOCSIS 4.0 enables us to deliver multigigabit symmetrical broadband speeds over our existing HFC network. Additionally, as part of our network evolution, our engineering teams have been virtualizing and automating many core network functions using various technologies to expand capacity, increase operating efficiency, and identify and fix network issues proactively before they affect our customers. We continue to extend our network s reach to new homes and businesses within our existing service areas, as well as edging-out to new service areas to expand the number of homes and businesses passed, with homes and businesses considered passed if we can connect them to our network without further extending the transmission lines. Our investment in virtualizing the network enables us to maintain network reliability and operational efficiency regardless of whether we connect a residence using either fiber or our HFC network. We also have begun to partner with local, state and federal agencies when possible to provide services to unserved and underserved communities leveraging governmental subsidies where available. The components of our domestic network require periodic maintenance and replacement and are primarily located on owned and leased properties, and in locations under agreements with local public utilities and municipalities. We operate national and regional data centers with equipment that is used to provide our services and maintain network operations centers with equipment necessary to monitor and manage the status of our services and network. Our international services are offered leveraging third-party networks, as well as our own core fiber network for broadband and wireline voice services in the United Kingdom. The related operating plant and equipment used to provide our video and connectivity services include leased satellite system signal receiving, encoding and decoding devices, and owned and leased headends and distribution networks, including coaxial, fiber-optic cables and other related equipment. For a majority of international customers, our video platform is delivered via one-way digital satellite transmission that uses satellites leased from third parties for the distribution of television networks, augmented by a set-top box and high-speed, two-way broadband connectivity. We offer broadband and wireline voice services primarily using BT Openreach s network in the United Kingdom and Fastweb and Open Fiber s networks in Italy, and in many cases, the fee for us to access these networks is on regulated terms. The ranges of service levels and speeds we offer are dependent upon the capabilities and reach of these third-party networks. We offer wireless services in the United Kingdom using a combination of Virgin Media O2 s network and our own mobile core network. Our Connectivity Platforms business engineering teams continue to focus on technology initiatives to develop and deploy next-generation media, content delivery, content aggregation and streaming platforms that support X1, Sky Q, NOW, Sky Glass, Sky Stream, Xumo and our cloud DVR technology. These platforms are based on our global technology platform and integrate linear television networks, owned and third-party DTC streaming services and other internet-based apps, and on demand programming in a unified experience with voice-activated remote control search and interactive features. We also continue to focus on leveraging our own cloud network services to deliver video and advanced search capabilities. Our Connectivity Platforms business also pursues technology initiatives related to broadband and wireless services that leverage our global technology platform. We provide our customers with in-and-out-of-home Wi-Fi, the ability to manage their Wi-Fi network and connected home with our mobile apps and online portal, advanced security technology, and other features. Programming To offer video services, Residential Connectivity Platforms licenses substantial amounts of linear television programming from third parties and from our Media segment. The fees associated with these distribution agreements are generally based on the number of subscribers receiving the television network programming and a per subscriber fee, although programming expenses for certain television networks are based on a fixed fee. Additionally, certain of our agreements include the rights to offer such programming through multiple delivery platforms, such as through our on demand services, online portal, mobile apps, the Xumo Stream Box and our NOW and NOW TV streaming services. Comcast 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K 4 Table of Contents The programming on our Sky-branded entertainment television networks includes content licensed from third parties and from our Studios segment, including certain original content. Our most significant commitments for the licensing of film and television entertainment content include exclusive rights with Paramount, Warner Bros. and our Studios segment. Other Sources of Supply and Operations We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant amount of customer premise equipment, including wireless gateways and set-top boxes, network equipment and services to provide our broadband and video services to residential and business customers. We also purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of wireless devices. We use a limited number of vendors to provide customer billing for our residential and business customers. Our technical services groups perform various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our domestic HFC network, and servicing and upgrades of customer premise equipment. The service vehicles used by our technical services groups are primarily owned. Our customer service teams provide primarily 24/7 call-answering capability and other services and also offer our services to residential and business customers. Competition Residential Connectivity Platforms Broadband We compete with a number of companies offering internet services, including: wireline telecommunications companies wireless telecommunications companies municipal broadband networks and power companies satellite broadband providers Certain wireline telecommunications companies, such as AT T, Frontier, Lumen and Verizon in the United States and BT and Virgin Media in the United Kingdom, have built and are continuing to build fiber-based wireline network infrastructure further into their networks, which enables them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be provided with traditional copper digital subscriber line ( DSL ) technology, and are offering services with these higher speeds in many of our service areas. Certain companies that offer DSL service have increased data transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled services to compete with our broadband services. Various wireless companies are offering internet services using a variety of technologies, including 5G fixed wireless networks and 4G and 5G wireless broadband services. These networks work with devices such as smartphones, laptops, tablets, and mobile and fixed wireless routers, as well as wireless data cards. Other companies have launched fiber networks that provide broadband services in certain areas in which we operate, and certain municipalities in our service areas are also building fiber-based networks. Domestic broadband-deployment funding initiatives at the federal and state levels may result in other service providers deploying subsidized internet access networks within our footprint. The availability of these and other offerings could negatively impact the demand for our domestic broadband services. Wireless We compete with national and regional wireless service providers in the United States, including AT T, T-Mobile and Verizon, and wireless service providers in the United Kingdom that offer wireless service on both a stand-alone basis and with other services as bundled offerings. Video We compete with a number of companies offering video services in the Connectivity Platforms markets, including: DTC streaming and other over-the-top ( OTT ) service providers and aggregators, including: subscription-based services, such as Disney+ and Netflix, that offer online services that enable internet streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming virtual multichannel video providers, such as Hulu + Live TV and YouTube TV, that offer streamed linear television networks free ad-supported television services 5 Comcast 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents companies that offer streaming devices that access and integrate streaming content direct broadcast satellite ( DBS ) providers that transmit satellite signals to substantially all households in the Connectivity Platforms markets to provide video programming and other information similar to our video services companies that have built and continue to build fiber-based networks that provide video services similar to ours and provide bundled offerings that include wireless and/or broadband services other providers that build and operate communications systems and services in the same areas that we serve, including traditional providers of linear television programming a broad array of other online content providers, such as social networking platforms and user-generated content providers other companies, such as broadcast television stations, that provide multiple free-to-air networks Many of these competitors also have significant financial resources. Similar to the competitive environment in our Media segment, our Sky-branded entertainment television networks compete for the distribution of our television network programming to third-party video service providers and for viewers attention and audience share. Advertising We compete for the sale of advertising with television networks and stations, digital properties , including an increasing number of ad-supported DTC streaming and other OTT service providers and a broad array of other online content providers, such as social networking platforms and user-generated content providers, and all other advertising platforms. Similar to the competitive environment in our Media segment, the willingness of advertisers to purchase advertising from us may be adversely affected by declines in audience ratings and television viewership, difficulty in measuring fragmented audiences and the increasing number of entertainment choices available. Our advertising is sold to local, regional and national advertisers, and competition is affected by the market conditions in the specific geographic locations in which we operate. We also compete with companies offering technology, tools and other services to customers in the media industry. Business Services Connectivity Business Services Connectivity primarily competes with wireline telecommunications companies and wide area network managed service providers. Competition for our connectivity services for small business customers is generally similar to the Residential Connectivity Platforms segment. We compete for the sale of services to medium-sized customers and larger enterprises primarily with wide area network managed service providers, cloud-based application service providers, and other telecommunication carriers. Seasonality and Cyclicality Results in our Residential Connectivity Platforms segment are impacted by the seasonal nature of residential customers receiving our services, including in college and vacation markets in the United States, and by the timing of the European football seasons in our international markets, which generally result in negative impacts to net customer relationship additions/(losses) in the second quarter of each year. Similar to seasonal and cyclical variations in our Media segment, advertising revenue is subject to cyclical patterns and changes in viewership levels, driven by timing of the winter holiday season, political campaigns, sports seasons and when programming is aired. Comcast 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K 6 Table of Contents Content Experiences Business Media Segment We operate our Media segment as a combined television and streaming business, which primarily includes: NBCUniversal s national and regional cable networks NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks and owned local broadcast television stations Peacock DTC streaming service international television networks, including Sky Sports networks in the United Kingdom and Italy We distribute a wide variety of programming on our linear television networks and streaming services to appeal to consumers with varying preferences across demographics and geographic areas. R evenue is primarily generated from the sale of advertising and from the distribution of our television and streaming programming. We sell advertising on our linear television networks, Peacock and other digital properties. Our advertising sales are affected by the prices we charge for each advertising unit, which are generally based on the size and demographics of our viewing audiences, audience ratings on our television networks, the number of advertising units we can place in our programming and on our digital properties, and our ability to sell advertising across our television and streaming business. We receive fees from the d istribution of our television networks to traditional multichannel video providers, such as our Residential Connectivity Platforms segment, and virtual multichannel video providers that offer streamed linear television networks. Our distribution agreements are generally multiyear, with revenue based on the number of subscribers receiving the programming on our television networks and a per subscriber fee, although revenue for certain of our television networks is based on a fixed fee. These fees include amounts for our owned television networks, including under NBC and Telemundo retransmission consent agreements, as well as associated fees from NBC-affiliated and Telemundo-affiliated local broadcast television stations. We also receive