Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II. 25 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 89 PART III. 89 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11. Executive Compensation 89 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence 89 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 89 PART IV. 90 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 94 Signatures 95 2 Table of Contents PART I Certain Terms All references to "options" or "options contracts" in the text of this document refer to options on futures contracts. Further information about CME Group and its products can be found at http://www.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information about Contract Volume and Average Rate per Contract All amounts regarding contract volume and average rate per contract exclude our interest rate swaps and credit default swaps as well as volume data for NEX unless otherwise noted. In March 2018, we exited the credit default swaps business. Trademark Information CME Group, the Globe logo, CME, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Globex, and E-mini are trademarks of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. CBOT and Chicago Board of Trade are trademarks of Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. NYMEX, New York Mercantile Exchange and ClearPort are trademarks of New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. COMEX is a trademark of Commodity Exchange, Inc. NEX, BrokerTec, EBS, TriOptima, and Traiana are trademarks of various entities of NEX Group Limited (NEX). Dow Jones, Dow Jones Industrial Average, S P 500 and S P are service and/or trademarks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC, Standard Poor's Financial Services LLC and S P/Dow Jones Indices LLC, as the case may be, and have been licensed for use by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS From time to time, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as in other written reports and verbal statements, we discuss our expectations regarding future performance. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "believe," "anticipate," "could," "estimate," "intend," "may," "plan," "expect" and similar expressions, including references to assumptions. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and management's beliefs and assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. We want to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that might affect our performance are: increasing competition by foreign and domestic entities, including increased competition from new entrants into our markets and consolidation of existing entities; our ability to keep pace with rapid technological developments, including our ability to complete the development, implementation and maintenance of the enhanced functionality required by our customers while maintaining reliability and ensuring that such technology is not vulnerable to security risks; our ability to continue introducing competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis, including through our electronic trading capabilities, and our ability to maintain the competitiveness of our existing products and services, including our ability to provide effective services to the swaps market; our ability to adjust our fixed costs and expenses if our revenues decline; our ability to maintain existing customers at substantially similar trading levels, develop strategic relationships and attract new customers; our ability to expand and globally offer our products and services; changes in regulations, including the impact of any changes in laws or government policy with respect to our products or services or our industry, such as any changes to regulations and policies that require increased financial and operational resources from us or our customers; the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights and our ability to operate our business without violating the intellectual property rights of others; decreases in revenue from our market data as a result of decreased demand or changes to regulations in various jurisdictions; 3 Table of Contents changes in our rate per contract due to shifts in the mix of the products traded, the trading venue and the mix of customers (whether the customer receives member or non-member fees or participates in one of our various incentive programs) and the impact of our tiered pricing structure; the ability of our credit and liquidity risk management practices to adequately protect us from the credit risks of clearing members and other counterparties, and to satisfy the margin and liquidity requirements associated with the BrokerTec matched principal business; the ability of our compliance and risk management methods to effectively monitor and manage our risks, including our ability to prevent errors and misconduct and protect our infrastructure against security breaches and misappropriation of our intellectual property assets; our dependence on third-party providers and exposure to risk through third-parties, including risks related to the performance, reliability and security of technology used by our third-party providers; volatility in commodity, equity and fixed income prices, and price volatility of financial benchmarks and instruments such as interest rates, credit spreads, equity indices, fixed income instruments and foreign exchange rates; economic, social, political and market conditions, including the volatility of the capital and credit markets and the impact of economic conditions on the trading activity of our current and potential customers; our ability to accommodate increases in contract volume and order transaction traffic and to implement enhancements without failure or degradation of the performance of our trading and clearing systems; our ability to execute our growth strategy and maintain our growth effectively; our ability to manage the risks, control the costs and achieve the synergies associated with our strategy for acquisitions, investments and alliances, including those associated with the acquisition of NEX; our ability to continue to generate funds and/or manage our indebtedness to allow us to continue to invest in our business; industry and customer consolidation; decreases in trading and clearing activity; the imposition of a transaction tax or user fee on futures and options transactions and/or repeal of the 60/40 tax treatment of such transactions; our ability to maintain our brand and reputation; and the unfavorable resolution of material legal proceedings. For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that might affect our performance, see Item 1A. of this Report beginning on page 14. 4 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS CME Group enables clients to trade futures, options, cash and over-the-counter (OTC) markets, optimize portfolios, and analyze data - empowering market participants worldwide to efficiently manage risk and capture opportunities. GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS CME was founded in 1898 as a not-for-profit corporation. It established CME Clearing as a division of CME in 1919. CME demutualized in 2000, and in 2002 its parent company completed its initial public offering of its Class A common stock (NASDAQ: CME). We subsequently acquired CBOT Holdings, Inc. in 2007, NYMEX and COMEX in 2008, the Kansas City Board of Trade in 2012 and NEX Group plc (NEX) in November 2018. Our combination with NEX expands our global customer base and product offerings through the complementary combination of CME Group s exchange-traded derivative products and NEX s cash and OTC products. It also creates a leading, client-centric, global markets company, generating capital efficiencies across futures, cash and OTC products for market participants seeking to lower their cost of trading and better manage risk. Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, and our telephone number is 312-930-1000. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes based on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange (FX), agricultural, energy and metal commodities. We offer futures and options on futures trading across asset classes through the CME Globex platform, cash and repo fixed income trading via BrokerTec, and cash and OTC FX trading via EBS. In addition, we operate one of the world s leading central counterparty clearing providers, CME Clearing, a division of CME. With a range of pre- and post-trade products and services underpinning the entire lifecycle of a trade, CME Group offers optimization, reconciliation and processing services through TriOptima, Traiana and Reset. Derivatives Exchange Business: Through our derivatives exchanges and clearing house, we believe our customers choose to trade on our centralized market due to its liquidity, diversity of products, price transparency and technological capabilities. Market liquidity - or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently - is key to attracting and retaining customers and contributing to a market's success. Our CME Group products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation related to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency and changes in the prices of agricultural, energy and metal commodities. CME's product slate includes agricultural, equities, FX and interest rate products, including contracts for Eurodollars, Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) and contracts based on the S P, NASDAQ-100 and FTSE Russell Indexes. CBOT's product slate consists of agricultural, equities, energy and interest rate products, including contracts for United States (U.S.) Treasury futures, corn and other grains and contracts based on the Dow Jones Industrial Index. NYMEX's product slate consists of energy and metals products, including contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil and gasoline. COMEX's product slate consists of metals products, including contracts for gold, silver and copper. We believe the breadth and diversity of our product lines and the variety of their underlying contracts are beneficial to our customers and CME Group's overall performance. Our asset classes contain products designed to address differing risk management needs, and customers are able to achieve operational and capital efficiencies by accessing our diverse products through our platforms and our clearing house. Our CME Group products are traded primarily through CME Globex and other electronic trading platforms, by open outcry auction markets in Chicago, and through privately negotiated transactions. We strive to provide the most flexible and scalable platforms to support the operational and capacity needs of the business along with the delivery of innovative technology solutions to the marketplace. Our CME Globex electronic platform is the trading engine for our central limit order book markets and is available on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. The CME Globex platform is accessible through a wide variety of vendor-provided and custom-built trading systems that benefit from our open application programming interface approach. For privately negotiated markets, we offer brokers and customers the CME Direct platform for arranging, executing, recording and risk-managing trades. CME Direct includes CME One for mobile access and CME Straight-Through Processing, which enables direct connectivity for trade information directly with customer order management and risk management systems and is designed to reduce errors and improve efficiency. 5 Table of Contents Together, our platforms offer: certainty of execution; extensive capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading; direct market access; fairness, price transparency and anonymity; convenience and efficiency; connectivity through highly secure, resilient and low-latency network options; and global distribution, including connectivity through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers or order routing to our global partner exchanges. We maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities designed to provide nearly continuous availability of our markets in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We also maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events. The customer base of our derivatives exchanges includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers, governments and central banks. Customers may be members of one or more of our exchanges. Rights to directly access our derivatives markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the entity or individual is a member of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access. U.S. trading rights and privileges are exchange-specific. Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members. Membership on one of our derivatives exchanges also enables a customer to trade specific products at reduced rates and lower fees. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections. In 2019, 85% of our contract volume was from trades by our members. CME Clearing Business: Through our clearing house, CME Clearing, which is a division of CME, provides clearing services for all of our exchange-traded contracts, for certain cleared-only products and for certain contracts traded on other exchanges. Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and the soundness of our exchange markets by serving as the counterparty to every futures and options trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting counterparty credit risk. The clearing house is responsible for settling trading accounts, clearing trades, collecting and maintaining performance bond funds, regulating delivery and reporting trading data. CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a day, requires payments from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and makes payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select cleared-only markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. The CME ClearPort front-end system provides access to our flexible clearing services for block transactions and swaps. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represents charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. No individual firm represented at least 10% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for 2019. In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, our experience indicates that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to one or more other clearing firms of the exchange. Cash Markets Business: Our cash markets business is comprised of BrokerTec and EBS. Certain BrokerTec and EBS contracts are cleared at third-party clearing houses. BrokerTec is a global electronic platform for the trading of fixed income products, with a leading position in cash U.S. Treasuries, as well as activity in European government bonds and E.U. and U.S. repo fixed income instruments. It facilitates trading principally for banks and non-bank professional trading firms. EBS is a global electronic platform for the trading of FX products across major and emerging market currencies. EBS offers anonymous and disclosed trading venues, which gives clients multiple execution and distribution options and the benefit of an established and far-reaching distribution network of liquidity providers and consumers. It also offers execution of non-deliverable forwards through a CFTC-registered Swap Execution Facility (SEF). Optimization Business: Our optimization services, which includes Traiana, TriOptima and Reset, delivers transaction lifecycle management services to help our clients simplify their workflow, optimize their capital and resources, mitigate their risk, increase efficiency, reduce their operational costs and streamline complex processes. Trade and portfolio management comprises portfolio and margin reconciliation, monitoring pre-trade risk and automating post-trade processing of financial transactions. Financial resource optimization comprises portfolio compression, basis risk mitigation, portfolio balancing and derivative pricing and risk analytics. 6 Table of Contents Regulatory reporting comprises trade and position reporting (including licensed MiFID agent reporting to national regulators and the public), end-to-end multi-regime regulatory reporting, data normalization, enrichment, reconciliation, validation and cross-jurisdictional matching. Trade Processing comprises end-to-end automation, from trade execution notification to trade confirmation of post-trade processing, in real-time to reduce operational risks and costs. Market Data Business: We offer a variety of market data services for the futures, equities, OTC, cash and cleared swaps markets. Our market data platforms provide real-time and historical market data related to CME Group exchanges and our cash markets business. We also deliver independent market intelligence and pricing information for cash and OTC data to financial market participants using intelligence from our businesses and third parties. Our Strategic Initiatives The following is a description of our strategic initiatives: Maximize Futures and Options Growth Globally - We continue to focus on driving growth and new customer acquisition by expanding, innovating and scaling our core offerings, and increasing participation from non-U.S. customers. We do this by expanding our global sales team, cross-selling our products, expanding the strength of our existing benchmark products, launching new products and services and deepening open interest in our core futures and options offerings. During this decade, our key product launches have included the Ultra U.S. Treasury Bond futures and options, short-dated options across asset classes, new base metal products, expanded crude oil grades, Basis Trade at Index Close (BTIC) transactions, S P Dividend futures, E-mini Russell 1000 and 2000 futures, a cash-settled bitcoin futures contract, and SOFR futures contracts. We continued to introduce new products in 2019, including Micro E-mini S P 500 Equity Index futures, E-mini S P 500 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) index futures, Shanghai Gold futures, physical Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) futures and expanded our SOFR futures listings. In continuing our commitment to expanding our international presence, we launched an interactive CME Liquidity Tool to help market participants analyze liquidity across CME Group products during U.S., London or Singapore trading hours. We also launched bitcoin options and options on SOFR in January 2020. During 2019, we experienced overall average daily volume of 19.2 million contracts, along with volume records in both interest rates and metals. We also had record volume in overall options, with electronic options representing 64% of total options volume in 2019. We continued to deepen liquidity and add diverse participation as evidenced by the growth in large open interest holders with records achieved across several product lines in 2019. We continue to expand and deepen our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world with the most broad diversified portfolio of benchmark products. We believe we have significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets. Our penetration of these markets lags our development in the United States, and we believe that there is room for significant growth and development of these financial markets. In 2019, approximately 28% of our electronic futures and options volume was from transactions reported as outside the United States and approximately 58% of our market data revenue was derived from outside the United States. We also achieved 20% growth in trading volume during Asian trading hours and 7% growth during European trading hours in 2019 compared to the 2018. We have increased our customer base and continue to target cross-asset sales across client segments, driving international sales and generating new client participation across all regions. We have a long history of providing customer value and responsiveness and believe our products and services well position us to help our customers adapt and comply with new regulations, while enabling them to efficiently manage their risks. We have a broad distribution network comprised of a combination of internal and external channels and front-end capabilities. Diversify our Business and Revenue - Our acquisition of NEX strengthened our role in the global market infrastructure, adding complementary cash and OTC businesses and scale to our listed interest rate and FX products, while enabling new efficiencies for the derivatives marketplace. We are positioned to take direct advantage of growth in treasury issuance, liquid treasury holdings and the trading of treasury instruments, as well as growing repo activity. The transaction expanded CME Group s position in the large, highly competitive, and highly fragmented, $6 trillion plus per trading day global FX marketplace, offering both order book trading and relationship trading solutions for customers. The acquisition added strength in underlying customer marketplaces, especially around regional bank customers and other market participants outside of North America and expanded our post-trade and trade-processing services and market data solutions beyond futures and options into cash and OTC offerings. Our joint venture with S P Global, Inc., S P/DJI Indices LLC, combines the world class capabilities of the S P and Dow Jones Indices, and is a significant player in passive investing, including the exchange-traded fund (ETF) industry value chain. As part of the joint venture, we acquired a long-term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options based on the S P 500 Index and certain other S P indices. We also act as the joint ventures' licensing agent and distribution services provider. 7 Table of Contents Deliver Unparalleled Customer Efficiencies and Operational Excellence - With changing regulatory capital requirements for many of our customers and the need for greater efficiencies, we have added tools to enable customers to build and manage trading and clearing positions in our markets in an efficient manner. With the ongoing implementation of regulatory reform in the United States and in Europe, along with global implementation of Basel III capital requirements on financial institutions, we expect capital efficiencies and centralized clearing to continue to be important for our global client base. We provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to market participants for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to our clearing house. Our clearing services offer the ability to optimize collateral and capital efficiencies across portfolios within the clearing house while meeting the heightened regulatory requirements on derivatives. The majority of our clearing volumes and activities are related to our listed futures and options, which represents the majority of our open interest and collateral held against these positions. We also offer clearing services for interest rate swaps, FX forwards and commodity swaps. In May 2019, we announced the launch of our next generation Standard Portfolio Analysis of Risk (SPAN) margin framework CME SPAN 2. The new framework will provide enhanced risk management capabilities in a single, unified interface by maintaining SPAN's current calculations and functions while incorporating several new modeling, reporting and margin replication enhancements. CME SPAN 2 will be launched in a phased, multi-year approach and in compliance with regulatory responsibilities, beginning with energy products. We plan to begin the roll-out in the first half of 2020, subject to receipt of final approvals. In addition to providing trade reporting services in the United States, Europe, Canada and Australia, CME Group provides various tools and services to assist customers with capital and operational efficiencies. For example: CME Clearing provides compression via coupon blending as well as CME CORE, an interactive margin calculator that enables clients to optimize their capital by providing insights on margin requirements prior to trading. triReduce provides multilateral portfolio compression, which reduces notional outstanding exposure and line items in order to reduce operational resources and risks, minimize regulatory capital costs, and manage counterparty exposures. Traiana provides various operational efficiencies and risk mitigation solutions to clients through bilateral and tri-party pre- and post-trade processing and credit risk management. Reset provides risk mitigation services to clients looking to hedge short-term interest rate and options expiry exposure. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have a number of patent applications pending. Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities. We also own copyrights to a variety of materials. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and on-line publications, websites, advertisements, educational materials, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic. We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. We offer equity index futures and options on key benchmarks, including S P, NASDAQ, Dow Jones and the FTSE Russell indexes. These products are listed by us subject to license agreements with the applicable owners of the indexes, some of which are exclusive. In connection with our joint venture with S P Global, Inc., we have a license agreement (S P License Agreement), which superseded our prior licensing arrangements and was assigned to the joint venture. CME s license for the S P 500 Index will be exclusive for futures and options until one year prior to the termination of the S P License Agreement, and non-exclusive for the last year. The license for the other S P stock indexes is generally exclusive for futures and options. The term of the S P License Agreement will continue until the date that is one year after the date that CME Group ceases to own at least five percent (accounting for dilution) of the outstanding joint venture interests. Upon the occurrence of certain events, including certain terminations of the joint venture, the term may be extended up to an additional ten years. CBOT has an exclusive license agreement (Dow Jones License Agreement) with CME Group Index Services LLC (CME Indexes) for certain Dow Jones indexes, which has also been assigned to the joint venture. The initial term of the agreement is through June 30, 2026. Following the initial term, the Dow Jones License Agreement shall automatically renew for renewal terms of five years thereafter so long as there is open interest in any of CBOT s or its affiliates products based on one or more of the Dow Jones licensed indexes. In the event there is no open interest in any such products, then CME Indexes may terminate the agreement. We also have an exclusive license agreement for certain NASDAQ indexes, which was extended for an additional ten years in 2018 through 2029. In 2015, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with FTSE Russell and launched the E-mini