Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II. 27 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Reserved 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 82 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 82 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 PART III. 86 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11. Executive Compensation 86 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 86 Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence 86 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 86 PART IV. 86 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 86 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Signatures 92 2 Table of Contents PART I Certain Terms All references to "options" or "options contracts" in the text of this document refer to options on futures contracts. Further information about CME Group and its products can be found at http://www.cmegroup.com . Information made available on our website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information about Contract Volume and Average Rate per Contract All amounts regarding contract volume and average rate per contract are for CME Group's listed futures and options on futures contracts unless otherwise noted. Trademark Information CME Group, the Globe logo, CME, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Globex, and E-mini are trademarks of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. CBOT and Chicago Board of Trade are trademarks of Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. NYMEX, New York Mercantile Exchange and ClearPort are trademarks of New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. COMEX is a trademark of Commodity Exchange, Inc. NEX, BrokerTec and EBS are trademarks of various entities of NEX Group Limited (NEX). Dow Jones, Dow Jones Industrial Average, S P 500 and S P are service and/or trademarks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC, Standard Poor's Financial Services LLC and S P/Dow Jones Indices LLC, as the case may be, and have been licensed for use by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. ("CME"). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS From time to time, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as in other written reports and verbal statements, we discuss our expectations regarding future performance. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "believe," "anticipate," "could," "estimate," "intend," "may," "plan," "expect" and similar expressions, including references to assumptions. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and management's beliefs and assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. We want to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that might affect our performance are: increasing competition by foreign and domestic entities, including increased competition from new entrants into our markets and consolidation of existing entities; our ability to keep pace with rapid technological developments, including our ability to complete the development, implementation and maintenance of the enhanced functionality required by our customers while maintaining reliability and ensuring that such technology is not vulnerable to security risks; our ability to continue introducing competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis, including through our electronic trading capabilities, and our ability to maintain the competitiveness of our existing products and services, including our ability to provide effective services to the swaps market; our ability to adjust our fixed costs and expenses if our revenues decline; our ability to maintain existing customers at substantially similar trading levels, develop strategic relationships and attract new customers; our ability to expand and globally offer our products and services; changes in regulations, including the impact of any changes in laws or government policies with respect to our products or services or our industry, such as any changes to regulations and policies that require increased financial and operational resources from us or our customers; the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights and our ability to operate our business without violating the intellectual property rights of others; decreases in revenue from our market data as a result of decreased demand or changes to regulations in various jurisdictions; 3 Table of Contents changes in our rate per contract due to shifts in the mix of the products traded, the trading venue and the mix of customers (whether the customer receives member or non-member fees or participates in one of our various incentive programs) and the impact of our tiered pricing structure; the ability of our credit and liquidity risk management practices to adequately protect us from the credit risks of clearing members and other counterparties, and to satisfy the margin and liquidity requirements associated with the BrokerTec matched principal business; the ability of our compliance and risk management programs to effectively monitor and manage our risks, including our ability to prevent errors and misconduct and protect our infrastructure against security breaches and misappropriation of our intellectual property assets; our dependence on third-party providers and exposure to risk through third parties, including risks related to the performance, reliability and security of technology used by our third-party providers; volatility in commodity, equity and fixed income prices, and price volatility of financial benchmarks and instruments such as interest rates, credit spreads, equity indices, fixed income instruments and foreign exchange rates; economic, social, political and market conditions, including the volatility of the capital and credit markets and the impact of economic conditions on the trading activity of our current and potential customers; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and response by governments and other third parties; our ability to accommodate increases in contract volume and order transaction traffic and to implement enhancements without failure or degradation of the performance of our trading and clearing systems; our ability to execute our growth strategy and maintain our growth effectively; our ability to manage the risks, control the costs and achieve the synergies associated with our strategy for acquisitions, investments and alliances, including those associated with our joint venture with IHS Markit and our partnership with Google Cloud; uncertainty related to the transition from LIBOR; our ability to continue to generate funds and/or manage our indebtedness to allow us to continue to invest in our business; industry and customer consolidation; decreases in trading and clearing activity; the imposition of a transaction tax or user fee on futures and options transactions and/or repeal of the 60/40 tax treatment of such transactions; our ability to maintain our brand and reputation; and the unfavorable resolution of material legal proceedings. For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that might affect our performance, see Item 1A. of this Report beginning on page 15 . 4 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS CME Group provides market participants worldwide the ability to efficiently manage risk within and across multiple asset classes, by trading futures, options, cash and over-the-counter (OTC) products. CME Group provides primary price discovery and referential pricing information through its market data in a variety of formats, including real time, historical and derived data for customers in both listed and cash products. CME Group also offers industry-leading research and analytics tools to provide customers with market education resources. GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS CME was founded in 1898 as a not-for-profit corporation. It established CME Clearing in 1919, which is operated as part of CME. CME demutualized in 2000, and in 2002 its parent company, CME Group, completed an initial public offering of its Class A common stock (Nasdaq: CME). CME Group subsequently acquired CBOT Holdings, Inc. in 2007, NYMEX Holdings, Inc. (NYMEX and COMEX) in 2008, the Kansas City Board of Trade in 2012 and NEX Group plc (NEX) in 2018. The combination with NEX expanded our global customer base and product offerings through the complementary combination of CME Group s exchange-traded derivative products and NEX s cash and OTC products. It also created a leading, client-centric, global markets company, generating capital efficiencies across futures, cash and OTC products for market participants seeking to lower their cost of trading and better manage risk. Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, our telephone number is 312-930-1000 and our website is cmegroup.com . DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange (FX), agricultural commodities, energy and metals. We also offer cash and repo fixed income trading via BrokerTec, and cash and OTC FX trading via EBS. In addition, we operate one of the world s leading central counterparty clearing providers, CME Clearing, operated by CME. Derivatives Exchange Business: Through our derivatives exchanges and clearing house, we believe our customers prefer CME Group's diversity of products, liquidity, price transparency and technological capabilities. Market liquidity - or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently - is key to attracting and retaining customers and contributing to a market's success. Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation related to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency and changes in the prices of agricultural, energy and metal commodities. CME's product slate includes agricultural, equities, FX, cryptocurrencies/alternative investments and interest rate products, including Eurodollar futures and options, Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) futures and options, Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield (BSBY), livestock and cash-settled contracts based on the S P 500, including the E-mini S P 500 ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) contract, Micro E-mini Equity Index contracts, Nasdaq-100, FTSE Russell and Bitcoin and Ether Reference Rate. CBOT's product slate consists of agricultural, equities and interest rate products, including contracts for United States (U.S.) Treasury futures, soybean, corn, wheat and contracts based on the Dow Jones Industrial Index. NYMEX's product slate consists of energy and metals products, including contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil, gasoline and emissions contracts (GEO and NGO). COMEX's product slate consists of metals products, including contracts for gold, silver, copper and other base metals. We believe the breadth and diversity of our products and services lines are beneficial to our customers and CME Group's overall performance. Our asset classes contain products designed to address differing risk management needs, and customers are able to manage risks and achieve operational and capital efficiencies by accessing our diverse products through our platforms and our clearing house. CME Group products are traded primarily through CME Globex, as well as by open outcry in Chicago for Eurodollar options and SOFR options and through privately negotiated transactions. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020 we closed our open outcry trading floor and reopened it in August 2020 for Eurodollar options. In May 2021, we announced our decision to permanently close the trading floor outside of Eurodollar options and SOFR options. We strive to provide the most flexible and scalable platforms to support the operational and capacity needs of our business along with the delivery of innovative technology solutions to the marketplace. Our CME Globex electronic platform is the trading engine for our central limit order book markets and is available on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. The CME Globex platform is accessible through a wide variety of vendor-provided and custom-built trading systems that benefit from our open application programming interface approach. For electronic and privately negotiated 5 Table of Contents markets, we offer brokers and customers the CME Direct platform for arranging, executing, recording and risk-managing trades across all six major asset classes. We also provide the functionality to connect to CME Direct on a mobile device through our CME Direct Mobile application with full trading and on-the-go order management capabilities. Together, our platforms offer: certainty of execution; extensive capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading; direct market access; fairness, price transparency and anonymity; convenience and efficiency; connectivity through highly secure, resilient and low-latency network options; access to market data; and global distribution, including connectivity through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers or order routing to our global partner exchanges. We maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities designed to provide nearly continuous availability of our markets in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We also maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events. The customer base of our derivatives exchanges includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers, governments and central banks. Customers may be members of one or more of our exchanges. Rights to directly access our derivatives markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the entity or individual is a member of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access. U.S. trading rights and privileges are exchange-specific. Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members. Membership on one of our derivatives exchanges also enables a customer to trade specific products at lower fees. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections. In 2021, 84% of our contract volume was from trades by our members. CME Clearing Business: Through our clearing house, CME Clearing, which is operated by CME, we provide clearing and settlement services for a broad range of exchange-traded futures and options on futures contracts and OTC derivatives. Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and the soundness of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting counterparty credit risk. CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a trading day, requiring payments from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and making payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select cleared-only markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. The CME ClearPort front-end system provides access to our flexible clearing services for block transactions, bi-lateral trades and swaps. In 2021, we launched the derivatives industry s first Sustainable Clearing service to help market participants track and report how their hedging activities are advancing their sustainability goals. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represents charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. One firm represented at least 10% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for 2021. In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, our experience indicates that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to one or more other clearing firms of the exchange. Cash Markets Business: Our cash markets business is comprised of BrokerTec and EBS. Certain BrokerTec and EBS contracts are cleared at third-party clearing houses. BrokerTec and EBS offer anonymous and disclosed trading venues, offering clients multiple execution and distribution options and the benefit of an established and far-reaching distribution network of liquidity providers and consumers. Our BrokerTec markets were migrated from a third-party platform to our CME Globex electronic platform in the first quarter of 2021 and our EBS market is expected to migrate to the CME Globex platform in the first half of 2022. BrokerTec operates global electronic trading for fixed income products on the CME Globex platform, with a leading position in cash U.S. Treasuries, E.U. and U.S. repo fixed income instruments and European Government Bonds. It facilitates trading principally for banks and non-bank professional trading firms. EBS is a global electronic platform for the trading of FX products across major and emerging market currencies. EBS also offers execution of non-deliverable forwards through a Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) registered swap execution facility (SEF). EBS operates both as a Central Limit Order Book platform (EBS Market) for 6 Table of Contents spot and non-deliverable forwards currency pairs, as well as a relationship-based trading platform offering spot FX, FX forwards and FX swaps (EBS Direct). Market Data Business: We offer a variety of market data services through industry-leading market data platforms and third-party distribution partners, which are designed to meet the risk-management, trading, investment and business needs of our global client base. As such, we provide proprietary real-time and historical market data related to CME Group s vibrant and deeply liquid exchanges and cash markets businesses. We further offer derived cash markets pricing, third-party and alternative data sets, as well as a wide range of analytic tools. As customers continue to leverage cloud technology to improve and evolve their businesses, CME Group has taken a leading role by becoming the first derivatives marketplace to provide live market data natively in the cloud with the launch of our cloud connect capabilities on Google Cloud Platform. CME Group is also the distributor of leading benchmark equity and commodity indices on behalf of third parties as well as our own proprietary benchmarks and indices. Our Strategic Initiatives The following is a description of our strategic initiatives: Maximize Futures and Options Growth Globally - We continue to focus on driving growth and new customer acquisition by expanding, innovating and scaling our core offerings, and increasing participation from non-U.S. customers. We do this by expanding our global sales team, cross-selling our products, expanding the strength of our existing benchmark products, launching new products and services and deepening open interest in our core futures and options offerings. We have further focused on building upon cloud-based data distribution capabilities as a more flexible and potentially cost-effective means of providing data to our clients. In 2021, CME Group futures and options had an average daily volume of 19.6 million contracts, with a volume record in our equity asset class for the sixth consecutive year. It was also a year of volume records for multiple products, including Ultra 10 Year futures, SOFR futures, Bitcoin futures, Micro E-Mini Equity Index futures and a record number of contracts executed via Basis Trade at Index Close. We set records in the volume traded for our Micro E-Mini Equity Index futures in total, as well as for each of the Micro E-Mini Nasdaq-100, Russell 2000 and Dow 30 contracts. We continue to expand and deepen our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broad and diversified portfolio of benchmark products. Some of our products introduced over the past two years include: 3-Year Treasury Note Futures (2020) Adjusted Interest Rate (AIR) Total Return Futures (2020) Cash-settled Bitcoin Options (2020) SOFR Options (2020) Micro E-mini Equity Index Options (2020) Brazilian Soybean Futures (2020) Pork Cutout Futures and Options (2020) European Renewable Fuel Futures (2020) Nasdaq-100 Volatility Index (VOLQ) Futures (2020) Nasdaq Veles California Water Index Futures (2020) Adjusted Interest Rate Total Return Futures (2020) E-mini Nasdaq 100 Weekly Options (2021) E-mini Russell 2000 Weekly Options (2021) Micro Bitcoin Futures (2021) Ether and Micro Ether Futures (2021) Micro Treasury Yield Futures (2021) Micro WTI Futures (2021) Global Emissions Offset (GEO) and Nature-based Global Emissions Offset (N-GEO) Futures (2021) In addition to the individual product launches noted above, we have completed many product extensions across our asset classes, including short-dated options products (Monday and Wednesday weekly options on the E-Mini Nasdaq 100 and Russell 2000), expanded Japanese energy futures (including four new Japanese electricity futures contracts and two new LNG futures contracts), and additional implied volatility products in fixed income, energy, metals and agricultural products to our suite of CME Group Volatility Indexes (CVOL). We continue to expand and deepen our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world with the most broad and diversified portfolio of benchmark products. We believe we have a significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets. Our penetration of these markets lags our development in the U.S., and we believe that there is room for significant growth and development of these financial markets. In 2021, approximately 29% of our electronic 7 Table of Contents futures and options volume was from transactions reported as outside the U.S. and approximately 56% of our market data revenue was derived from outside the U.S. We also achieved 5% growth in trading volume during Asian trading hours and 3% growth during European trading hours in 2021 compared to 2020. CME Group is also the distributor of leading benchmark equity and commodity indices on behalf of third parties, as well as our own proprietary benchmarks and indices including CME Term SOFR. In 2021, we updated the FX Market Profile Tool and launched a Metals Market Profile and, in 2022, we launched an UST Market Profile. The FX and Metals Market Profile Tool on Quant Analytics offers a simple but effective method for clients to compare and contrast our leading FX and metals products and liquidity pools side-by-side, which in turn enables clients to analyze their opportunity to minimize costs and achieve best execution by accessing highly complementary liquidity pools across cash and futures markets. We expect to continue to expand this Quant Analytics suite in the future as well. Our CME Liquidity Tool enables market participants to analyze liquidity across CME Group products during U.S., London or Singapore trading hours and was expanded to 37 products in 2021 to meet customer demand for our growing product suite. To further our commitment to our global customers, in 2020, we introduced a TreasuryWatch Tool and additional tools to help customers and prospective customers identify key marketplace developments and potential risk management and trading opportunities (e.g., SOFR-LIBOR spread). In 2021, we extended our new CVOL family with two additional releases for a total of 40 indexes, including six unique broad-based benchmarks such as the Treasury Volatility Index and Commodity Volatility Index. We also introduced an initiative to launch real-time streaming versions of the CVOL indexes, which is expected to occur in 2022. We have increased our customer base and continue to target cross-asset sales across client segments, driving global sales and generating new client participation across all regions. We have a long history of providing customer value and responsiveness and believe our products and services position us to help our customers adapt to and comply with new regulations, while enabling them to efficiently manage their risks. We have a broad distribution network comprised of a combination of internal and external channels and proprietary front-end capabilities. Diversify our Business and Revenue - Our acquisition of NEX strengthened our role in global financial markets infrastructure and information services, adding complementary cash and OTC businesses and scale to our listed interest rate and FX products, while broadening our global client base. We are positioned to take direct advantage of growth in treasury issuance, liquid treasury holdings and the trading of treasury instruments, as well as growing repo activity in the U.S. and Europe. The transaction expanded CME Group s position in the large, highly competitive and highly fragmented global FX marketplace, offering both order book trading and relationship-based trading solutions for customers. The acquisition added strength in underlying customer marketplaces, especially around regional bank customers and other market participants outside of North America, and expanded our market data solutions beyond futures and options into cash and OTC offerings. During 2021, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC) formally recommended the forward-looking term rates based on SOFR published by our subsidiary, CME Group Benchmark Administration Limited. The ARRC formalized this recommendation in July 2021. We are working closely with our customers during this transition, and we will continue to offer capital-efficient choices to manage risk via Eurodollar, 30-Day Federal Fund, SOFR and SONIA futures, as well as SOFR- and SONIA-based cleared OTC swaps. We are also licensing the CME Term SOFR rate to third parties. Our joint venture with S P Global, Inc., S P/DJI Indices LLC, combines the world class capabilities of the S P and Dow Jones Indices, and is a significant player in passive investing, including the exchange-traded fund (ETF) industry value chain. As part of the joint venture, we acquired a long-term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options based on the S P 500 Index and certain other S P indices. We also act as the joint ventures' licensing agent and distribution services provider. In September 2021, we completed the establishment of OSTTRA, a 50/50 joint venture with IHS Markit that combines our post-trade services business (Traiana, TriOptima and Reset) and IHS Markit s MarkitSERV, and serves as a leading provider of progressive post-trade solutions for the global OTC markets across interest rate, FX, equity and credit asset classes. In connection with the establishment of OSTTRA, we contributed the net assets of our post-trade services business to the joint venture in exchange for cash and a 50% equity interest in the company. Deliver Unparalleled Customer Efficiencies and Operational Excellence - With changing regulatory capital requirements for many of our customers, including additional margin requirements on uncleared trades, and the need for greater efficiencies, we have added tools to enable customers to manage trading and clearing positions in our markets in an efficient manner. With the ongoing implementation of regulatory reform in the U.S. and in Europe, along with global implementation of Basel III capital requirements on financial institutions, we expect capital efficiencies and centralized clearing to continue to be important for our global client base. We provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to market participants for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to our clearing house. Our clearing services offer the ability to optimize collateral 8 Table of Contents and capital efficiencies across portfolios within the clearing house while meeting the heightened regulatory requirements on derivatives. The majority of our clearing volumes and activities are related to our listed futures and options, which represents the majority of our open interest and collateral held against these positions. We also offer clearing services for OTC interest rate swaps, FX forwards and commodity swaps. The addition of our enhanced Standard Portfolio Analysis of Risk (SPAN) margin framework, CME SPAN 2, will provide enhanced risk management capabilities in a single, unified interface by maintaining SPAN's current calculations and functions wh