Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 26 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II. 28 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Reserved 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 81 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 81 Item 9B. Other Information 85 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 85 PART III. 85 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 85 Item 11. Executive Compensation 85 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 85 Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 86 PART IV. 86 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 86 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 Signatures 91 2 Table of Contents PART I Certain Terms All references to "options" or "options contracts" in the text of this document refer to options on futures contracts. Further information about CME Group and its products can be found at http://www.cmegroup.com. Information made available on our website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information about Contract Volume and Average Rate per Contract All amounts regarding contract volume and average rate per contract are for CME Group's listed futures and options on futures contracts unless otherwise noted. Trademark Information CME Group, the Globe logo, CME, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Globex, and E-mini are trademarks of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. CBOT and Chicago Board of Trade are trademarks of Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. NYMEX, New York Mercantile Exchange and ClearPort are trademarks of New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. COMEX is a trademark of Commodity Exchange, Inc. BrokerTec is a trademark of BrokerTec Americas LLC and EBS is a trademark of EBS Group Limited. OSTTRA is a trademark of MarkitSERV Limited. Dow Jones, Dow Jones Industrial Average, S P 500 and S P are service and/or trademarks of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC, Standard Poor's Financial Services LLC and S P Dow Jones Indices LLC, as the case may be, and have been licensed for use by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. (CME). All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS From time to time, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as in other written reports and verbal statements, we discuss our expectations regarding future performance. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "believe," "anticipate," "could," "estimate," "intend," "may," "plan," "expect" and similar expressions, including references to assumptions. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and management's beliefs and assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. We want to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the factors that might affect our performance are: increasing competition by foreign and domestic entities, including increased competition from new entrants into our markets and consolidation of existing entities; our ability to keep pace with rapid technological developments, including our ability to complete the development, implementation and maintenance of the enhanced functionality required by our customers while maintaining reliability and ensuring that such technology is not vulnerable to security risks; our ability to continue introducing competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis, including through our electronic trading capabilities, and our ability to maintain the competitiveness of our existing products and services; our ability to adjust our fixed costs and expenses if our revenues decline; our ability to maintain existing customers at substantially similar trading levels, develop strategic relationships and attract new customers; our ability to expand and globally offer our products and services; changes in regulations, including the impact of any changes in laws or government policies with respect to our products or services or our industry, such as any changes to regulations and policies that require increased financial and operational resources from us or our customers; the costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights and our ability to operate our business without violating the intellectual property rights of others; decreases in revenue from our market data as a result of decreased demand or changes to regulations in various jurisdictions; changes in our rate per contract due to shifts in the mix of the products traded, the trading venue and the mix of customers (whether the customer receives member or non-member fees or participates in one of our various incentive programs) and the impact of our tiered pricing structure; 3 Table of Contents the ability of our credit and liquidity risk management practices to adequately protect us from the credit risks of clearing members and other counterparties, and to satisfy the margin and liquidity requirements associated with the BrokerTec matched principal business; the ability of our compliance and risk management programs to effectively monitor and manage our risks, including our ability to prevent errors and misconduct and protect our infrastructure against security breaches and misappropriation of our intellectual property assets; our dependence on third-party providers and exposure to risk through third parties, including risks related to the performance, reliability and security of technology used by our third-party providers and third-party providers that our clients rely on; volatility in commodity, equity and fixed income prices, and price volatility of financial benchmarks and instruments such as interest rates, equity indices, fixed income instruments and foreign exchange rates; economic, social, political and market conditions, including the volatility of the capital and credit markets and the impact of economic conditions on the trading activity of our current and potential customers; our ability to accommodate increases in contract volume and order transaction traffic and to implement enhancements without failure or degradation of the performance of our trading and clearing systems; our ability to execute our growth strategy and maintain our growth effectively; our ability to manage the risks, control the costs and achieve the synergies associated with our strategy for acquisitions, investments and alliances, including those associated with the performance of our joint ventures with S P Dow Jones (S P Dow Jones Indices LLC) in index services and in trade processing/post trade services (OSTTRA), our primary business and distribution partners actions and our partnership with Google Cloud; variances in earnings on cash accounts and collateral that our clearing house holds for its clients; impact of CME Group pricing and incentive changes; impact of aggregation services and internalization on trade flow and volumes; any negative financial impacts from changes to the terms of intellectual property and index rights; our ability to continue to generate funds and/or manage our indebtedness to allow us to continue to invest in our business; industry, channel partner and customer consolidation and/or concentration; decreases in trading and clearing activity; the imposition of a transaction tax or user fee on futures and options transactions and/or repeal of the 60/40 tax treatment of such transactions; increases in effective tax rates, borrowing costs or changes in tax policy; our ability to maintain our brand and reputation; and the unfavorable resolution of material legal proceedings. For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that might affect our performance, see Item 1A. of this Report beginning on page 16 . 4 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS CME Group enables clients to trade futures, options, cash and over-the-counter (OTC) products, optimize portfolios, and analyze data - empowering market participants worldwide the ability to efficiently manage risk and capture opportunities. CME Group provides primary price discovery and referential pricing information through its market data in a variety of formats, including real time, historical and derived data for customers in both listed and cash products. CME Group also offers industry-leading research and analytics tools to provide customers with market education resources. In addition, it operates one of the world's leading central counterparty clearing providers. GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS CME was founded in 1898 as a not-for-profit corporation. It established its clearing house in 1919, which is operated as part of CME. CME demutualized in 2000, and in 2002 its parent company, CME Group, completed an initial public offering of its Class A common stock (Nasdaq: CME). CME Group subsequently acquired CBOT Holdings, Inc. in 2007, NYMEX Holdings, Inc. (NYMEX and COMEX) in 2008, the Kansas City Board of Trade in 2012 and NEX Group plc (NEX) in 2018. The combination with NEX expanded our global customer base and product offerings through the complementary combination of CME Group s exchange-traded derivative products and NEX s cash and OTC products. It also created a leading, client-centric, global markets company, generating capital efficiencies across futures, cash and OTC products for market participants seeking to lower their cost of trading and better manage risk. Our principal executive offices are located at 20 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606, our telephone number is 312-930-1000 and our website is cmegroup.com . DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange (FX), agricultural commodities, energy and metals. We also offer cash and repo fixed income trading via BrokerTec, and cash and OTC FX trading via EBS. Additionally, we operate one of the world s leading central counterparty clearing providers. Derivatives Exchange Business: Through our derivatives exchanges and clearing house, we believe our customers prefer CME Group's diversity of products, liquidity, price transparency and technological capabilities. Market liquidity - or the ability of a market to absorb the execution of large purchases or sales quickly and efficiently - is key to attracting and retaining customers and contributing to a market's success. Our products provide a means for hedging, speculation and asset allocation related to the risks associated with, among other things, interest rate sensitive instruments, equity ownership, changes in the value of foreign currency and changes in the prices of agricultural, energy and metal commodities. CME's product slate includes agricultural, equities, FX, cryptocurrencies/alternative investments and interest rate products, including Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) futures and options, livestock and cash-settled contracts based on the S P 500, including the E-mini S P 500 ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) contract, Micro E-mini Equity Index contracts, Nasdaq-100, FTSE Russell and Bitcoin and Ether Reference Rate. CBOT's product slate consists of agricultural, equities and interest rate products, including contracts for United States (U.S.) Treasury futures, soybean, corn and wheat and contracts based on the Dow Jones Industrial Index. NYMEX's product slate consists of energy and metals products, including contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil, gasoline and emissions (GEO, N-GEO and C-GEO). COMEX's product slate consists of metals products, including contracts for gold, silver, copper and other base, ferrous and battery metals. We believe the breadth and diversity of our products and services lines are beneficial to our customers and CME Group's overall performance. Our asset classes contain products designed to address differing risk management needs, and customers are able to manage risks and achieve operational and capital efficiencies by accessing our diverse products through our platforms and our clearing house. CME Group products are traded primarily through CME Globex, as well as by open outcry in Chicago for SOFR options (and previously, Eurodollar options) and through privately negotiated transactions. We strive to provide the most flexible and scalable platforms to support the operational and capacity needs of our business along with the delivery of innovative technology solutions to the marketplace. Our CME Globex electronic trading system operates our central limit order book markets and is available on a global basis nearly 24 hours a day throughout the trading week. The CME Globex platform is accessible through a wide variety of vendor-provided and custom-built trading systems that benefit from our open application programming interface approach. For electronic and privately negotiated markets, we offer brokers and customers the CME Direct platform for arranging, executing, recording and risk-managing trades across all six major asset classes. We also provide the functionality to connect to CME Direct on a mobile device through our CME Direct Mobile application with full trading and on-the-go order management capabilities. 5 Table of Contents Together, our platforms offer: certainty of execution; extensive capabilities to facilitate complex and demanding trading; direct market access; open access, price transparency and anonymity; convenience and efficiency; connectivity through highly secure, resilient and low-latency network options; access to market data; and global distribution, including connectivity through high-speed international telecommunications hubs in key financial centers or order routing to our global partner exchanges. We maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities designed to provide nearly continuous availability of our markets in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We also maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events. The customer base of our derivatives exchanges includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers, governments and central banks. Customers may be members of one or more of our exchanges. Rights to directly access our derivatives markets will depend upon the nature of the customer, such as whether the entity or individual is a member of one of our exchanges or has executed an agreement with us for direct access. U.S. trading rights and privileges are exchange-specific. Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members. Membership on one of our derivatives exchanges also enables a customer to trade specific products at lower fees. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections. In 2023 , 84% of our contract volume was from trades by our members. CME Clearing Business: Through our clearing house, we provide clearing and settlement services for a broad range of exchange-traded futures and options on futures contracts and OTC derivatives. Our integrated clearing function is designed to ensure the safety and the soundness of our markets by serving as the counterparty to every trade, becoming the buyer to each seller and the seller to each buyer, and limiting counterparty credit risk. CME Clearing marks open positions to market at least twice a trading day, requiring payments from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and making payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select cleared-only markets, positions are marked-to-market daily, with the capacity to mark-to-market more frequently as market conditions warrant. The CME ClearPort front-end system provides access to our flexible clearing services over multiple asset classes. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represents charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. No firm represented at least 10% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for 2023. In the event a clearing firm were to withdraw, our experience indicates that the customer portion of the firm's trading activity would likely transfer to one or more other clearing firms of the exchange. Cash Markets Business: Our cash markets business is comprised of BrokerTec and operated on CME Globex EBS. Certain BrokerTec products are cleared at third-party clearing houses. BrokerTec and EBS offer anonymous and disclosed trading venues, offering clients multiple execution and distribution options and the benefit of an established and far-reaching distribution network of liquidity providers and consumers. BrokerTec operates global electronic trading for fixed income products, with a leading position in cash U.S. Treasuries, E.U. and U.S. repo fixed income instruments and European Government Bonds. It facilitates trading for banks and non-bank professional trading firms. The BrokerTec Central Limit Order Book is a dealer-to-dealer electronic trading platform operated on CME Globex. BrokerTec Quote is a Request For Quote platform provided on third party technology, that offers a dealer-to-client trading solution for the European, U.K. and U.S. government repo markets. BrokerTec Stream is a relationship-based trading platform offering U.S. Treasury instruments. EBS provides for the trading of global FX products across major and emerging market currencies and Spot Precious Metals. EBS Market is a Central Limit Order Book electronic trading platform for spot FX, Spot Precious Metals and NDFs. EBS Direct is a relationship-based trading platform offering spot FX, Spot Precious Metals (and FX forwards and FX swaps until the scheduled cessation of that business in April 2024). Market Data Business: We offer a variety of market data services through industry-leading market data platforms and third-party distribution partners, which are designed to meet the risk-management, trading, investment and business needs of our global client base. As such, we provide proprietary real-time and historical market data related to CME Group s deeply liquid exchanges and cash markets businesses. We further offer derived cash markets pricing, third-party and alternative data sets, as 6 Table of Contents well as a wide range of analytic tools. As customers continue to leverage cloud technology to improve and evolve their businesses, CME Group has taken a leading role by becoming the first derivatives marketplace to provide live market data natively in the cloud with the launch of our cloud connect capabilities on the Google Cloud Platform. CME Group is also the distributor of leading benchmark equity and commodity indices on behalf of third parties, as well as a distributor and licensor of our own proprietary benchmarks and indices, including CME Term SOFR Reference Rates (CME Term SOFR), which are designed to adhere to the IOSCO Principles for Financial Benchmarks and are administered by our U.K. regulated subsidiary, CME Benchmark Administration Limited. Our Strategic Initiatives The following is a description of our strategic initiatives: Maximize Futures and Options Growth Globally We continue to focus on driving growth and new customer acquisition by expanding, innovating and scaling our core offerings, and increasing participation from non-U.S. customers. We do this by optimizing our global sales team, cross-selling certain products, expanding the strength of our existing benchmark products, launching new products and services, strengthening our existing product and service offerings, securing intellectual property rights to new products, enhancing our relationships and broadening our base of distribution partners, and deepening open interest in our core futures and options offerings. We have further focused on building upon cloud-based data distribution capabilities as a more flexible and potentially cost-effective means of providing data to our clients. In 2023, CME Group futures and options had a record average daily volume of 24.4 million contracts , with a volume record in our interest rates asset class for the second consecutive year. It was also a year of volume records for multiple products, including Ultra 10 Year Treasury Note futures, SOFR futures, Bitcoin futures and a record number of contracts executed via Basis Trade at Index Close. We continue to expand and deepen our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world the most broad and diversified portfolio of benchmark products. Some of our products introduced over the past two years include: CBL Core Global Emissions Offset (C-GEO) Futures (2022) 20-year U.S. Treasury Bond Futures (2022) Micro Bitcoin and Ether Options (2022) Aluminum Options (2022) Micro WTI Options (2022) Six new E-mini sector index Futures (2022) Euro-denominated Bitcoin and Ether Futures (2022) Ether Options (2022) Ten event contracts linked to our global benchmarks (2022) TBA futures for Mortgage-backed Securities (2022) Euro Short-Term Rate ( STR) Futures (2022) Additional Cryptocurrency Reference Rates and Real-Time Indices (2022 and 2023) Event contracts on Bitcoin Futures (2023) Micro E-mini S P MidCap 400 and Micro E-mini S P SmallCap 600 Futures (2023) Offshore Renminbi Options (2023) Lithium Carbonate Futures (2023) Ether/Bitcoin Ratio Futures (2023) T-Bill Futures (2023) Options on Micro Gold Futures (2023) Cobalt Hydroxide Futures (2023) Micro Henry Hub Futures and Options (2023) Additional short-term Options on U.S. Treasury Futures (2023) In addition to the individual product launches noted above, we have completed many product extensions across our asset classes, including short-dated options products (Monday options on U.S. Treasury Futures, Monday and Wednesday options on 7 Table of Contents WTI Crude Oil, Tuesday and Thursday options on E-mini Russell 2000, and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday options on Micro E-mini Nasdaq-100 and S P 500). We continue to expand and deepen our customer base worldwide and offer customers around the world with the most broad and diversified portfolio of benchmark products. We believe we have a significant opportunity to expand the participation of our non-U.S. customer base in our markets. Our penetration of these markets lags our development in the U.S., and we believe that there is room for significant growth and development of these financial markets. In 2023, approximate ly 30% of our electronic futures and options volume was from transactions reported as outside the U.S. and approximately 54% of our market data revenue was derived from outside the U.S. We also achieved 13% growth in trading volume during European trading hours and 11% growth during Latin America trading hours in 2023 compared to 2022. CME Group continues to introduce tools which assist our clients in managing their risks. The FX and Metals Market Profile Tools on Quant Analytics offer simple, but effective methods for clients to compare and contrast our leading FX and metals products and liquidity pools side-by-side, which in turn enables clients to analyze their opportunity to minimize costs and achieve best execution by accessing highly complementary liquidity pools across cash and futures markets. We expect to continue to expand this Quant Analytics suite in the future as well. Our CME Liquidity Tool enables market participants to analyze liquidity across CME Group products during U.S., London or Singapore trading hours and covers 37 products to meet customer demand for our growing product suite. CME Group Volatility Indexes (CVOL) comprises a total o f 42 ind exes, including 7 unique broad-based benchmarks such as the Treasury Volatility Index and Commodity Volatility Index. Our real-time streaming versions of the CVOL indexes provide a representative measure of the market expectation of 30-day forward risk, comprising both end of day and live streaming values. We have increased our customer base and continue to target cross-asset opportunities across client segments and across cash and futures platforms, driving global sales and generating new client participation across all regions. We have a long history of providing customer value and responsiveness and believe our products and services position us to help our customers adapt to and comply with new regulations, while enabling them to efficiently manage their risks. We have a broad distribution network comprised of a combination of internal and external channels and proprietary front-end capabilities. In late 2023, we announced the launch of our new CME FX Spot+ as another tool for our customers to increase access, transparency and trading opportunities across spot FX and FX futures markets. CME FX Spot+ an all-to-all spot FX marketplace that will connect liquidity between two trading environments, whereby spot FX participants will have expanded access to CME FX futures liquidity in OTC spot terms within an open, transparent, central limit order book environment, while FX futures market users will see expanded access to OTC FX liquidity. We are expecting to start client testing in the second half of 2024. Diversify our Business and Revenue - Our acquisition of NEX strengthened our role in global financial markets infrastructure and information services, adding complementary cash and OTC businesses and scale to our listed interest rate and FX products, while broadening our global client base. We are positioned to take direct advantage of growth in treasury issuance, unwinding of the Fed s balance sheet, liquid treasury holdings and the trading of treasury instruments, as well as growing repo activity in the U.S. and Europe. The transaction expanded CME Group s position in the large, highly competitive and highly fragmented global FX marketplace, offering both order book trading and relationship-based trading solutions for customers. The acquisition added strength in underlying customer marketplaces, especially around regional bank customers and other market participants outside of North America and expanded our market data solutions beyond futures and options into cash and OTC offerings. CME Group is well-positioned to capitalize on its ability to license CME Term SOFR, administered by our subsidiary, CME Group Benchmark Administration Limited. CME Term SOFR is the only SOFR rate endorsed by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC) and the Federal Reserve Board has formally endorsed the forward-looking term rates based on SOFR . Through the end of 2023, we have licensed the CME Term SOFR benchmark to 2,975 firms and over 11,000 licensees in 100 countries. In 2010, CME Group acquired a majority stake in Dow Jones Indexes, which was combined with S P s index business in 2012 to form S P Dow Jones Indices LLC, of which CME Group now has a 27% ownership stake. S P Dow Jones Indices LLC combines the world class capabilities of the S P and Dow Jones Indices, and is a significant player in passive investing, including the exchange-traded fund (ETF) industry value chain. As part of the joint venture, we acquired a long-term, ownership-linked, exclusive license to list futures and options based on the S P 500 Index and certain other S P indices. We also act as the joint venture's licensing agent and distribution services provider. In 2022, we invested $410.0 million in this joint venture to fund our portion of the acquisition of the IHS Markit indices business, which includes leading fixed income and credit indices, such as iBoxx, iTraxx and CDX. In 2021, CME Group and IHS Markit (later acquired by S P Global) established a 50/50 joint venture, OSTTRA. We contributed to OSTTRA our trade processing/post-trade businesses (Traiana, TriOptima and Reset) and IHS Markit contributed 8 Table of Contents its MarkitSERV business. OSTTRA serves as the leading optimization business and provider of progressive post-trade solutions for the global OTC markets across interest rate, FX, equity and credit asset classes. Deliver Unparalleled Customer Efficiencies and Operational Excellence - With changing regulatory requirements for many of our customers, including additional margin requirements on uncleared trades, and the need for greater efficiencies, we have added tools to enable customers to manage clearing positions in our markets in an efficient manner. With the ongoing implementation of regulatory reform in the United States and in Europe, along with global implementation of Basel III capital requirements on financial institutions, we expect centralized clearing and capital efficiencies to continue to be important for our global client base. We provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to market