Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 27 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 28 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 28 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 29 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 56 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 56 Item 9B. Other Information 58 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11. Executive Compensation 58 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 58 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 58 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 59 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 61 Signatures 62 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, think, estimate, seek, expect, predict, could, project, potential and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. T hese forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in this report under the heading Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, so you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements, including: risks of food safety and food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food; risks associated with our reliance on certain information technology systems and potential failures or interruptions; privacy and cyber security risks related to our acceptance of electronic payments or electronic processing of confidential customer or employee information; the impact of competition, including from sources outside the restaurant industry; the increasingly competitive labor market and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees, restaurant design and construction, or the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; our ability to achieve our planned growth, such as the availability of suitable new restaurant sites; and increases in ingredient and other operating costs due to our Food With Integrity philosophy, tariffs or trade restrictions and supply shortages. We are including this Cautionary Note to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or other developments, except as required by applicable laws and regulations. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries ( Chipotle , we , us , or our ) operates Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants, which feature a relevant menu of burritos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla), tacos, and salads. We are cultivating a better world by serving responsibly sourced, classically cooked, real food with wholesome ingredients without artificial colors, flavors or preservatives. We are passionate about providing a great guest experience and making our food more accessible to everyone while continuing to be a brand with a demonstrated purpose. Steve Ells, founder and executive chairman, first opened Chipotle with a single restaurant in Denver, Colorado in 1993. Over 25 years later, our devotion to seeking out the very best ingredients, raised with respect for animals, farmers, and the environment, remains at the core of our commitment to Food With Integrity. As of December 31, 2019, we operated 2,580 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States, 39 international Chipotle restaurants, and three non-Chipotle restaurants. Business Strategy We are a brand with a demonstrated purpose of cultivating a better world. Our mission is to win today while creating a bright future by focusing on five key fundamental strategies: Making the brand more visible and loved; Creating innovation utilizing a stage-gate process; Leveraging our digital-make line to expand access and convenience; Engaging with customers through our loyalty program; And running successful restaurants with a strong culture that provides great food, hospitality, throughput, and economics. Relevant Menu. Our restaurants feature a relevant menu of burritos, burrito bowls, tacos and salads. In preparing our food, we employ classic cooking methods and use stoves and grills, pots and pans, cutting knives and other kitchen utensils, walk-in refrigerators stocked with a variety of fresh ingredients, herbs and spices, and dry goods such as rice. Our restaurants do not have microwaves or freezers. Our proteins include chicken, steak, carnitas (seasoned and braised pork), barbacoa (spicy braised and shredded beef), Sofritas (organic braised tofu) and vegetarian pinto and black beans. We add our rice, which is tossed with lime juice, freshly chopped cilantro, and a pinch of salt, as well as freshly shredded cheese, sour cream, lettuce, and saut ed peppers and onions, to our entrees depending on each guest s request. We use various herbs, spices and seasonings to prepare our meats and vegetables. We also serve tortilla chips that are fried twice a day in each restaurant and seasoned with fresh lime juice and salt, with sides of hand mashed guacamole, salsas, or queso. In addition to sodas, fruit and tea drinks, and organic milk, most of our restaurants also offer a 3 Table of Contents selection of beer and margaritas. Our food is prepared from scratch, some in our restaurants and some with the same fresh ingredients in larger batches in commissaries. Food with Integrity. Serving high quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to ensuring guests enjoy wholesome food at a great value. We respect our environment and insist on preparing, cooking, and serving nutritious food made from natural ingredients and animals that are raised or grown with care. We spend time on farms and in the field to understand where our food comes from and how it is raised. We concentrate on the sourcing of each ingredient, and this has become a cornerstone of our continuous effort to improve the food we serve. Our food is made from ingredients that everyone can both recognize and pronounce. We re all about simple, fresh food without the use of artificial colors or flavors typically found in fast food just genuine real ingredients and their individual, delectable flavors. In all of our Chipotle restaurants, we endeavor to serve only meats that are raised in accordance with criteria we have established in an effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare, and without the use of non-therapeutic antibiotics or added hormones. We brand these meats as Responsibly Raised . One of our primary goals is for all of Chipotle restaurants to serve meats raised to our standards, but we have and expect to continue to face challenges in doing so. For example, some of our restaurants periodically serve conventionally raised chicken or beef due to supply constraints for our Responsibly Raised brand meats or stop serving one or more menu items due to additional supply constraints. When we become aware of such an issue, we clearly and specifically disclose this temporary change on signage in each affected restaurant so that guests can adjust their orders if they choose to do so. We also seek to use responsibly grown produce, by which we mean produce grown by suppliers whose practices conform to our priorities with respect to environmental considerations and employee welfare. Some of the beans we serve are organically grown or grown using conservation tillage methods that improve soil conditions, reduce erosion, and help preserve the environment in which the beans are grown. We call these beans transitional. Some of the other produce items we serve are organically grown as well. In 2019, we increased the percentage of organic cilantro, rice and beans purchased as we continue our commitment to find high quality ingredients. Purchasing and Food Safety Close Relationships with Suppliers. Maintaining the high levels of quality and safety we expect in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Our 23 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality and the suppliers understanding and adherence of our mission. We work closely with our suppliers and seek to develop mutually beneficial long-term relationships with them. We use a mix of forward, fixed, formula and range forward pricing protocols, and our distribution centers purchase within the pricing guidelines and protocols we have established with suppliers. We ve also sought to increase, where practical, the number of suppliers for our ingredients to help mitigate pricing volatility and supply shortages. In addition, we closely monitor industry news, trade tariffs, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices. Certain key ingredients (including beef, pork, chicken, beans, rice, sour cream, cheese, and tortillas) are purchased from a small number of suppliers. Quality Assurance and Food Safety. We are committed to serving safe, high quality food. Our food safety and quality assurance teams work to ensure compliance with our food safety programs and practices, components of which include: supplier interventions (steps to avoid food safety risks before ingredients reach Chipotle); advanced technologies (tools that reduce or eliminate pathogens while maintaining food quality); small grower support and training; enhanced restaurant procedures (protocols for handling ingredients and sanitizing surfaces in our restaurants); food safety certifications; internal and third-party restaurant inspections; and ingredient traceability. 4 Table of Contents These and other food safety practices underscore our commitment to be a leader in food safety while continuing to serve high quality food that our guests love. Our food safety and quality assurance teams establish and monitor our quality and food safety programs and work closely with suppliers to ensure our high standards are met throughout the supply chain. We maintain a limited list of approved suppliers, many of whom are among the top suppliers in the industry. In addition, we have a team approach where our training, operations, culinary, legal and safety, security and risk management departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, preparation, cleanliness, employee health protocols, and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also intended to ensure that we not only continue to comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations, but also establish Chipotle as an industry leader in food safety. To help achieve this goal, we have a Food Safety Advisory Council comprised of some of the nation s foremost food safety authorities. The Food Safety Advisory Council is charged with evaluating our programs, both in practice and implementation, and advising us on ways to elevate our already high standards for food safety. Our food safety and quality assurance team members hold board seats and participate in technical working groups with several associations. This gives us the opportunity to learn and share our knowledge and expertise with other food safety professionals and regulatory agencies. Guest Experience and Operations Serving delicious food, with great service in a safe, quick, clean and happy environment is always our highest priority, and we take pride in making the Chipotle experience exceptional. We invest in training to consistently deliver an outstanding guest experience, and in our facilities to improve the appearance of our restaurants and modernize tools. We are also focused on making progress in throughput and getting our guests quality food quickly. Restaurant Team. We believe creating an excellent guest experience starts with hiring great leaders and creating great teams. Each restaurant typically has a General Manager or Restaurateur (a high-performing general manager), an Apprentice Manager (in a majority of our restaurants), two or three Service Managers, one or two Kitchen Managers and an average of 26 full and part-time crew members, though our busier restaurants tend to have slightly more employees. We generally have two shifts at our restaurants, which simplifies scheduling and provides stability for our employees. In addition to the employees serving our guests at each restaurant, we also have a field support system that includes Field Leaders and Team Directors, as well as Executive Team Directors who report to our Chief Restaurant Officer. Innovation . We are prioritizing the development of technological and other innovations, such as digital/mobile ordering platforms, digital order pick-up lanes we call Chipotlanes , delivery and catering, that allow our guests to engage with us in whatever fashion is most convenient for them. By allowing our guests to order and receive their food in a variety of ways, we believe we can attract more guests and encourage them to choose us more frequently. During 2019, we completed the installation of mobile order pick-up shelves as well as digital make lines in almost all of our restaurants which allows us to fulfill catering or digital/mobile orders without disrupting throughput on our main service line. Additionally, we have enhanced our data capabilities to allow us to better identify individual guests and their unique frequency patterns, and to target our marketing and promotional efforts at the individual level. We are also testing new menu items. We have built a stage-gate process around innovation where we test, learn and iterate, so that when we roll out a new initiative, we are highly confident in the probability of success. Marketing Our marketing programs are designed to increase transactions and grow sales by driving culture, driving a difference, and ultimately driving purchases. Our ultimate marketing mission is to make Chipotle not just a food brand, but also a purpose driven lifestyle brand that is more visible, more engaging, and more relevant. In 2019, we made our brand more visible with culturally relevant marketing campaigns and initiatives. This included the Behind the Foil advertising campaign which showcased our real ingredients, fresh food and the culinary skills of our team members in action. We also launched a new loyalty program, Chipotle Rewards, that currently has more than 8 million members and provides us with customer information that can be used to incent behaviors and engage with our customers on a more personal level. Our marketing efforts this year were elevated by our stage-gate innovation process that identifies and validates new initiatives and menu items in test markets before they are rolled out more widely. We rolled out several successful menu items including our digital only Lifestyle Bowls, which help our guests reach or maintain their health and wellness goals, and carne asada, a premium seasoned steak. We utilize multiple marketing channels, including national television, digital marketing, social media, fundraising, events and sponsorships to make our brand more visible. We have invested and will continue to invest in extensive customer research that will give us insight into our consumers in order to inform our business decisions, media, messaging, and innovation pipeline. 5 Table of Contents Competition The fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience, brand reputation, cleanliness, and ambience of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants, as well as national and regional chains. Many of our competitors offer dine-in, carry-out, online, catering, and delivery services. Among our main competitors are a number of multi-unit, multi-market Mexican food or burrito restaurant concepts, some of which are expanding nationally. In recent years, competition has increased significantly from restaurant formats like ours that serve higher quality food, quickly and at a reasonable price . Moreover, we may also compete with companies outside the fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry. For example, competitive pressures can come from deli sections and in-store caf s of major grocery store chains, including those targeted at customers who seek higher-quality food, as well as from convenience stores, cafeterias, and other dining outlets. Meal kit delivery companies and other eat-at-home options also present some degree of competition for our restaurants. Competition has made it more challenging to maintain or increase the frequency of customer visits, however we believe that we can differentiate ourselves with our fresh ingredients and our purpose of cultivating a better world. Restaurant Site Selection We believe restaurant site selection is critical to our long-term success and growth strategy. As a result, we devote substantial time and effort to carefully evaluate each potential new restaurant location. Our site selection process is led by our internal team of real estate managers and includes external real estate brokers with expertise in specific markets, as well as support from an internal real estate strategy and research group. We thoroughly assess the surrounding trade area, demographic and business information within that area, and available information on competitors and other restaurants. Based on this analysis, including utilization of predictive modeling using proprietary formulas, we determine projected sales and targeted return on investment for each potential restaurant site. We have been successful in a number of different types of locations, such as in -line or end-cap locations in strip or power centers, in regional malls and downtown business districts, free-standing buildings, food courts, outlet centers, airports, military bases and train stations. Other Restaurant Concepts Although in 2020 our focus will remain on thoughtfully growing the Chipotle brand, we believe that the fundamental principles on which our restaurants are based sourcing better ingredients, preparing them using classic techniques in front of our guests, and serving them in an interactive format with great teams dedicated to providing an excellent dining experience can be adapted to cuisines other than the food served at Chipotle. We have invested in innovative concepts such as Pizzeria Locale, a fast-casual pizza restaurant that has three restaurants in Denver, Colorado. Information Systems and Cyber Security We use a variety of applications and systems to securely manage the flow of information within each of our restaurants and centralized corporate infrastructure. The services available within our systems and applications include restaurant operations, supply chain, inventory, scheduling, training, human capital management, financial tools, and data protection services. Our digital ordering system allows guests to place orders online or through our mobile app and enables delivery by third-party services with which we have entered into delivery agreements. We also continue to modernize and make investments in our information technology networks and infrastructure, specifically in our physical and technological security measures to anticipate cyber-attacks in order to combat breaches, as well as provide improved control, security and scalability. Government Regulation and Environmental Matters We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern aspects of our business operations, including: employment practices, such as wage and hour and fair work week regulations, requirements to provide meal and rest periods, family leave mandates, workplace safety and accommodations to certain employees, citizenship or work authorization requirements, insurance and workers compensation rules, and anti-discrimination and anti-harassment laws; privacy and data security, laws governing the collection, maintenance and use of information regarding employees and guests and consumer credit protection and fraud; compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas; 6 Table of Contents food safety and nutrition, including nutritional menu labeling nutrition and advertising practices; environmental practices, including concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, and regulations restricting the use of straws, utensils and the types of packaging we can use in our restaurants; and licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and other agencies. Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had about 83,000 employees, including about 6,000 salaried employees and about 77,000 hourly employees. None of our employees are unionized or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Seasonality Seasonal factors influencing our business are described under the heading Quarterly Financial Data/Seasonality in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks Chipotle, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Food With Integrity, Responsibly Raised, Chipotle Rewards, and a number of other marks and related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of additional marks in the U.S. as well. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for Chipotle and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for Chipotle Mexican Grill, Chipotle and a number of other marks in additional countries. We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress and have registered elements of our restaurant design for trade dress protection in the U.S. as well. From time to time we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Available Information We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com in which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Conduct is also available in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 7 Table of Contents