Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 19 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Reserved 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 33 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 3 1, 2023 and 2022 35 Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 36 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 37 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 38 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 39 Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 39 Note 2 Supplemental Balance Sheet Information 45 Note 3 Revenue Recognition 46 Note 4 Fair Value Measurements 47 Note 5 Equity Investments 49 Note 6 Income Taxes 49 Note 7 Shareholders Equity 52 Note 8 Stock-Based Compensation and Employee Benefit Plans 52 Note 9 Leases 56 Note 10 Earnings Per Share 57 Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies 57 Note 12 Debt 57 Note 13 Related Party Transactions 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 61 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 61 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 61 Item 11. Executive Compensation 62 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 62 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 62 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 62 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 63 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 65 Signatures 66 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projected cash from operations, expected capital expenditures for 2024 and all other statements that are not historical facts. We use words such as may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, think, estimate, seek, expect, predict, could, project, potential , goal and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in this report under the heading Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, so you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements, including: increasing wage inflation and the competitive labor market, including as a result of regulations such as California AB 1228, which impacts our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and has resulted in occasional staffing shortages; increases in ingredient and other operating costs and the inability of our third-party suppliers and business partners to fulfill their responsibilities and commitments due to inflation, global conflicts, climate change, our Food with Integrity philosophy, tariffs or trade restrictions and supply shortages; increasing supply costs (including beef, tortillas, queso, salsa, beans and rice); risks of food safety incidents and food-borne illnesses; risks associated with our reliance on certain information technology systems operated by us or by third parties and potential failures, outages or interruptions; privacy and cybersecurity risks, including risk of breaches, unauthorized access, theft, modification, destruction or ransom of guest or employee personal or confidential information stored on our network or the network of third-party providers; the impact of competition, including from sources outside the restaurant industry; the competitive labor market and changes in the availability and cost of labor and the impact of any union organizing efforts and our responses to such efforts; the financial impact of increasing our average hourly wage; the impact of federal, state or local government regulations relating to our employees, employment practices, restaurant design and construction, and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; our ability to achieve our planned growth, such as the costs and availability of suitable new restaurant sites and the equipment needed to fully outfit new restaurants, construction materials and contractors and the expected costs to accelerate our international expansion through franchise restaurants in the Middle East; the uncertainty of our ability to achieve expected levels of comparable restaurant sales due to factors such as changes in guests' perceptions of our brand, including as a result of actual or rumored food safety concerns or other negative publicity, decreased overall consumer spending, including as a result of high inflation, mass layoffs, fears of possible recession and higher energy costs, or the inability to increase menu prices or realize the benefits of menu price increases; risks associated with our digital business, including risks arising from our reliance on third party delivery services; and risks relating to litigation, including possible governmental actions and potential class action litigation related to food safety incidents, cybersecurity incidents, employment or privacy laws, advertising claims or other matters. We are including this Cautionary Note to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or other developments, except as required by applicable laws and regulations. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries ( Chipotle, we, us, or our ) owns and operates Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants, which feature a relevant menu of burritos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla), quesadillas, tacos, and salads. We strive to cultivate a better world by serving responsibly sourced, classically cooked, real food with wholesome ingredients and without artificial colors, flavors or preservatives. We are passionate about providing a great guest experience and making our food more accessible to everyone while continuing to be a brand with a demonstrated purpose. Our first Chipotle restaurant opened in Denver, Colorado in 1993. Over 30 years later, our devotion to seeking out high-quality ingredients, raised with respect for animals, farmers, and the environment, remains at the core of our commitment to Food with Integrity. As of December 31, 2023, we owned and operated 3,371 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States ( U.S. ) and 66 international Chipotle restaurants. We manage our operations based on eight regions and aggregate our operations to one reportable segment. Our revenue is derived from sales by our restaurants. 3 Table of Contents Business Strategy We are a brand with a demonstrated purpose of Cultivating a Better World. Our mission is to win today while we grow our future by focusing on five key fundamental strategies: Sustaining world class people leadership by developing and retaining diverse talent at every level ; Running successful restaurants with a people accountable culture that provides great Food with Integrity while delivering exceptional in-restaurant and digital experiences ; Making the brand visible, relevant, and loved to improve overall guest engagement; Amplifying technology and innovation to drive growth and productivity at our restaurants, support centers and in our supply chain; and Expanding access and convenience by accelerating new restaurant openings in North America and internationally. Food with Integrity Serving high-quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to ensuring guests enjoy wholesome food at a great value. In our Chipotle restaurants, we strive to serve only meats that are raised in accordance with criteria we have established in an effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare, and without the use of non-therapeutic antibiotics or added growth hormones. We brand these meats as Responsibly Raised . We also seek to use responsibly grown produce, by which we mean produce grown by suppliers whose practices conform to our Food with Integrity standards and our priorities with respect to environmental considerations and employee welfare. For more information about our sustainability and animal welfare initiatives, see our biennial Sustainability Report and interim Update Report on our website www.chipotle.com/sustainability. Purchasing Maintaining the high levels of quality and safety we demand in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Our 26 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality, price, availability, and the suppliers understanding of and adherence to our mission and Food with Integrity standards. We have also sought to increase, where practical, the number of suppliers for our ingredients to help mitigate pricing volatility and reduce our reliance on one or several suppliers, which could create supply shortages. In addition, we closely monitor industry news, trade tariffs, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices or available supply. Certain key ingredients ( beef, tomatoes, tortillas and adobo ) are purchased from a small number of suppliers. Quality Assurance and Food Safety We are committed to serving only safe, high-quality food. Our food safety and quality assurance teams work to ensure compliance with our food safety programs and practices, components of which include: natural inhibitors (to prevent microbial growth in ingredients); advanced technologies (tools that reduce or eliminate pathogens while maintaining food quality); enhanced restaurant procedures (protocols for handling ingredients and sanitizing surfaces in our restaurants); food safety certifications; internal and third-party restaurant inspections; small grower support during on-site audits; supplier interventions (steps to mitigate food safety risks before ingredients reach Chipotle); and ingredient traceability. These and other food safety practices underscore our commitment to be a leader in food safety while continuing to serve high-quality food that our guests love. Our food safety and quality assurance teams establish and monitor our quality and food safety programs and work closely with suppliers to ensure our high standards are met throughout the supply chain. We maintain a limited list of approved suppliers , many of whom are among the top suppliers in the industry. In addition, we have a team approach where our training, operations, culinary, legal and restaurant food safety and quality assurance departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, food preparation, restaurant cleanliness, employee health protocols, and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also intended to ensure that we not only continue to comply with applicable national, federal, state and local food safety regulations, but also establish Chipotle as an industry leader in food safety. To help achieve this goal, we have a Food Safety Advisory Council comprised of some of the nation s foremost food safety authorities. The Food Safety Advisory Council is charged with evaluating our programs and advising us on ways to elevate our already high standards for food safety. Our food safety and quality assurance team members hold board seats and participate in technical working groups with several associations. This gives us the opportunity to learn and share our knowledge and expertise with other food safety professionals and regulatory agencies. 4 Table of Contents Digital Business Our digital platform continues to be a strategic driver of our growth. In recent years, we have significantly upgraded our capabilities by digitizing our restaurant kitchens, expanding our partnerships with third-party delivery services and building more Chipotlanes, which is our drive through format for customer pick-up of digital orders. Digital sales represent food and beverage revenue generated through the Chipotle website, Chipotle app or third-party delivery aggregators and include revenue deferrals associated with Chipotle Rewards. Digital sales represented 37.4% of food and beverage revenue in 2023, compared to 39.4% of food and beverage revenue in 2022. We have made digital ordering convenient with enhancements to the Chipotle app and website, such as customization, contactless delivery, and group ordering and we have improved the overall guest experience within the app with the inclusion of order readiness messaging, wrong location detection and reminders to scan for points. Human Capital At Chipotle, our vision is to cultivate an environment where our employees can thrive, pursue their passion and become lifelong leaders. We believe in investing and supporting our people because they are our most important asset and give us a competitive advantage in our business. As of December 3 1, 2023, Chipotle employed 116,068 people worldwide and 1,088 contract workers. Of our employees, 114,042 worked in the United States , and 2,026 worked internationally across Canada, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Within the U.S., 112,572 employees worked in our restaurants, and 1,470 in our Restaurant Support Centers. There were no union petitions or campaigns in 2023. We continue to bargain with the one restaurant that voted in 2022 to form a union, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. We also believe our efforts to manage our workforce have been effective, as evidenced by a strong culture and our employees demonstrated commitment to living our purpose and values. Talent Acquisition We continue to invest heavily in recruiting top talent and ensuring appropriate staffing levels are maintained, especially during our two peak hiring seasons (spring and fall). We focus on new and innovative ways to attract and engage talent for our restaurants, which includes marketing campaigns that build on our documentary-style television spots, featuring unscripted testimonials from team members about the impact Chipotle has had on their lives. We invest in advertising on social media and highlight growth opportunities and the possible trajectory of achieving six-figure total compensation in approximately three years. Additionally, we now offer a formal Summer Internship Program to invest in students while creating opportunities for our restaurant employees to further gain exposure to our Restaurant Support Centers. Diversity, Equity Inclusion Maintaining a diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment is critical to our success as a business. As of December 31, 2023, U.S.-based employee diversity statistics were as follows: 5 Table of Contents Our most recent EEO-1 consolidated report is posted on the Investors page of our website at www.ir.chipotle.com under Corporate Governance Human Capital Information and additional details about the demographics of our employee population is included in our biennial Sustainability Report and interim Update Report on our website www.chipotle.com/sustainability . Notably, our rate of internal promotions for 2023 was similar within our employee populations, with approximately 50% of promoted employees identifying as female and 39% of promoted employees identifying as Hispanic or Latino. We have undertaken several actions to promote diverse, equitable and inclusive work environments. We created a consistent and structured candidate interview process with new interview guides. This ensures quality, speed and equitable hiring practices are followed throughout internal and external candidate interviews. We also launched an internal job board across multiple communication channels to our employees to provide increased visibility and access to internal opportunities. Since December 2021, we have participated in Management Leadership for Tomorrow s Black Equity at Work Certification Program, which establishes a comprehensive aggregate measurement system and provides a rigorous, results-oriented approach that accelerates progress toward Black equity internally, amongst our employees, and externally by supporting Black equity within our business partners and in the communities where we operate. In early 2023, we engaged an independent third-party consultant to conduct a Talent Management Equity Audit to identify places in our talent management cycle where we may need to eliminate bias and/or create more equitable policies, practices, and procedures; identify potential blockers and new opportunities to create and sustain equity in talent management; and identify key strengths and pockets of risk. The consultant concluded that Chipotle has a robust set of processes, practices and policies to enable equitable talent recruiting, development and retention throughout the company and identified opportunities to strengthen Chipotle s existing practices. See the Investors page of our website at www.ir.chipotle.com under Corporate Governance Human Capital Information for additional details. We have a holistic approach to pay equity to ensure consistent and equitable treatment among our employees. We retain an independent third-party compensation consultant each year to conduct a pay equity analysis of our U.S. and Canadian workforce, including factors of pay (e.g., grade level, tenure in role, most recent promotion) and external market conditions (e.g., geographic location), to ensure consistency and equitable treatment among our employees. In 2023, our review included 99% of our U.S. and Canadian employee population, excluding only approximately 50 of our most senior management employees. The analysis identified small, isolated pay gaps for certain segments of the population, and we subsequently made pay adjustments to close those gaps. Since there are not many common roles among our 50 most senior executives, we consider both internal equity by level as well as individualized market data to help ensure we maintain pay equity among this group. 6 Table of Contents Talent Development We provide high-quality growth and development opportunities to retain top talent and support internal promotions. In 2023, we had more than 24,000 internal promotions, including 100% of U.S. based Regional Vice Presidents, 87% of Team Directors, and 87% of Field Leaders. To develop our employees, we provide the following programs: Leadership Evolution and Development: Focuses on preparing a cross-functional cohort of mid-level managers for the future of work and leadership. During the 9-month program, participants learn the critical capabilities of leading oneself, leading others, and leading the business with topics designed to stretch capabilities and improve decision-making skills. Cultivate University: A four-day immersive leadership experience designed to upskill our new multi-unit restaurant leaders to excel in their role and execute on their Top 5 KPIs. Participants are introduced to a variety of leadership models as well as operational tools to support them in leading effective teams and driving results in their restaurants. General Manager Upskilling: Trains our restaurant leaders in fundamental soft skills to help bolster their leadership acumen so that they can better lead their teams and create an exceptional guest experience. Executive Development: Focuses on developing high potential Team Directors in areas such as leadership, marketing, business and finance, data and analytics, ESG and hospitality, so they gain an in-depth understanding of various functions within the company. Teach Taste Live seminars: Offers lunch and learn sessions on leadership topics such as effective communication, emotional intelligence, and building a culture of accountability to provide on-going professional development for employees at our Restaurant Support Centers. Each course introduces a new leadership skill and offers best practices and actionable tools to continue developing the top talent that supports our field operations. Development courses and online programs that focus on creating a culture of belonging. Online executive coaching for mid- and senior-level leaders throughout the organization. Succession Planning: We utilize talent calibrations to identify a diverse pipeline of emerging leaders and define appropriate development programs. Total Rewards The financial, physical, and mental wellness of our employees remains our top priority and we believe we have compelling compensation packages and incentive programs, and a robust suite of benefit offerings that enable us to engage current team members and attract new team members: We have made substantial investments in our compensation packages, including competitive wages and industry leading incentive programs, such as our annual and quarterly bonus programs, which allow us to attract and retain the top talent in the industry. We offer a Debt-Free Degree program that provides Chipotle employees access to nearly 100 degrees at 10 universities, completely tuition debt free. We support Career Certificates, which further enhances our Tuition Assistance benefits by providing on-demand certificate programs to help Chipotle team members advance their careers in as little as eight weeks. In 2023, we launched a program that provides our medically enrolled employees and their families with a Health Pro who can help them navigate the complex healthcare environment, helping them understand how their health benefits cover their care, how to save money, as well as get expert, high-quality medical care. In 2023, we also offered personalized mental health assistance to all Chipotle employees and their family members with support available 24/7 via in-person, phone, or virtual visits with a licensed counselor. Starting in 2024, we are partnering with SoFi to offer student loan payment matching programs via our 401(k)-retirement program. This, in addition to a credit optimization service, will help bolster our employees financial well-being. Culture and Engagement Giving employees the opportunity to provide anonymous feedback is a key part of our employee engagement strategy, which positively contributes to our culture. This begins with soliciting feedback regarding onboarding. As of December 31, 2023, 9 in 10 respondents in our restaurants reported a favorable onboarding experience. For our employees in field support organizations and Restaurant Support Centers, nearly 95% of respondents had a favorable view of their onboarding. Results of our surveys are shared with business partners and senior leaders, who continuously work to improve the experience for all employees. To encourage a collaborative working culture between our Restaurant Support Centers and restaurant operations, we created an Operations Council comprised of employees from restaurant and field leadership, operations, and our business partners, who work together to share feedback and implement new projects collaboratively. 7 Table of Contents Additionally, to promote an engaged culture, we respond to employees quickly via our Employee Service Center ( ESC ). The ESC is available seven days a week to resolve employee questions about things like restaurant health and safety, compliance, benefits, payroll, etc. We also maintain a confidential Respectful Workplace Hotline that allows employees to anonymously report concerns like sexual harassment, discrimination, and retaliation. Government Regulation and Environmental Matters We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern aspects of our business operations. While costs associated with compliance with laws and regulations have increased as the number and scope of regulation have increased, the total costs incurred have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. See Risk Factors in Item 1A for discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations applicable to our business. Seasonality Seasonal factors influencing our business are described under the heading Quarterly Financial Data/Seasonality in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Competition The fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste , price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience, brand reputation, cleanliness, and ambience of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants, as well as national and regional chains. Competition from food delivery services, which offer meals from a wide variety of restaurants, also has increased in recent years and is expected to continue to increase. Many of our competitors also offer dine-in, carry-out, online, catering, and delivery services. Among our main competitors are restaurant formats that claim to serve higher quality ingredients without artificial flavors, colors and preservatives, and that serve food quickly and at a reasonable price. Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks Chipotle, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Food with Integrity, Responsibly Raised, Chipotle Rewards, and a number of other marks and related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of additional marks in the U.S. as well. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for Chipotle and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union, the Middle East and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for Chipotle Mexican Grill, Chipotle and a number of other marks in additional countries. We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress and have registered elements of our restaurant design for trade dress protection in the U.S. as well. From time to time, we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Available Information We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com, on which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Ethics and our Supplier Code of Conduct also are available in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of the websites mentioned above and elsewhere in this report are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 8 Table of Contents