Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Reserved 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk 29 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 30 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 32 Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 33 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 34 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 35 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 36 Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 36 Note 2 Supplemental Balance Sheet Information 42 Note 3 Revenue Recognition 43 Note 4 Fair Value of Financial Instruments 43 Note 5 Corporate Restructuring Costs 45 Note 6 Income Taxes 45 Note 7 Shareholders Equity 47 Note 8 Stock-Based Compensation 48 Note 9 Employee Benefit Plans 50 Note 10 Leases 51 Note 11 Earnings Per Share 53 Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies 53 Note 13 Debt 54 Note 14 Related Party Transactions 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 54 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 54 Item 9B. Other Information 57 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 57 Item 11. Executive Compensation 57 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 57 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 57 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 57 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 58 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 60 Signatures 61 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including projected cash from operations, expected capital expenditures for 2022 and all other statements that are not historical facts. We use words such as may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, think, estimate, seek, expect, predict, could, project, potential and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements. T hese forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Our actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in this report under the heading Risk Factors and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, so you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements, including: the potential future impact of COVID-19 on our results of operations, including supply chain disruptions and difficulties in acquiring restaurant equipment; risks of food safety and food-borne illnesses and other health concerns about our food; risks associated with our reliance on certain information technology systems and potential failures or interruptions; privacy and cyber security risks related to our acceptance of electronic payments or electronic processing of confidential customer or employee information; the impact of competition, including from sources outside the restaurant industry; the increasingly competitive labor market and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, which has resulted in staffing shortages; the impact of federal, state and local government regulations relating to our employees, including new predictive scheduling and just cause legislation; restaurant design and construction, and the sale of food or alcoholic beverages; our ability to achieve our planned growth, such as the availability of suitable new restaurant sites; and increases in ingredient and other operating costs due to our Food With Integrity philosophy, tariffs or trade restrictions and supply shortages. We are including this Cautionary Note to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or other developments, except as required by applicable laws and regulations. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries ( Chipotle, we, us, or our ) owns and operates Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants, which feature a relevant menu of burritos, burrito bowls (a burrito without the tortilla), quesadillas, tacos, and salads. We strive to cultivate a better world by serving responsibly sourced, classically cooked, real food with wholesome ingredients and without artificial colors, flavors or preservatives. We are passionate about providing a great guest experience and making our food more accessible to everyone while continuing to be a brand with a demonstrated purpose. Our first Chipotle restaurant opened in Denver, Colorado in 1993. Over 25 years later, our devotion to seeking out high-quality ingredients, raised with respect for animals, farmers, and the environment, remains at the core of our commitment to Food With Integrity. As of December 31, 2021, we owned and operated 2,918 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States, 44 international Chipotle restaurants, and four non-Chipotle restaurants. We manage our operations based on eight regions and have aggregated our operations to one reportable segment. Our revenue is derived from sales by company-owned restaurants. Business Strategy We are a brand with a demonstrated purpose of cultivating a better world. Our mission is to win today while creating a bright future by focusing on five key fundamental strategies: Running successful restaurants with a people accountable culture that provides great food with integrity while delivering exceptional in-restaurant and digital experiences; Sustaining world class people leadership by developing and retaining diverse talent at every level; Making the brand visible, relevant, and loved to improve overall guest engagement; Amplifying technology and innovation to drive digital growth and productivity at our restaurants and support centers; And expanding access and convenience by accelerating new restaurant openings. 3 Table of Contents Food with Integrity Serving high quality food while still charging reasonable prices is critical to ensuring guests enjoy wholesome food at a great value. In our Chipotle restaurants, we endeavor to serve only meats that are raised in accordance with criteria we have established in an effort to improve sustainability and promote animal welfare, and without the use of non-therapeutic antibiotics or added growth hormones. We brand these meats as Responsibly Raised . We also seek to use responsibly grown produce, by which we mean produce grown by suppliers whose practices conform to our Food With Integrity standards and our priorities with respect to environmental considerations and employee welfare. For more information about our sustainability and animal welfare initiatives see our biennial Sustainability Report and interim Update Report on our website www.chipotle.com/about-us/sustainability. Purchasing Maintaining the high levels of quality and safety we demand in our restaurants depends in part on our ability to acquire high-quality, fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet our specifications from reliable suppliers. Our 25 independently owned and operated regional distribution centers purchase from various suppliers we carefully select based on quality, price, availability, and the suppliers understanding of and adherence to our mission. We ve also sought to increase, where practical, the number of suppliers for our ingredients to help mitigate pricing volatility and reduce our reliance on one or several suppliers, which could create supply shortages. In addition, we closely monitor industry news, trade tariffs, weather, exchange rates, foreign demand, crises and other world events that may affect our ingredient prices. Certain key ingredients ( certain cuts of beef, tomatoes, tortillas and adobo ) are purchased from a small number of suppliers. Quality Assurance and Food Safety We are committed to serving only safe, high quality food. Our food safety and quality assurance teams work to ensure compliance with our food safety programs and practices, components of which include: natural inhibitors (to prevent microbial growth in ingredients); advanced technologies (tools that reduce or eliminate pathogens while maintaining food quality); small grower support and training; enhanced restaurant procedures (protocols for handling ingredients and sanitizing surfaces in our restaurants); food safety certifications; internal and third-party restaurant inspections; supplier interventions (steps to mitigate food safety risks before ingredients reach Chipotle); and ingredient traceability. These and other food safety practices underscore our commitment to be a leader in food safety while continuing to serve high quality food that our guests love. Our food safety and quality assurance teams establish and monitor our quality and food safety programs and work closely with suppliers to ensure our high standards are met throughout the supply chain. We maintain a limited list of approved suppliers , many of whom are among the top suppliers in the industry. In addition, we have a team approach where our training, operations, culinary, legal and restaurant food safety and quality assurance departments develop and implement operating standards for food quality, food preparation, restaurant cleanliness, employee health protocols, and safety in the restaurants. Our food safety programs are also intended to ensure that we not only continue to comply with applicable federal, state and local food safety regulations, but also establish Chipotle as an industry leader in food safety. To help achieve this goal, we have a Food Safety Advisory Council comprised of some of the nation s foremost food safety authorities. The Food Safety Advisory Council is charged with evaluating our programs and advising us on ways to elevate our already high standards for food safety. Our food safety and quality assurance team members hold board seats and participate in technical working groups with several associations. This gives us the opportunity to learn and share our knowledge and expertise with other food safety professionals and regulatory agencies. Digital Business Our digital platform continues to be a strategic driver of our growth. We have significantly upgraded our capabilities by digitizing almost all of our restaurant kitchens, expanding our partnerships with third-party delivery services and building more Chipotlanes, which is our drive through format for customer pick-up of digital orders. Digital sales, which includes delivery and customer pick-up, represented 45.6% of our total revenue in 2021, compared to 46.2% of total revenue in 2020. Our strong digital platform gave us a competitive advantage during the peaks of the COVID-19 pandemic, as more guests preferred to eat their meals at home and in-restaurant dining was prohibited or restricted. We have made digital ordering convenient with enhancements to the Chipotle App and website, such as unlimited customization, contactless delivery, and group ordering. 4 Table of Contents Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, Chipotle employed 97,660 people worldwide. In the United States, we employed 94,992 people in our restaurants and 1,451 people in our Restaurant Support Centers and field support organizations; 96,443 individuals are employed in the U.S. and 1,217 are employed in Canada, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Currently, none of our employees are represented by unions. We believe our efforts to manage our workforce have been effective, as evidenced by a strong culture and our employees demonstrated commitment to living our purpose and values. Culture, Values Diversity, Equity Inclusion As a people-first company rooted in values, our purpose of Cultivating a Better World extends beyond serving nutritious food using real ingredients. It means hiring world-class individuals dedicated to investing in their future and partnering together to positively impact the communities they serve. Most notably, it means fostering a culture that champions diversity, ensures equity, and celebrates inclusion. As of December 31, 2021, more than 50% of our U.S.-based employee population is female and approximately 68% of our U.S based employee population is comprised of racial and ethnic minorities. U.S. diversity statistics were as follows: Gender Race/Ethnicity Female 53% Hispanic or Latino 38% Male 46% White 30% Not Indicated 1% Black or African American 20% Asian 5% Two or More Races 4% Not Indicated/Specified 2% American Indian/Alaskan Native 1% Our most recent EEO-1 consolidated report is posted on the Investors page of our website at www.ir.chipotle.com under Corporate Governance Human Capital Information and additional details about the demographics of our employee population is included in our biennial Sustainability Report and interim Update Report on our website www.chipotle.com/about-us/sustainability . Talent Partnerships We develop Talent Partnerships to amplify our purpose and vision for people and to foster talent curation, grow our employees and scale Chipotle. We believe we have a compelling employee value proposition that enables us to engage current team members, as well as the communities we serve, via these partnerships. Internally, we connect with employees who are enrolled in our debt-free degree programs and explore career pathways and internal opportunities in collaboration with leaders throughout the corporate Restaurant Support Centers and restaurant and field staff. Externally, we are forging alliances with select organizations whose mission and values are aligned with ours, and who are also committed to growing their people and ensuring equity; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, Job Corps and Paul Quinn College are amongst these partners. We believe our overall talent strategy will allow us to effectively leverage existing talent to grow future leaders and mitigate turnover, while increasing employee engagement and driving business results. Total Rewards The financial, physical and mental wellness of our employees remains our top priority. During 2021, we conducted an independent pay equity analysis of our U.S. workforce to identify risks and pay gaps in our organization by gender and race/ethnicity to support our commitment to pay our employees equally across gender and race/ethnicity. The results of the 2021 analysis did not identify preferential treatment to any class of employee; however, we identified several isolated discrepancies between actual compensation and our policies and we quickly made pay adjustments to close all identified gaps. Our commitment to pay equity is evidenced by our investment in our compensation packages and robust suite of benefit offerings, such as: Elig ible Crew members who work at locations that meet team sales and output goals may qualify for a quarterly Crew Bonus (equivalent to one week s worth of pay on average). In addition to quarterly performance bonuses, full-time crew members with at least one continuous year of service may be eligible for an annual bonus. In 2021, we paid out $6.7 million across these bonus programs. Wages for hourly crew members increased over 15% in 2021, resulting in a national average hourly wage of greater than $15.00 per hour by the end of the year. An expanded Debt-Free Degree program that now provides Chipotle employees access to nearly 100 degrees at 10 universities, completely tuition debt free. 5 Table of Contents New Career Certificates further enhances our Tuition Assistance benefits by providing on-demand Certificate programs to help Chipotle team members advance their careers in as little as eight weeks. Personalized mental health assistance is available to all Chipotle employees and their family members through a partnership with Health Advocate; support is available 24/7 via in-person, phone, or virtual visits with a licensed counselor. Government Regulation and Environmental Matters We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern aspects of our business operations, including those governing: COVID-19 protective measures, such as requiring employees and/or guests to provide proof of vaccination, imposing social distancing, and requiring and enforcing the wearing of face coverings; the preparation, sale and labeling of food, including regulations of the Food and Drug Administration, which oversees the safety of the entire food system, including inspections and mandatory food recalls, menu labeling and nutritional content; employment practices and working conditions, such as minimum wage rates, wage and hour practices, requirements to provide meal and rest periods, Fair Workweek and just cause legislation, employment of minors, anti-discrimination, anti-harassment, classification of employees, paid and family leave, workplace safety accommodations to certain employees, immigration and overtime pay, among others; privacy and data security, laws governing the collection, maintenance and use of information regarding employees and guests and consumer credit protection and fraud; compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas; environmental practices, such as the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, and regulations restricting the use of straws, utensils and the types of packaging we can use in our restaurants; building and zoning requirements, including state and local licensing and regulation governing the design and operation of facilities and land use; and licensing and regulation by health, alcoholic beverage, sanitation, food and other agencies. While costs associated with compliance with these laws and regulations have increased as the number and scope of the laws have increased, the total costs incurred have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. See Risk Factors in Item 1A for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations applicable to our business. Seasonality Seasonal factors influencing our business are described under the heading Quarterly Financial Data/Seasonality in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Competition The fast-casual, quick-service, and casual dining segments of the restaurant industry are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, taste , price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience, brand reputation, cleanliness, and ambience of each restaurant. Our competition includes a variety of restaurants in each of these segments, including locally-owned restaurants, as well as national and regional chains. Competition from food delivery services, which offer meals from a wide variety of restaurants, also has increased in recent years, particularly during COVID-19, and is expected to continue to increase. Many of our competitors also offer dine-in, carry-out, online, catering, and delivery services. Among our main competitors are restaurant formats that claim to serve higher quality ingredients without artificial flavors, colors and preservatives, and that serve food quickly and at a reasonable price. Our Intellectual Property and Trademarks Chipotle, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Food With Integrity, Responsibly Raised, Chipotle Rewards, and a number of other marks and related designs and logos are U.S. registered trademarks of Chipotle. We have filed trademark applications for a number of additional marks in the U.S. as well. In addition to our U.S. registrations, we have registered trademarks for Chipotle and a number of other marks in Canada, the European Union and various other countries, and have filed trademark applications for Chipotle Mexican Grill, Chipotle and a number of other marks in additional countries. We also believe that the design of our restaurants is our proprietary trade dress and have registered elements of our restaurant design for trade dress protection in the U.S. as well. 6 Table of Contents From time to time, we have taken action against other restaurants that we believe are misappropriating our trademarks, restaurant designs or advertising. Although our policy is to protect and defend vigorously our rights to our intellectual property, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Available Information We maintain a website at www.chipotle.com, including an investor relations section at ir.chipotle.com, on which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Ethics and our Code of Conduct for Suppliers also are available in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of the websites mentioned above and elsewhere in this report are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 7 Table of Contents