ITEM 1. Business OVERVIEW We were founded in 1919 as Cummins Engine Company, a corporation in Columbus, Indiana and one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. In 2001, we changed our name to Cummins Inc. We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel, natural gas, electric and hybrid powertrains and powertrain-related components including filtration, aftertreatment, turbochargers, fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems, automated transmissions, electric power generation systems, batteries, electrified power systems, hydrogen production and fuel cell products. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, dealers and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a service network of approximately 500 wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distributor locations and more than 10,000 Cummins certified dealer locations in approximately 190 countries and territories. COVID-19 The outbreak of COVID-19 in early 2020 became a global pandemic with the resultant economic impacts evolving into a worldwide recession. The pandemic triggered a significant downturn in our markets globally, which negatively impacted our sales and results of operations during 2020. While the majority of the negative impacts to demand largely subsided in 2021, we are still experiencing supply chain disruptions and related financial impacts reflected as increased cost of sales. Our industry continues to be unfavorably impacted by supply chain constraints leading to shortages across multiple components categories and limiting our collective ability to meet end-user demand. Our customers are also experiencing other supply chain issues and slowing production. OPERATING SEGMENTS We have five complementary operating segments: Engine, Distribution, Components, Power Systems and New Power. These segments share technology, customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of performance, price, total cost of ownership, fuel economy, emissions compliance, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. We use segment earnings or losses before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and noncontrolling interests (EBITDA) as the primary basis for the Chief Operating Decision Maker to evaluate the performance of each of our reportable operating segments. We believe EBITDA is a useful measure of our operating performance as it assists investors and debt holders in comparing our performance on a consistent basis without regard to financing methods, capital structure, income taxes or depreciation and amortization methods, which can vary significantly depending upon many factors. See Note 22, "OPERATING SEGMENTS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information and a reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income . Engine Segment Engine segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 33 % 32 % 34 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 39 % 41 % 41 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas-powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, construction, mining, marine, rail, oil and gas, defense and agricultural markets. We manufacture a wide variety of engine products including: Engines with a displacement range of 2.8 to 15 liters and horsepower ranging from 48 to 715 and New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, primarily through our extensive distribution network. 5 Table of Contents The Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets: Heavy-duty truck - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines that range from 310 to 615 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide, primarily in North America, China and Australia. Medium-duty truck and bus - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines ranging from 130 to 450 horsepower serving medium-duty truck and bus customers worldwide, with key markets including North America, Europe, Latin America, China, Australia and India. Applications include pick-up, delivery, emergency vehicles, regional haul and vocational trucks and school, transit and shuttle buses. We also provide diesel engines for Class A motor homes (RVs), primarily in North America. Light-duty automotive (Pick-up and Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV)) - We manufacture 105 to 400 horsepower diesel engines, including engines for the pick-up truck market for Stellantis N.V. (Stellantis) in North America and LCV markets in Russia, Latin America and China. Off-highway - We manufacture diesel engines that range from 48 to 715 horsepower serving key global markets including construction, mining, marine, rail, oil and gas, defense and agriculture and also the power generation business for standby, mobile and distributed power generation solutions throughout the world. The principal customers of our heavy-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR Inc. (PACCAR), Navistar International Corporation (Navistar) and Daimler Trucks North America (Daimler). The principal customers of our medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as Daimler, Navistar and PACCAR. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Gorkovsky Avtomobilny Zavod, Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group Co., Ltd., Volkswagen Caminh es e nibus and China National Heavy Duty Truck Group. The principal customer of our pick-up on-highway engines is Stellantis. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction and agricultural equipment including Hyundai Heavy Industries, Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group, Komatsu, John Deere, JLG Industries, Inc. and Guangxi LiuGong Machinery Co., Ltd. In the Engine segment, our competitors vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geography. Other independent engine manufacturers include Weichai Power Co. Ltd., Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) and Deutz AG. Truck OEMs may also elect to produce their own engines, and we must provide competitive products to win and keep their business. Truck OEMs that currently produce some or all of their own engines include Daimler, PACCAR, TRATON AG, Volvo Powertrain, Ford Motor Company, Navistar, China First Auto Works, Dongfeng Motor Corporation, CNH Industrial and Isuzu. Distribution Segment Distribution segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 26 % 29 % 27 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 20 % 22 % 18 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Distribution segment is our primary sales, service and support channel. The segment serves our customers and certified dealers through a worldwide network of wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distribution locations. Wholly-owned locations operate and serve markets in the eight geographic regions noted below. Joint venture locations serve markets in South America, Southeast Asia, India, Middle East and Africa, while independent distribution locations serve markets in these and other geographies. Distribution s mission encompasses the sales and support of a wide range of products and services, including power generation systems, high-horsepower engines, heavy-duty and medium-duty engines designed for on- and off-highway use, application engineering services, custom-designed assemblies, retail and wholesale aftermarket parts and in-shop and field-based repair services. We also provide selected sales and aftermarket support for the New Power business. Our familiarity with a wide range of market applications allows us to tailor sales, service and support to meet customer-specific needs. The Distribution segment is organized and managed as eight geographic regions, including North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, Russia, China, Africa and Middle East, India and Latin America. Across these regions, our locations compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies that are listed as competitors of the Engine, Components or Power Systems segments. These competitors vary by geographical location and application market. 6 Table of Contents Components Segment Components segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 26 % 24 % 24 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 33 % 32 % 31 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Components segment supplies products which complement the Engine and Power Systems segments, including aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, transmissions, filtration products, electronics and fuel systems for commercial diesel and natural gas applications. We develop aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, fuel systems, transmissions and electronics to meet increasingly stringent emission and fuel economy standards. We manufacture filtration systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and medium-duty equipment, and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial vehicle applications. The Components segment is organized around the following businesses: Emission solutions - We are a global leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on and off-highway light-duty, medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets. Aftertreatment is the mechanism used to convert engine emissions of criteria pollutants, such as particulate matter, nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons into harmless emissions. Our products include custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, selective catalytic reduction systems and engineered components, including dosers. Our emission solutions business primarily serves markets in North America, China, Europe, India, Brazil, Asia Pacific and Russia. We serve both OEM first fit and retrofit customers. Turbo technologies - We design, manufacture and market turbochargers for light-duty, medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with worldwide sales and distribution. We provide critical air handling technologies for engines to meet challenging performance requirements and worldwide emission standards. We primarily serve markets in North America, Europe, China, India, Asia Pacific, Brazil and Russia. Filtration - We design, manufacture and sell filters, coolant and chemical products. Our filtration business offers over 8,800 products for first fit and aftermarket applications including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolants, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end-users. We support a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets including on and off-highway segments such as oil and gas, agriculture, mining, construction, power generation and marine. We produce and sell globally recognized Fleetguard branded products globally including in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, China, South America, Russia, Africa and Middle East. Fleetguard products are available through thousands of distribution points worldwide. Electronics and fuel systems - We design, develop and supply electronic control modules, sensors and supporting software for on-highway, off-highway and power generation applications. We also design and manufacture new, replacement and remanufactured fuel systems for medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engine markets. We primarily serve markets in North America, China, India, Europe and Brazil. Automated transmissions - We develop and supply automated transmissions for the heavy-duty commercial vehicle market. The Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies (ECJV) joint venture is a consolidated 50/50 joint venture between Cummins Inc. and Eaton Corporation Plc. and serves markets in North America and China. Customers of the Components segment generally include the Engine, Distribution and Power Systems segments, joint ventures including Tata Cummins Ltd. and Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd., truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of the Engine segment, such as PACCAR, Navistar, Daimler, Beiqi Foton Motor Company, Volvo, Stellantis, Komatsu, Scania and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms. The Components segment competes with other manufacturers of aftertreatment systems, filtration, turbochargers, fuel systems and transmissions. Our primary competitors in these markets include Robert Bosch GmbH, Donaldson Company, Inc., Parker-Hannifin Corporation, Mann+Hummel Group, Garrett Motion, Inc., Borg-Warner Inc., Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher Holding GmbH Co. KG, Denso Corporation, Allison Transmission, Aisin Seiki Co., Ltd. and ZF Friedrichshafen AG. 7 Table of Contents Power Systems Segment Power Systems segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 15 % 15 % 15 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 14 % 11 % 14 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Power Systems segment is organized around the following product lines: Power generation - We design, manufacture, sell and support standby and prime power generators ranging from 2 kilowatts to 3.5 megawatts, as well as controls, paralleling systems and transfer switches, for applications such as consumer, commercial, industrial, data centers, health care, global rental business, telecommunications and waste water treatment plants. We also provide turnkey solutions for distributed generation and energy management applications using natural gas, diesel or biogas as a fuel. Industrial - We design, manufacture, sell and support diesel and natural gas high-speed, high-horsepower engines up to 4,400 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in mining, rail, defense, oil and gas and marine applications throughout the world. Generator technologies - We design, manufacture, sell and support A/C generator/alternator products for internal consumption and for external generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford, Newage and AVK brands and range in output from 7.5 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 11,200 kVA. Our customer base for Power Systems offerings is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. China, Europe, India, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Russia, the Middle East and Africa are our largest geographic markets outside of North America. In the markets served by the Power Systems segment, we compete with a variety of independent engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products around the world. Our primary competitors are CAT, MTU (Rolls Royce Power Systems Group) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler Group), but we also compete with INNIO, Generac, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our alternator business competes globally with Leroy Somer (NIDEC), Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others. New Power Segment The New Power segment designs, manufactures, sells and supports hydrogen production solutions as well as electrified power systems ranging from fully electric to hybrid along with innovative components and subsystems, including battery and fuel cell technologies. The New Power segment is currently in the development phase with a primary focus on research and development activities for our power systems, components and subsystems. We anticipate our customer base for New Power offerings will be highly diversified, representing multiple end markets with a broad range of application requirements. We will continue to pursue relationships in markets as they adopt hydrogen and electric solutions. In the markets served by the New Power segment, we compete with emerging fuel cell and battery companies, powertrain component manufacturers, vertically integrated OEMs and entities providing hydrogen production solutions. Our primary competitors include Proterra Inc, Romeo Power, Inc., Daimler, PACCAR, Volvo, Navistar, TRATON AG, BYD Company Limited, Dana Incorporated, BorgWarner Inc., Ballard Power Systems, Inc. and Nel ASA. JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES We entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries. 8 Table of Contents In the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies. Financial information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our equity income from these investees was as follows: Years ended December 31, In millions 2021 2020 2019 Manufacturing entities Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. $ 112 26 % $ 113 30 % $ 60 22 % Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. 82 19 % 63 17 % 52 19 % Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. 39 9 % 35 9 % 41 15 % All other manufacturers 149 36 % 134 (1)(2) 35 % 88 33 % Distribution entities Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. 32 8 % 31 8 % 28 10 % All other distributors 10 2 % 2 1 % 2 1 % Cummins share of net income (3) $ 424 100 % $ 378 100 % $ 271 100 % (1) Includes $37 million in favorable adjustments related to tax changes within India's 2020-2021 Union Budget of India (India Tax Law Change) passed in March 2020. See NOTE 4, "INCOME TAXES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on India Tax Law Change. (2) Includes impairment charges of $13 million and loss on sale of business of $8 million for a joint venture in the Power Systems segment. (3) This total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see how this amount reconciles to "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in the Consolidated Statements of Net Income , see Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information . Manufacturing Entities Our manufacturing joint ventures were generally formed with customers and are primarily intended to allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Systems segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly-owned entities provide electronics, fuel systems, filtration, aftertreatment systems, turbocharger products and automated transmissions that are used with our engines as well as some competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50 percent or less ownership interest (except for Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies joint venture, which is consolidated due to our majority voting interest) discussed below are included in Equity, royalty and interest income from investees and Investments and advances related to equity method investees in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets , respectively. Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. - Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which has two distinct lines of business - a light-duty business and a heavy-duty business. The light-duty business produces our families of ISF 2.5 liter to 4.5 liter high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. These engines are used in light-duty and medium-duty commercial trucks, pick-up trucks, buses, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles with main markets in China, Brazil and Russia. Certain types of small construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families. The heavy-duty business produces the X11, X12, X13 and X15, ranging from 10.5 liter to 14.5 liter, high performance heavy-duty diesel engines and natural gas engines in Beijing. Certain types of construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families. 9 Table of Contents Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. - Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation and one of the largest medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces 3.9 liter to 14.5 liter diesel engines with a power range from 80 to 760 horsepower, natural gas engines and automated transmissions. On-highway engines are used in multiple applications in light-duty and medium-duty trucks, special purpose vehicles, buses and heavy-duty trucks with a main market in China. Off-highway engines are used in a variety of construction, power generation, marine and agriculture markets in China. Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. - Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. This joint venture manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China. Our joint venture agreement for Cummins Westport, Inc. expired on December 31, 2021, and will not be renewed. Beginning in January 2022, engines previously sold through the joint venture will now be included in our consolidated results. Distribution Entity Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. - Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in Chile and Peru. See further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above. Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries We have a majority voting interest in ECJV by virtue of a tie-breaking vote on the joint venture s board of directors. ECJV develops and supplies automated transmissions for the heavy-duty commercial vehicle market. We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in India. CIL produces medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, generators for the Indian and export markets and natural gas spark-ignited engines for power generation, automotive and industrial applications. CIL also has distribution and power generation operations. We have a controlling interest in Hydrogenics Corporation (Hydrogenics), which is consolidated in the New Power segment. Hydrogenics is a developer and manufacturer of proton exchange membrane fuel cell products as well as alkaline and proton exchange membrane electrolyzer solutions. SUPPLY The performance of the end-to-end supply chain, extending through to our suppliers, is foundational to our ability to meet customers' expectations and support long-term growth. We are committed to having a robust strategy for how we select and manage our suppliers to enable a market focused supply chain. This requires us to continuously evaluate and upgrade our supply base, as necessary, as we strive to ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers. We use a combination of proactive and reactive methodologies to enhance our understanding of supply base risks, which guide the development of risk monitoring and sourcing strategies. Our category strategy process (a process designed to create the most value for the company) supports the review of our long-term needs and guides decisions on what we make internally and what we purchase externally. For the items we decide to purchase externally, the strategies also identify the suppliers we should partner with long-term to provide the best technology, the lowest total cost and highest supply chain performance. We design and/or manufacture our strategic components used in or with our engines and power generation units and New Power products. Key suppliers are managed through long-term supply agreements that secure capacity, delivery, quality and cost requirements are met over an extended period. Other important elements of our sourcing strategy include: selecting and managing suppliers to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct and assuring our suppliers comply with our prohibited and restricted materials policy. As we adjust to the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and the rapid return of demand in many manufacturing industries, we are experiencing supply chain disruptions, incremental costs and related challenges throughout the supply chain. We continue to monitor the supply chain disruptions utilizing early detection technology complemented by structured supplier risk and resiliency assessments. We increased frequency of formal and informal supplier engagement to address potentially impactful supply base constraints and enhanced collaboration to develop specific countermeasures to mitigate risks. Our global team, located in different regions of the world, uses various approaches to identify and resolve threats to supply continuity. 10 Table of Contents PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks were granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents or trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is significant to our business. SEASONALITY While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal variation in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Systems segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction spending during this period. LARGEST CUSTOMERS We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them. PACCAR is our largest customer, accounting for 15 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2021, 15 percent in 2020 and 17 percent in 2019. We have long-term supply agreements with PACCAR for our heavy-duty and medium-duty engines and aftertreatment systems. While a significant number of our sales to PACCAR are under long-term supply agreements, these agreements provide for particular engine requirements for specific vehicle models and not a specific volume of engines or aftertreatment systems. PACCAR is our only customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our net sales in 2021. The loss of this customer or a significant decline in the production level of PACCAR vehicles that use our engines would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have supplied engines to PACCAR for 77 years. A summary of principal customers for each operating segment is included in our segment discussion. In addition to our agreement with PACCAR, we have long-term heavy-duty and medium-duty engine and aftertreatment system supply agreements with Navistar and Daimler. We also have an agreement with Stellantis to supply engines for its Ram trucks. Collectively, our net sales to these four customers, including PACCAR, were 33 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2021, 32 percent in 2020 and 37 percent in 2019. Excluding PACCAR, net sales to any single customer were less than 8 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2021, less than 7 percent in 2020 and less than 9 percent in 2019. These agreements contain standard purchase and sale agreement terms covering engine, aftertreatment and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations. The basic nature of our agreements with OEM customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that help prove for the availability of our products to each customer through the duration of the respective agreements. Agreements with most OEMs contain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of contro