ITEM 1. Business OVERVIEW We were founded in 1919 as Cummins Engine Company, a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, and one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. In 2001, we changed our name to Cummins Inc. We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel, natural gas, electric and hybrid powertrains and powertrain-related components including filtration, aftertreatment, turbochargers, fuel systems, valvetrain technologies, controls systems, air handling systems, automated transmissions, axles, drivelines, brakes, suspension systems, electric power generation systems, batteries, electrified power systems, hydrogen production technologies and fuel cell products. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, dealers and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a service network of approximately 450 wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distributor locations and more than 19,000 Cummins certified dealer locations in approximately 190 countries and territories. Meritor Acquisition On August 3, 2022, we completed the acquisition of Meritor with a purchase price of $2.9 billion (including debt repaid concurrent with the acquisition). Our consolidated results and segment results include Meritor's activity since the date of acquisition. Meritor was split into the newly formed axles and brakes business and electric powertrain. The results for the axles and brakes business are included in our Components segment while the electric powertrain portion is included in our Accelera segment. See NOTE 24, "ACQUISITIONS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. OPERATING SEGMENTS As previously announced, beginning in the first quarter of 2023, we realigned certain businesses and regions within our reportable segments to be consistent with how our segment managers monitor the performance of our segments. We reorganized the businesses within our Components segment to carve out the electronics business into the newly formed software and electronics business and combined the turbo technologies and fuel systems businesses into the newly formed engine components business. On May 26, 2023, with the initial public offering (IPO), we changed the name of our Components' filtration business to Atmus. Our Components segment now consists of the following businesses: axles and brakes, emission solutions, engine components, Atmus, automated transmissions and software and electronics. In the first quarter of 2023, as a result of the indefinite suspension of operations in Russia, we reorganized the regional management structure of our Distribution segment and moved all Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) sales into the Europe and Africa and Middle East regions. The Russian portion of prior period CIS sales moved to the Europe region. In March 2023, we rebranded our New Power segment as "Accelera" to better represent our commitment to zero-emission technologies. In addition, we moved our NPROXX joint venture from the Accelera segment to the Engine segment, which adjusted both the equity, royalty and interest income (loss) from investees and segment EBITDA (defined as earnings or losses before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and noncontrolling interests) line items for the prior years. We started to report results for the changes within our operating segments effective January 1, 2023, and reflected these changes in the historical periods presented. See NOTE 23, "FORMATION OF ATMUS AND IPO," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the Atmus IPO. We have five complementary operating segments: Components, Engine, Distribution, Power Systems and Accelera. These segments share technology, customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of performance, price, total cost of ownership, fuel economy, emissions compliance, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. We use segment EBITDA as the basis for the Chief Operating Decision Maker to evaluate the performance of each of our reportable operating segments. We believe EBITDA is a useful measure of our operating performance as it assists investors and debt holders in comparing our performance on a consistent basis without regard to financing methods, capital structure, income taxes or depreciation and amortization methods, which can vary significantly depending upon many factors. See NOTE 25, "OPERATING SEGMENTS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information and a reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income . 5 Table of Contents Components Segment Components segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 32 % 28 % 26 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 36 % 33 % 33 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Components segment supplies products which complement the Engine and Power Systems segments, including axles, drivelines, brakes and suspension systems for commercial diesel and natural gas applications, aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, fuel systems, valvetrain technologies, filtration products, automated transmissions and electronics. We develop drivetrain systems, aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, fuel systems, transmissions and electronics to meet increasingly stringent emission and fuel economy standards. In conjunction with the realignment of certain businesses during the first quarter of 2023, the Components segment is organized around the following businesses: Axles and brakes - We design, manufacture and supply drivetrain systems, including axles, drivelines, brakes and suspension systems primarily for commercial vehicle and industrial applications. We also market and sell truck, trailer, on- and off-highway and other products principally for OEM dealers and other independent distributors and service garages within the aftermarket industry. We primarily serve markets in North America, Europe, South America, India, Asia Pacific and China. Emission solutions - We are a global leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on- and off-highway light-duty, medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets. Aftertreatment is the mechanism used to convert engine emissions of criteria pollutants, such as particulate matter, nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons into harmless emissions. Our products include custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, selective catalytic reduction systems and engineered components, including dosers. Our emission solutions business primarily serves markets in North America, Europe, China, India, Brazil and Asia Pacific. We serve both OEM first fit and retrofit customers. Engine components - We design, manufacture and market turbocharger, fuel system and valvetrain technologies for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower markets across North America, China, Europe and India. Atmus - We design, manufacture and sell filters, coolants and chemical products. Our business offers a full spectrum of filtration solutions for first fit and aftermarket applications including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolants, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end-users. We support a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets including on- and off-highway segments such as oil and gas, agriculture, mining, construction, power generation and marine. We produce and sell globally recognized Fleetguard branded products globally including in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, South America, China, Africa and Middle East. Fleetguard products are available through thousands of distribution points worldwide. Automated transmissions - We develop and supply automated transmissions for the heavy-duty commercial vehicle market. Automated transmissions include automated manual transmissions, dual-clutch transmissions and automatic transmissions for internal combustion engines. The Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies (ECJV) joint venture is a consolidated 50/50 joint venture between Cummins Inc. and Eaton Corporation Plc. and serves markets in North America and China. Software and electronics - We develop, supply and remanufacture control units, specialty sensors, power electronics, actuators and software for on-highway, off-highway and power generation applications. We primarily serve markets in the Americas, China, India and Europe. Customers of the Components segment generally include the Engine, Distribution, Power Systems and Accelera segments, joint ventures including Tata Cummins Ltd. and Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd., truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of the Engine segment, such as PACCAR Inc. (PACCAR), Traton Group (Traton), Daimler Trucks North America (Daimler), Beiqi Foton Motor Company, Volvo, Stellantis N.V. (Stellantis), Komatsu Ltd. (Komatsu) and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms. 6 Table of Contents The Components segment competes with other manufacturers of aftertreatment systems, filtration, turbochargers, fuel systems, drivetrain systems and transmissions. Our primary competitors in these markets include Robert Bosch GmbH, Donaldson Company, Inc., Parker-Hannifin Corporation, Mann+Hummel Group, Garrett Motion, Inc., Borg-Warner Inc., Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher Holding GmbH Co. KG, Denso Corporation, Allison Transmission, Aisin Seiki Co., Ltd., ZF Friedrichshafen AG and Dana Incorporated. Engine Segment Engine segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 28 % 31 % 33 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 32 % 38 % 39 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas-powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy-duty truck, medium-duty truck and bus, light-duty automotive and off-highway markets. We manufacture a wide variety of engine products including: Engines with a displacement range of 2.8 to 15 liters and horsepower ranging from 48 to 715 and New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, primarily through our extensive distribution network. The Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets: Heavy-duty truck - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines that range from 310 to 615 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide, primarily in North America, China and Australia. Medium-duty truck and bus - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines ranging from 130 to 450 horsepower serving medium-duty truck and bus customers worldwide, with key markets including North America, Europe, Latin America, China, Australia and India. Applications include pick-up, delivery, emergency vehicles, regional haul and vocational trucks and school, transit and shuttle buses. We also provide diesel engines for Class A motor homes (RVs), primarily in North America. Light-duty automotive (pick-up and light commercial vehicle (LCV)) - We manufacture 105 to 400 horsepower diesel engines, including engines for the pick-up truck market for Stellantis in North America and LCV markets in Latin America and China. Off-highway - We manufacture diesel engines that range from 48 to 715 horsepower serving key global markets including construction, mining, marine, rail, oil and gas, defense and agriculture and also the power generation business for standby, mobile and distributed power generation solutions throughout the world. The principal customers of our heavy-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR, Traton and Daimler. The principal customers of our medium-duty truck and bus engines include truck manufacturers such as Daimler, Traton and PACCAR. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group Co., Ltd., Volkswagen Caminh es e nibus and China National Heavy Duty Truck Group. The principal customer of our pick-up on-highway engines is Stellantis. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction and agricultural equipment including Hyundai Heavy Industries, Komatsu, Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science Technology Co., Ltd, Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group, Guangxi LiuGong Machinery Co., Ltd, JLG Industries, Inc. and Sany Group. In the Engine segment, our competitors vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geography. Other independent engine manufacturers include Weichai Power Co. Ltd. and Deutz AG. Truck OEMs may also elect to produce their own engines, and we must provide competitive products to win and keep their business. Truck OEMs that currently produce some or all of their own engines include Daimler, PACCAR, Traton, Volvo Powertrain, Ford Motor Company, China First Auto Works, Dongfeng Motor Corporation, CNH Industrial and Isuzu. 7 Table of Contents Distribution Segment Distribution segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 25 % 26 % 26 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 24 % 22 % 20 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Distribution segment is our primary sales, service and support channel. The segment serves our customers and certified dealers through a worldwide network of wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distribution locations. Wholly-owned locations operate and serve markets in the seven geographic regions noted below. Joint venture locations serve markets in South America, Southeast Asia, India, Middle East and Africa, while independent distribution locations serve markets in these and other geographies. Distribution s mission encompasses the sales and support of a wide range of products and services, including power generation systems, high-horsepower engines, heavy-duty and medium-duty engines designed for on- and off-highway use, application engineering services, custom-designed assemblies, retail and wholesale aftermarket parts and in-shop and field-based repair services. We also provide selected sales and aftermarket support for the Accelera business. Our familiarity with a wide range of market applications allows us to tailor sales, service and support to meet customer-specific needs. As previously announced, due to the indefinite suspension of operations in Russia, we reorganized the regional management structure of our Distribution segment and moved all CIS sales into the Europe and Africa and Middle East regions. The Russian portion of prior period CIS sales moved to the Europe region. We started to report results for our new regional management structure in the first quarter of 2023 and reflected these changes for historical periods. The Distribution segment is organized and managed as seven geographic regions, including North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, China, Africa and Middle East, India and Latin America. Across these regions, our locations compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies that are listed as competitors of the Components, Engine or Power Systems segments. These competitors vary by geographical location and application market. Power Systems Segment Power Systems segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were: Years ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Percent of consolidated net sales (1) 14 % 14 % 15 % Percent of consolidated EBITDA (1) 16 % 15 % 14 % (1) Measured before intersegment eliminations The Power Systems segment is organized around the following product lines: Power generation - We are a global OEM offering standby and prime power generators ranging from 2 kilowatts to 3.5 megawatts, as well as controls, paralleling systems and transfer switches, for customers with consumer, commercial, industrial, data center, health care, prime rental fleet and defense applications. We also provide turnkey solutions for distributed generation and energy management applications using natural gas, diesel and newer alternative sustainable fuels such as hydrotreated vegetable oil and renewable natural gas. Industrial - We design, manufacture, sell and support diesel and natural gas high-speed, high-horsepower engines up to 4,400 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in mining, rail, defense, oil and gas and marine applications throughout the world. Generator technologies - We design, manufacture, sell and support A/C generator/alternator products for internal consumption and for external generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford and AVK brands and range in output from 7.5 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 11,200 kVA. Our customer base for Power Systems offerings is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. China, India, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa are our largest geographic markets outside of North America. 8 Table of Contents In the markets served by the Power Systems segment, we compete with a variety of independent engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products around the world. Our primary competitors are Caterpillar, Inc., MTU (Rolls Royce Power Systems Group) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler Group), but we also compete with INNIO, Generac, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our alternator business competes globally with Leroy Somer, Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others. Accelera Segment The Accelera segment designs, manufactures, sells and supports hydrogen production technologies as well as electrified power systems with innovative components and subsystems, including battery, fuel cell and electric powertrain technologies. The Accelera segment is currently in the early stages of commercializing these technologies with efforts primarily focused on the development of our electrolyzers for hydrogen production and electrified power systems and related components and subsystems. We anticipate our customer base for Accelera offerings will be highly diversified, representing multiple end markets with a broad range of application requirements. This includes new markets, like the growing green hydrogen market, which we serve with our leading hydrogen production technologies. We will continue to pursue relationships in markets as they adopt hydrogen and electric solutions. In the markets served by the Accelera segment, we compete with emerging fuel cell and battery companies, powertrain component manufacturers, vertically integrated OEMs and entities providing hydrogen production solutions. Our primary competitors include Daimler, PACCAR, Volvo, Traton, BYD Company Limited, Dana Incorporated, BorgWarner Inc., Ballard Power Systems, Inc., Nel ASA, ITM Power, Siemens Energy, Thyssenkrupp and Plug Power Inc. JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES We entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries. In the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies. Financial information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from NOTE 4, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our equity income from these investees was as follows: Years ended December 31, In millions 2023 2022 2021 Manufacturing entities Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. $ 65 19 % $ 45 20 % $ 82 19 % Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. 47 14 % 37 17 % 112 26 % Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. 36 11 % 32 14 % 39 9 % Tata Cummins, Ltd. 29 9 % 27 12 % 18 4 % All other manufacturers 91 27 % 28 (1) 12 % 131 32 % Distribution entities Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. 55 16 % 44 20 % 32 8 % All other distributors 16 4 % 11 5 % 10 2 % Cummins share of net income (2) $ 339 100 % $ 224 100 % $ 424 100 % (1) Includes a $28 million impairment of our joint venture with KAMAZ and $3 million of royalty charges as part of our costs associated with the indefinite suspension of our Russian operations. In addition, on February 7, 2022, we purchased Westport Fuel System Inc.'s stake in Cummins Westport, Inc. (Westport JV). See NOTE 24, "ACQUISITIONS," and NOTE 22, "RUSSIAN OPERATIONS," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) This total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see how this amount reconciles to equity, royalty and interest income from investees in the Consolidated Statements of Net Income , see NOTE 4, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information . 9 Table of Contents Manufacturing Entities Our manufacturing joint ventures were generally formed with customers and are primarily intended to allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Systems segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly-owned entities provide axles, drivelines, brakes and suspension systems for commercial diesel and natural gas applications, aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, fuel systems, filtration products, automated transmissions and electronics that are used with our engines as well as some competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50 percent or less ownership interest (except for ECJV, which is consolidated due to our majority voting interest) discussed below are included in equity, royalty and interest income from investees and investments and advances related to equity method investees in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets , respectively. Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. - Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation and one of the largest medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces 3.9 liter to 14.5 liter diesel engines with a power range from 80 to 760 horsepower, natural gas engines and automated transmissions. On-highway engines are used in multiple applications in light-duty and medium-duty trucks, special purpose vehicles, buses and heavy-duty trucks with a main market in China. Off-highway engines are used in a variety of construction, power generation, marine and agriculture markets in China. Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. - Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which has two distinct lines of business - a light-duty business and a heavy-duty business. The light-duty business produces our families of ISF 2.5 liter to 4.5 liter high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. These engines are used in light-duty and medium-duty commercial trucks, pick-up trucks, buses, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles with main markets in China and Brazil. Certain types of small construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families. The heavy-duty business produces 8.5 liter to 14.5 liter high performance heavy-duty diesel and natural gas engines in Beijing. Certain types of construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families. Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. - Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. This joint venture manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China. Tata Cummins, Ltd. - Tata Cummins, Ltd. is a joint venture in India with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures Cummins' 3.8 to 8.9 liter diesel and natural gas engines in India with a power range from 75 to 400 horsepower for use in trucks and buses manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various on-highway, industrial and power generation applications for Cummins. In September 2023, our Accelera business signed an agreement to form a joint venture with Daimler Trucks and Buses US Holding LLC (Daimler Truck), PACCAR Inc. (PACCAR) and EVE Energy to accelerate and localize battery cell production and the battery supply chain in the U.S., including building a 21-gigawatt hour battery production facility in Marshall County, Mississippi. The joint venture will manufacture battery cells for electric commercial vehicles and industrial applications. Accelera, Daimler Truck and PACCAR will each own 30 percent of the joint venture, while EVE Energy will own 10 percent. Total investment by the partners is expected to be in the range of $2 billion to $3 billion for the 21-gigawatt hour facility. The transaction is subject to closing conditions and receipt of applicable merger control and regulatory approvals including submission of a voluntary notice to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. 10 Table of Contents Distribution Entity Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. - Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in Chile and Peru. See further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above. Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries Atmus Filtration Technologies Inc. (Atmus) - We have a controlling interest in Atmus, which is a publicly listed company on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and began trading on May 26, 2023. Atmus develops, designs, manufactures and sells filters, coolant and chemical products and offers products for first fit and aftermarket applications including air filter, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolants, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end-users. Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies - We have a majority voting interest in ECJV by virtue of a tie-breaking vote on the joint venture s board of directors. ECJV develops and supplies automated transmissions for the heavy-duty commercial vehicle markets in North America and China. Cummins India Ltd. (CIL) - We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in India. CIL produces medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines and generators for the Indian and export markets and natural gas spark-ignited engines for power generation, automotive and industrial applications. CIL also has distribution and power generation operations. SUPPLY The performance of the end-to-end supply chain, extending through to our suppliers, is foundational to our ability to meet customers' expectations and support long-term growth. We are committed to having a robust strategy for how we select and manage our suppliers to enable a market focused supply chain. This requires us to continuously evaluate and upgrade our supply base, as necessary, as we strive to ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers. We use a combination of proactive and reactive methodologies to enhance our understanding of supply base risks, which guide the development of risk monitoring and sourcing strategies. Our category strategy process supports the review of our long-term needs and guides decisions on what we make internally and what we purchase externally. For externally purchased items, the strategies also identify the suppliers we should consider for long-term supply agreements to provide the best technology, the lowest total cost and highest supply chain performance. We design and/or manufacture our strategic components used in or with our engines, power generation units and Accelera products. Key supplie