Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 34 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 37 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 58 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B. Other Information 103 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 103 Item 11. Executive Compensation 103 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 103 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 103 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 103 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 105 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 110 Signatures 111 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All statements, other than statements of current or historical fact, contained in this filing are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, forward-looking statements often use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "intend," "seek," "target," "goal," "may," "will," "would," "could," "should," "can," "continue" and other similar words or expressions (and the negative thereof). Centene (the Company, our or we) intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe-harbor provisions. In particular, these statements include, without limitation, statements about our future operating or financial performance, market opportunity, growth strategy, competition, expected activities in completed and future acquisitions, including statements about the impact of our recently completed acquisition (the WellCare Acquisition) of WellCare Health Plans, Inc. (WellCare), other recent and future acquisitions, investments and the adequacy of our available cash resources. These statements may be found in the various sections of this filing, such as Part I, Item IA "Risk Factors," and Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings," and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on numerous assumptions and assessments made by us in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, business strategies, operating environments, future developments and other factors we believe appropriate. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and are subject to change because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future, including economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. All forward-looking statements included in this filing are based on information available to us on the date of this filing. Except as may be otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements included in this filing, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date of this filing. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, as actual results may differ materially from projections, estimates, or other forward-looking statements due to a variety of important factors, variables and events including but not limited to: uncertainty as to our expected financial performance following completion of the WellCare Acquisition; the possibility that the expected synergies and value creation from the WellCare Acquisition will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred in connection with the integration of the WellCare Acquisition or that the integration of WellCare will be more difficult or time consuming than expected; unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the WellCare Acquisition; the inability to retain key personnel; disruption from the completion of the WellCare Acquisition, including potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships with customers, employees, suppliers or regulators, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the risk that, following the WellCare Acquisition, we may not be able to effectively manage our expanded operations; our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage health benefits and other operating expenses and reserves; competition; membership and revenue declines or unexpected trends; changes in healthcare practices, new technologies, and advances in medicine; increased healthcare costs; changes in economic, political or market conditions; changes in federal or state laws or regulations, including changes with respect to income tax reform or government healthcare programs as well as changes with respect to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively referred to as the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and any regulations enacted thereunder that may result from changing political conditions or judicial actions, including the ultimate outcome in "Texas v. United States of America" regarding the constitutionality of the ACA; rate cuts or other payment reductions or delays by governmental payors and other risks and uncertainties affecting our government businesses; our ability to adequately price products on the Health Insurance Marketplaces and other commercial and Medicare products; tax matters; disasters or major epidemics; Table of Contents the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings; changes in expected contract start dates; provider, state, federal and other contract changes and timing of regulatory approval of contracts; the expiration, suspension, or termination of our contracts with federal or state governments (including but not limited to Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE or other customers); the difficulty of predicting the timing or outcome of pending or future litigation or government investigations; challenges to our contract awards; cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents; the possibility that the expected synergies and value creation from acquired businesses, including, without limitation, the WellCare Acquisition, will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the exertion of management's time and our resources, and other expenses incurred and business changes required in connection with complying with the undertakings in connection with any regulatory, governmental or third party consents or approvals for acquisitions; disruption caused by significant completed and pending acquisitions, including, among others, the WellCare Acquisition, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred in connection with the completion and/or integration of acquisition transactions; changes in expected closing dates, estimated purchase price and accretion for acquisitions; the risk that acquired businesses, including WellCare, will not be integrated successfully; the risk that we may not be able to effectively manage our operations as they have expanded as a result of the WellCare Acquisition; restrictions and limitations in connection with our indebtedness; our ability to maintain or achieve improvement in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Star ratings and maintain or achieve improvement in other quality scores in each case that can impact revenue and future growth; availability of debt and equity financing, on terms that are favorable to us; inflation; and foreign currency fluctuations . This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. We discuss certain of these matters more fully, as well as certain other factors that may affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of Part I of this filing contains a further discussion of these and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations. Due to these important factors and risks, we cannot give assurances with respect to our future performance, including without limitation our ability to maintain adequate premium levels or our ability to control our future medical and selling, general and administrative costs. Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Presentation The Company is providing certain non-GAAP financial measures in this report as the Company believes that these figures are helpful in allowing investors to more accurately assess the ongoing nature of the Company's operations and measure the Company's performance more consistently across periods. The Company uses the presented non-GAAP financial measures internally to allow management to focus on period-to-period changes in the Company's core business operations. Therefore, the Company believes that this information is meaningful in addition to the information contained in the GAAP presentation of financial information. The presentation of this additional non-GAAP financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Specifically, the Company believes the presentation of non-GAAP financial information that excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition related expenses, as well as other items, allows investors to develop a more meaningful understanding of the Company's performance over time. The tables below provide reconciliations of non-GAAP items ($ in millions, except per share data). Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 GAAP net earnings attributable to Centene $ 1,321 $ 900 $ 828 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 258 211 156 Acquisition related expenses 104 425 20 Other adjustments (1) 301 30 (7 ) Income tax effects of adjustments (2) (127 ) (155 ) (108 ) Adjusted net earnings $ 1,857 $ 1,411 $ 889 GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Centene $ 3.14 $ 2.26 $ 2.34 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (3) 0.47 0.41 0.28 Acquisition related expenses (4) 0.19 0.81 0.04 Other adjustments (1) 0.62 0.06 (0.14 ) Adjusted Diluted EPS $ 4.42 $ 3.54 $ 2.52 (1) Other adjustments include the following items: 2019 - (a) non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment of $271 million or $0.57 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.08 and (b) debt extinguishment costs of $30 million or $0.05 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.02 ; 2018 - the impact of retroactive changes to the California minimum medical loss ratio (MLR) of $30 million of expense or $0.06 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.02 ; and 2017 - (a) the Penn Treaty assessment expense of $56 million or $0.10 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.06 ; (b) the cost sharing reduction (CSR) expense of $22 million or $0.04 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.02 ; (c) the charitable contribution commitment of $40 million or $0.07 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.05 ; and (d) the benefit associated with income tax reform of $125 million or $0.35 per diluted share. (2) The income tax effects of adjustments are based on the effective income tax rates applicable to adjusted (non-GAAP) results. There is no additional income tax effect from income tax reform. (3) Amortization of acquired intangible assets is net of an income tax benefit of $0.14 , $0.12 , and $0.16 per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. (4) Acquisition related expenses are net of an income tax benefit of $0.06 , $0.25 and $0.02 per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Acquisition related expenses for 2019 include net carrying costs on the $7.0 billion senior notes issued in preparation of the WellCare acquisition of approximately $13 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of approximately $0.01 per diluted share. i Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses $ 6,533 $ 6,043 $ 4,446 Acquisition related expenses 85 421 20 Penn Treaty assessment expense 56 Charitable contribution 40 Adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses $ 6,448 $ 5,622 $ 4,330 ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business OVERVIEW We are a leading multi-national healthcare enterprise that is committed to helping people live healthier lives. We take a local approach - with local brands and local teams - to provide fully integrated, high-quality, and cost-effective services to government-sponsored and commercial healthcare programs, focusing on under-insured and uninsured individuals. We also provide education and outreach programs to inform and assist members in accessing quality, appropriate healthcare services. We believe our local approach, including member and provider services, enables us to provide accessible, quality, culturally-sensitive healthcare coverage to our communities. Our population health management, educational and other initiatives are designed to help members best utilize the healthcare system to ensure they receive appropriate, medically necessary services and effective management of routine, severe and chronic health problems, resulting in better health outcomes. We combine our decentralized local approach for care with a centralized infrastructure of support functions such as finance, information systems and claims processing. Our initial health plan commenced operations in Wisconsin in 1984. We were organized in Wisconsin in 1993 as a holding company for our initial health plan and reincorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CNC." We operate in two segments: Managed Care and Specialty Services. Our Managed Care segment provides health plan coverage to individuals through government subsidized and commercial programs. Our Specialty Services segment includes companies offering diversified healthcare services and products to our Managed Care segment and other external customers. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , our Managed Care and Specialty Services segments accounted for 95% and 5% , respectively, of our total external revenues. Our membership totaled 15.2 million as of December 31, 2019 . For the year ended December 31, 2019 , our total revenues and net earnings attributable to Centene were $74.6 billion and $1.3 billion , respectively, and our total cash flow from operations was $1.5 billion . WellCare Acquisition On January 23, 2020 , we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of WellCare Health Plans, Inc. (WellCare, and such acquisition, the WellCare Acquisition ). The transaction is valued at approximately $19.6 billion , including the assumption of $1.95 billion of outstanding debt. The cash portion of the acquisition was funded through the issuance of long-term debt in December 2019. The WellCare Acquisition brings a high-quality Medicare platform and further extends our robust Medicaid offerings. The WellCare Acquisition also enables us to provide access to more comprehensive and differentiated solutions across more markets with a continued focus on affordable, high-quality, culturally-sensitive healthcare services. With the WellCare Acquisition , we further broadened our product offerings by adding a Medicare prescription drug plan to our existing business lines. The business discussion reflects only Centene operations in 2019, prior to the completion of the WellCare Acquisition , unless specifically noted. INDUSTRY We provide a full spectrum of managed healthcare products and services, primarily through Medicaid, commercial and Medicare products. We currently have operations domestically and internationally. Medicaid Established in 1965, Medicaid is the largest publicly funded program in the United States, and provides health insurance to low-income families and individuals with disabilities. Authorized by Title XIX of the Social Security Act, Medicaid is an entitlement program funded jointly by the federal and state governments and administered by the states. The majority of funding is provided at the federal level. Each state establishes its own eligibility standards, benefit packages, payment rates and program administration within federal standards. As a result, there are 56 Medicaid programs - one for each U.S. state, each U.S. territory and the District of Columbia. Eligibility is based on a combination of household income and assets, often determined by an income level relative to the federal poverty level. Historically, children have represented the largest eligibility group. Many states have selected Medicaid managed care as a means of delivering quality healthcare and controlling costs. We refer to these states as mandatory managed care states. 1 Table of Contents Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Medicaid coverage was expanded to all individuals under age 65 with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level beginning January 1, 2014, subject to the states' elections. The federal government paid the entire costs for Medicaid Expansion coverage for newly eligible beneficiaries from 2014 through 2016, 95% of the costs in 2017, 94% of the costs in 2018, 93% of the costs in 2019, and 90% of the costs in 2020. Assuming that the current program remains in effect unchanged, in subsequent years the federal share is scheduled to remain at 90%. Established in 1972 and authorized by Title XVI of the Social Security Act, Aged, Blind, or Disabled, or collectively ABD, covers low-income persons with chronic physical disabilities or behavioral health impairments. ABD beneficiaries represent a growing portion of all Medicaid recipients. In addition, ABD recipients typically utilize more services as a result of their health status. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 created the State Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) to help states expand coverage primarily to children whose families earned too much to qualify for Medicaid, yet not enough to afford private health insurance. Costs related to the largest eligibility group, children, are primarily composed of pediatrics and family care. These costs tend to be more predictable than those associated with other healthcare issues which predominantly affect the adult population. Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS) is a Medicaid product that covers Institutional/Residential Care (Nursing Facilities, Intermediate Care Facilities) and Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) for beneficiaries requiring assistance with their activities of daily living, such as bathing, dressing and transferring. The most common HCBS services include personal care, adult day care, non-emergent transportation, home-delivered meals and personal emergency response systems. LTSS services are provided for individuals requiring nursing home level of care, receiving waiver services, or entitled to state Medicaid LTSS benefits. The largest groups receiving LTSS, by spending, are older individuals and individuals with physical disabilities, followed by individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities, those with serious mental illness and/or serious emotional disturbance and other populations. States are increasingly turning to managed care as a solution to provide coordinated, holistic care to their LTSS beneficiaries. According to the National Association of States United for Aging and Disabilities, 24 states utilize some form of managed LTSS, up from eight in 2004. The majority of youth and children in foster care qualify for Medicaid, most commonly through Title IV-E of the Social Security Act, which provides funding to support safe and stable out-of-home care for children who are removed from their homes. The federal government has enacted legislation establishing guidelines and requirements for state child welfare agencies related to the health and well-being of children in foster care, including the provision of grants and technical assistance to enable states to meet these needs and make explicit connections with state Medicaid. In addition, the ACA requires states to make former foster care children eligible for Medicaid until they reach the age of 26, provided that they turned 18 while in foster care, and were enrolled in Medicaid at that time. CMS estimated the total Medicaid market to be approximately $595 billion in 2018, and estimated the market will grow to $1.0 trillion by 2027. Medicaid spending is estimated to have increased by 2.2% in 2018 and is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 5.5% between 2018 and 2027. While Medicaid programs have directed funds to many individuals who cannot afford or otherwise maintain health insurance coverage, they did not initially address the inefficient and costly manner in which the Medicaid population tends to access healthcare. Medicaid recipients in non-managed care programs typically have not sought preventive care or routine treatment for chronic conditions, such as asthma and diabetes. Rather, they have sought healthcare in hospital emergency departments, which is typically more expensive. As a result, many states without managed care programs have found that the costs of providing Medicaid benefits have increased while the medical outcomes for the recipients remained unsatisfactory. We believe managed care has improved the quality of care for Medicaid beneficiaries and lowered costs. The majority of states have mandated that their Medicaid recipients enroll in managed care plans. Other states are considering moving to a mandated managed care approach for additional populations and products. As a result, we believe a significant market opportunity exists for managed care organizations with operations and programs focused on the distinct socio-economic, cultural and healthcare needs of the uninsured population and the Medicaid populations. 2 Table of Contents Commercial Established in 2010 and operational in 2014, the ACA created Health Insurance Marketplaces, which are a key component of the ACA and provide an opportunity for individuals and small businesses to obtain health insurance. States have the option of operating their own Marketplace or partnering with the federal government. States choosing neither option currently default to a federally-facilitated Marketplace. Premium subsidies are available to make coverage more affordable and access to Marketplaces is limited to U.S. citizens and legal immigrants. Insurers are required to offer a minimum level of benefits with coverage that varies based on premiums and out-of-pocket costs. Premium subsidies are provided to families without access to other coverage and with incomes generally between 100-400% of the federal poverty level, with some exceptions, to help them purchase insurance through the Marketplaces. These subsidies are offered on a sliding scale basis. W e also offer commercial healthcare products to individuals through large and small employer groups. We offer plans with differing benefit designs and varying levels of co-payments at different premium rates. These plans are offered generally through contracts with participating network physicians, hospitals and other providers. Coverage typically is subject to deductibles and copayments or coinsurance. Medicare We contract with CMS under the Medicare Advantage program to provide Medicare Advantage products directly to Medicare beneficiaries as well as through employer and union groups. The Medicare program provides health care coverage primarily to individuals age 65 or older as well as to individuals with certain disabilities. We provide or arrange healthcare benefits for services normally covered by Medicare, plus a broad range of healthcare benefits for services not covered by traditional Medicare, usually in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS that varies based upon the county in which the member resides, demographic factors of the member such as age, gender and institutionalized status, and the health status of the member. Any benefits that are not covered by Medicare may result in an additional monthly premium charged to the enrollee or through portions of payments received from CMS that may be allocated to these benefits, according to CMS regulations and guidance. Many of our Medicare Advantage members pay no monthly premium to us for these additional benefits. We provide a wide range of Medicare products, including Medicare Advantage plans with and without prescription drug coverage and Medicare supplement products that supplement traditional fee-for-service Medicare coverage. Our subsidiaries have a number of contracts with CMS under the Medicare Advantage program authorized under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act. A portion of Medicare beneficiaries are dual-eligible, low-income seniors and people with disabilities who are enrolled in both Medicaid and Medicare. According to CMS, there were approximately 10.9 million dual-eligible enrollees in 2018. These dual-eligible members may receive assistance from Medicaid for benefits, such as nursing home care, HCBS, and/or assistance with Medicare premiums and cost sharing. Dual-eligibles also use more services due to their tendency to have more chronic health issues. We serve dual-eligibles through our Aged, Blind and Disabled (ABD), Long Term Services and Supports (LTSS), Medicare-Medicaid Plans (MMP) and Medicare Advantage Dual Special Needs Plan (DSNP) lines of business. CMS developed the Medicare Advantage Star ratings system to help consumers choose among competing plans, awarding between 1.0 and 5.0 stars to Medicare Advantage plans based on performance in certain measures of quality. The Star ratings are used by CMS to award quality bonus payments to Medicare Advantage plans. Beginning with the 2014 Star ratings (calculated in 2013), Medicare Advantage plans are required to achieve a minimum of 4.0 Stars to qualify for a quality bonus payment. The methodology and measures included in the Star ratings system can be modified by CMS annually and Star ratings thresholds are based on performance of Medicare Advantage plans nationally. CMS estimated the total Medicare market was approximately $747 billion in 2018, and estimated the market will grow to approximately $1.4 trillion by 2027. Medicare spending is estimated to have increased 5.9% in fiscal 2018 and is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 7.4% between 2018 and 2027. 3 Table of Contents International We currently have a growing international presence in Spain, the United Kingdom (UK) and Slovakia. In June 2019, we purchased an additional 40% ownership in Ribera Salud for $54 million, bringing our total ownership to 90%. Ribera Salud manages health administration concessions in various regions in Spain. In the UK, our subsidiary, Operose Health (Group) Limited (Operose Health), is one of the largest provider networks and delivers medical and community based services in the primary care sector of the National Health Service (NHS), which is the publicly funded, national healthcare system for England. We also have additional noncontrolling investments in the UK. Our equity method investee in Slovakia provides radiology services in the region. OUR COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Our approach is based on the following key competitive strengths: Expertise in Government Sponsored Programs. For more than 35 years, we have developed a specialized services expertise that has helped us establish and maintain relationships with members, providers and our government customers. We have implemented programs developed to achieve savings for our government customers and improve health outcomes and quality of care for members. We work to assist the states in which we operate in addressing the operating challenges they face. Quality and Innovation. Our innovative population health management programs focus on improving quality of care in areas that have the greatest impact on our members. We concentrate on serving the whole person to impact outcomes and costs. We recognize the importance of member-focused delivery of quality managed care services and have developed award winning education and outreach programs including the My Health Pays program, On.Demand Diabetes, Start Smart For Your Baby, and MemberConnections. It is our objective to provide access to the highest quality of care for our members. As a validation of that objective, we pursue accreditation by independent organizations that have been established to promote healthcare quality. We seek the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) and the Utilization Review A