Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 36 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. Reserved 41 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 111 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Implications 112 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 112 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 112 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 112 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 113 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117 Signatures 118 T able of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All statements, other than statements of current or historical fact, contained in this filing are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, forward-looking statements often use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "intend," "seek," "target," "goal," "may," "will," "would," "could," "should," "can," "continue" and other similar words or expressions (and the negative thereof). Centene Corporation and its subsidiaries (Centene, the Company, our or we) intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe-harbor provisions. In particular, these statements include, without limitation, statements about our future operating or financial performance, market opportunity, competition, expected activities in connection with completed and future acquisitions and dispositions, our investments and the adequacy of our available cash resources. These statements may be found in the various sections of this filing, such as Part I, Item 1. "Business," Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings," and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on numerous assumptions and assessments made by us in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, business strategies, operating environments, future developments and other factors we believe appropriate. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and are subject to change because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future, including economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. All forward-looking statements included in this filing are based on information available to us on the date of this filing. Except as may be otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements included in this filing, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, after the date of this filing. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, as actual results may differ materially from projections, estimates, or other forward-looking statements due to a variety of important factors, variables and events including, but not limited to: our ability to design and price products that are competitive and/or actuarially sound including but not limited to any impacts resulting from Medicaid redeterminations; our ability to maintain or achieve improvement in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Star ratings and maintain or achieve improvement in other quality scores in each case that can impact revenue and future growth; our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage health benefits and other operating expenses and reserves, including fluctuations in medical utilization rates; competition, including for providers, broker distribution networks, contract reprocurements and organic growth; our ability to adequately anticipate demand and provide for operational resources to maintain service level requirements; our ability to manage our information systems effectively; disruption, unexpected costs, or similar risks from business transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, and changes in our relationships with third parties; impairments to real estate, investments, goodwill, and intangible assets; changes in senior management, loss of one or more key personnel or an inability to attract, hire, integrate and retain skilled personnel; membership and revenue declines or unexpected trends; rate cuts or other payment reductions or delays by governmental payors and other risks and uncertainties affecting our government businesses; changes in healthcare practices, new technologies, and advances in medicine; increased healthcare costs; inflation and interest rates; the effect of social, economic, and political conditions and geopolitical events, including as a result of changes in U.S. presidential administrations or Congress; changes in market conditions; T able of Contents changes in federal or state laws or regulations, including changes with respect to income tax reform or government healthcare programs as well as changes with respect to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to as the ACA) and any regulations enacted thereunder; uncertainty concerning government shutdowns, debt ceilings or funding; tax matters; disasters, climate-related incidents, acts of war or aggression or major epidemics; changes in expected contract start dates; changes in provider, broker, vendor, state, federal, foreign, and other contracts and delays in the timing of regulatory approval of contracts, including due to protests; the expiration, suspension, or termination of our contracts with federal or state governments (including, but not limited to, Medicaid, Medicare or other customers); the difficulty of predicting the timing or outcome of legal or regulatory audits, investigations, proceedings or matters, including, but not limited to, our ability to resolve claims and/or allegations made by states with regard to past practices, including at Centene Pharmacy Services (formerly Envolve Pharmacy Solutions, Inc. (Envolve)), as our pharmacy benefits manager (PBM) subsidiary, within the reserve estimate we previously reported and on other acceptable terms, or at all, or whether additional claims, reviews or investigations will be brought by states, the federal government or shareholder litigants, or government investigations; challenges to our contract awards; cyber-attacks or other data security incidents; the exertion of management's time and our resources, and other expenses incurred and business changes required in connection with complying with the terms of our contracts and the undertakings in connection with any regulatory, governmental, or third party consents or approvals for acquisitions or dispositions; any changes in expected closing dates, estimated purchase price, or accretion for acquisitions or dispositions; losses in our investment portfolio; restrictions and limitations in connection with our indebtedness; a downgrade of our corporate family rating, issuer rating or credit rating of our indebtedness; and the availability of debt and equity financing on terms that are favorable to us. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. We discuss certain of these matters more fully, as well as certain other factors that may affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Due to these important factors and risks, we cannot give assurances with respect to our future performance, including without limitation our ability to maintain adequate premium levels or our ability to control our future medical and selling, general and administrative costs. T able of Contents SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should be aware of in evaluating our business, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following, all of which are more fully described in Part 1, Item 1A "Risk Factors". This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. Failure to accurately estimate and price our medical expenses or effectively manage our medical costs or related administrative costs could have a material adverse effect on our business; Our Medicare programs are subject to a variety of unique risks that could adversely impact our financial results; Risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our business; Any failure to adequately price or anticipate demand for products offered, anticipate changes to the competitive landscape or any reduction in products offered for Medicare Advantage and in the Health Insurance Marketplace may have a material adverse effect on our business; If we are not successful in procuring new government contracts or renewing existing government contracts, or if we receive an adverse finding or review resulting from an audit or investigation, our business may be adversely affected; We derive a portion of our cash flow and gross margin from our prescription drug plan (PDP) operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. The results of our bids could have a material adverse effect on our business; Our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs; Increases in our pharmaceutical costs could have a material adverse effect on the level of our medical costs and our results of operations; Ineffectiveness of state-operated systems and subcontractors could adversely affect our business; If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries to us, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our business strategy; We derive a significant portion of our premium revenues from operations in a number of states, and our business could be materially adversely affected by a decrease in premium revenues or profitability in any one of those states; Competition may limit our ability to increase penetration of the markets that we serve; We operate in a highly competitive, dynamic and rapidly evolving industry and our failure to adapt could negatively impact our business; If our vendors fail to meet their contractual obligations to us or fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, our results of operations may be adversely affected and we may be exposed to brand and reputational harm, litigation and/or regulatory action; If we are unable to maintain relationships with our provider networks, our profitability may be materially adversely affected; If we or our third-party vendors are unable to integrate and manage information systems and networks effectively, our operations could be disrupted; A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, networks or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks and other data security incidents, could have a material adverse effect on our business; We may be unable to attract, retain or effectively manage the succession of key personnel; An impairment charge with respect to our recorded goodwill, intangible assets and real estate portfolio could have a material impact on our results of operations and shareholders' equity; Reductions in funding, changes to eligibility requirements for government-sponsored healthcare programs in which we participate, and any inability on our part to effectively adapt to changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business; Significant changes or judicial challenges to the ACA could materially and adversely affect our business; Our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could force us to change how we operate and could harm our reputation and business; Our pharmacy services face regulatory and other competitive risks and uncertainties which could materially and adversely affect our business; We have been and may from time to time become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which require significant attention from our management and could adversely affect our business; T able of Contents If we fail to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws, regulations, rules, standards and contractual obligations, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business could be materially and adversely affected; If we fail to comply with the extensive federal and state fraud, waste and abuse laws, our business could be materially and adversely affected; We might be adversely impacted by tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions; Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity; Adverse credit market conditions may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms; We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Such indebtedness could reduce our agility and may adversely affect our financial condition; Previous or future acquisitions may not perform as expected and we may not realize the financial results expected from acquisitions or divestitures, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline; We may be unable to successfully integrate our existing business with acquired businesses and realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions; and Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we fail to manage and complete divestitures. T able of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Presentation The Company is providing certain non-GAAP financial measures in this report as the Company believes that these figures are helpful in allowing investors to more accurately assess the ongoing nature of the Company's operations and measure the Company's performance more consistently across periods. The Company uses the presented non-GAAP financial measures internally in evaluating the Company's performance and for planning purposes, by allowing management to focus on period-to-period changes in the Company's core business operations, and in determining employee incentive compensation. Therefore, the Company believes that this information is meaningful in addition to the information contained in the GAAP presentation of financial information. The Company strongly encourages investors to review its consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and cautions investors that the non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Specifically, the Company believes the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures that excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition and divestiture related expenses, as well as other items, allows investors to develop a more meaningful understanding of the Company's core performance over time. The tables below provide reconciliations of non-GAAP items ($ in millions, except per share data): Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 GAAP net earnings attributable to Centene $ 2,702 $ 1,202 $ 1,347 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 718 817 770 Acquisition and divestiture related expenses 70 213 185 Other adjustments (1) 464 1,540 1,275 Income tax effects of adjustments (2) (308) (410) (537) Adjusted net earnings $ 3,646 $ 3,362 $ 3,040 GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Centene $ 4.95 $ 2.07 $ 2.28 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 1.32 1.40 1.31 Acquisition and divestiture related expenses 0.13 0.36 0.31 Other adjustments (1) 0.85 2.65 2.16 Income tax effects of adjustments (2) (0.57) (0.70) (0.91) Adjusted diluted EPS $ 6.68 $ 5.78 $ 5.15 (1) Other adjustments include the following pre-tax items: 2023 : (a) Circle Health Group (Circle Health) impairment of $292 million, or $0.53 per share ($0.47 after-tax), Operose Health Group (Operose Health) impairment of $140 million, or $0.26 per share ($0.24 after-tax), real estate impairments of $105 million, or $0.19 per share ($0.16 after-tax), gain on the sale of Apixio of $93 million, or $0.17 per share ($0.12 after-tax), severance costs due to a restructuring of $79 million, or $0.15 per share ($0.11 after-tax), gain on the sale of Magellan Specialty Health of $79 million, or $0.14 per share ($0.11 after-tax), a reduction to the previously reported gain on the sale of Magellan Rx of $22 million, or $0.04 per share ($0.02 after-tax), gain on the previously reported divestiture of Centurion of $15 million, or $0.03 per share ($0.02 after-tax) and an additional loss on the divestiture of our Spanish and Central European businesses of $13 million, or $0.02 per share ($0.01 after-tax). i T able of Contents 2022 : (b) real estate impairments of $1,642 million, or $2.82 per share ($2.08 after-tax), PANTHERx Rare (PANTHERx) divestiture gain of $490 million, or $0.84 per share ($0.65 after-tax), impairments of assets associated with the divestitures of our Spanish and Central European, Centurion and HealthSmart businesses of $458 million, or $0.78 per share ($0.60 after-tax), Magellan Rx divestiture gain of $269 million, or $0.46 per share ($0.17 after-tax), Health Net Federal Services asset impairment of $233 million, or $0.40 per share ($0.39 after-tax), gain on debt extinguishment of $27 million, or $0.04 per share ($0.03 after-tax), increase to the previously reported gain on the divestiture of U.S. Medical Management (USMM) due to the finalization of working capital adjustments of $13 million, or $0.02 per share ($0.02 after-tax) and costs related to the PBM legal settlement of $6 million, or $0.01 per share ($0.00 after-tax). 2021 : (c) PBM legal settlement expense of $1,264 million, or $2.14 per share ($1.76 after-tax), gain related to the acquisition of the remaining 60% interest of Circle Health of $309 million, or $0.52 per share ($0.52 after-tax), impairment of our equity method investment in RxAdvance of $229 million, or $0.39 per share ($0.32 after-tax), gain related to the divestiture of USMM of $150 million, or $0.25 per share ($0.23 after-tax), debt extinguishment costs of $125 million, or $0.21 per share ($0.16 after-tax), reduction to the previously reported gain on divestiture of certain products of our Illinois health plan of $62 million, or $0.10 per share ($0.08 after-tax) and severance costs due to a restructuring of $54 million, or $0.09 per share ($0.06 after-tax). (2) The income tax effects of adjustments are based on the effective income tax rates applicable to each adjustment. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2023, includes a one-time income tax benefit of $69 million, or $0.13 per share, resulting from the distribution of long-term stock awards to the estate of the Company's former CEO and tax expense of $3 million, or $0.01 per share, related to tax adjustments on previously reported divestitures. The year ended December 31, 2022, includes tax expense of $107 million, or $0.18 per share, related to the Magellan Specialty Health divestiture and a $15 million, or $0.03 per share, tax benefit related to the RxAdvance impairment. Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses $ 12,563 $ 11,589 $ 9,601 Less: Acquisition and divestiture related expenses 69 202 157 Restructuring costs 79 54 Costs related to the PBM legal settlement 6 14 Real estate optimization 8 15 Adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses $ 12,407 $ 11,366 $ 9,376 Note: Beginning in 2022, we have included a separate line item for depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, which was previously included in selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses. Prior period SG A expenses have been conformed to the current presentation. ii T able of Contents PART I Item 1. Business OVERVIEW Our mission is to transform the health of the communities we serve, one person at a time. Centene is a leading provider of government-sponsored healthcare. We provide access to quality healthcare for nearly 1 in 15 individuals nationwide through government-sponsored programs, including Medicaid, Medicare and the Health Insurance Marketplace. Our focus is on improving health and health care for low-income, complex populations. Centene provides access to high-quality healthcare, innovative programs and a wide range of health solutions that help families and individuals get well, stay well and be well. Our uniquely local approach with local brands and local teams who live in, care about and directly influence the communities they serve is a key differentiator in our ability to provide access to quality care to our members. Centene treats the whole person, an approach that is delivered locally but backed by the scale of Centene's expertise, data and resources. Through this approach and our commitment to sustainable partnerships, we work with local community organizations to realize our mission of transforming the health of the communities we serve, one person at a time. We are focused on making strategic decisions and investments to create additional value in the short-term and to seek opportunities that position the organization for long-term strength, profitability, growth and innovation. In addition to creating shareholder value, we are modernizing and improving how we work in order to propel our organization to new levels of success and elevate the member and provider experiences. During 2023, we operated in four segments: Medicaid, Medicare, Commercial and Other. Medicaid - includes the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program; Medicaid Expansion programs; the Aged, Blind or Disabled (ABD) program; the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP); Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS); Foster Care; Medicare-Medicaid Plans (MMP), which cover beneficiaries who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare; and other state-based programs. Medicare - includes Medicare Advantage, Medicare Supplement, Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs) and Medicare Prescription Drug Plans (PDP), also known as Medicare Part D. Commercial - includes the Health Insurance Marketplace product along with individual, small group and large group commercial health insurance products. Other - includes our pharmacy operations, Envolve Benefit Options' vision and dental services, clinical healthcare, behavioral health, international operations and corporate management companies, among others. Our international businesses, Operose Health Group (Operose Health) and Circle Health Group (Circle Health), were divested in December 2023 and January 2024, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our Medicaid, Medicare, Commercial and Other segments accounted for 66%, 14%, 16% and 4%, respectively, of our total external revenues. Our membership totaled 27.5 million as of December 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our total revenues and net earnings attributable to Centene were $154.0 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, and our total cash flow from operations was $8.1 billion. Our initial health plan commenced operations in Wisconsin in 1984. We were organized in Wisconsin in 1993 as a holding company for our initial health plan and reincorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CNC." 1 T able of Contents INDUSTRY AND OPERATIONS We provide a full spectrum of managed healthcare products and services, primarily through Medicaid, Medicare and commercial products. Medicaid Medicaid is the largest publicly funded program in the United States and provides health insurance to low-income families and individuals with disabilities. Medicaid is funded jointly by federal and state governments, with the majority of funding provided by the federal government and administered by the states. Each state establishes its own eligibility standards, benefit packages, payment rates and program administration within federal standards. As a result, there are 56 Medicaid programs - one for each U.S. state, each U.S. territory and the District of Columbia. Eligibility is based on a combination of household income and assets, often determined by an income level relative to the federal poverty level. Many states have selected Medicaid managed care as a means of delivering quality healthcare and controlling costs. Medicaid helps meet the needs of various populations through the following products and programs: The Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program covers low-income families with children. Medicaid Expansion covers all individuals under age 65 with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level, subject to each states' election. The federal government pays 90% of the costs for Medicaid Expansion coverage for these beneficiaries. The Aged, Blind or Disabled (ABD) program covers low-income individuals with chronic physical disabilities or behavioral health impairments. ABD beneficiaries represent a growing portion of all Medicaid recipients and typically utilize more services as a result of their more complicated health status. The Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) helps to expand coverage primarily to children whose families earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, yet not enough to afford private health insurance. Historically, children have represented the largest Medicaid eligible population. Costs are primarily composed of pediatrics and family care, which tend to be more predictable than those associated with other healthcare issues predominantly affecting the adult population. Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS) is a Medicaid product that covers Institutional/Residential Care (Nursing and Intermediate Care Facilities) and Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) for beneficiaries requiring assistance with their activities of daily living. The largest groups receiving LTSS, by spending, are older individuals and individuals with physical disabilities, followed by individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities, those with serious mental illness and/or serious emotional disturbance and other populations. States are increasingly turning to managed care as a solution to provide coordinated, holistic care to their LTSS beneficiaries. The majority of children in foster care qualify for Medicaid. The federal government has enacted legislation establishing requirements for state child welfare agencies related to the health and well-being of children in foster care, including the provision of grants and technical assistance to enable states to meet these needs and make explicit connections with Medicaid. In addition, under the ACA, former foster care children are eligible for Medicaid until the age of 26, provided that they turned 18 while in foster care and were enrolled in Medicaid at that time. A portion of Medicaid beneficiaries are dual-eligible, low-income seniors and people with disabilities who are enrolled in both Medicaid and Medicare. According to the CMS, there were approximately 12.4 million dual-eligible enrollees in 2022. These members may receive assistance from Medicaid for benefits, such as nursing home care, HCBS and/or assistance with Medicare premiums and cost-sharing depending on their income level. Dual-eligibles use more services due to their tendency to have more chronic health issues. We serve dual-eligibles primarily through our ABD, LTSS, Medicare-Medicaid Plan (MMP) and Medicare Advantage Dual Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNPs) lines of business. 2 T able of Contents While Medicaid programs have directed fu