Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. Reserved 41 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B. Other Information 103 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Implications 103 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 103 Item 11. Executive Compensation 103 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 103 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 103 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 104 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 104 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 109 Signatures 110 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All statements, other than statements of current or historical fact, contained in this filing are forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, forward-looking statements often use words such as "believe," "anticipate," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "intend," "seek," "target," "goal," "may," "will," "would," "could," "should," "can," "continue" and other similar words or expressions (and the negative thereof). Centene Corporation and its subsidiaries (Centene, the Company, our or we) intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe-harbor provisions. In particular, these statements include, without limitation, statements about our future operating or financial performance, market opportunity, value creation strategy, competition, expected activities in completed and future acquisitions, including statements about the impact of our recently completed acquisition of Magellan Health (the Magellan Acquisition), other recent and future acquisitions and dispositions, investments and the adequacy of our available cash resources. These statements may be found in the various sections of this filing, such as Part I, Item 1. "Business," Part I, Item IA "Risk Factors," Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings," and Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on numerous assumptions and assessments made by us in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, business strategies, operating environments, future developments and other factors we believe appropriate. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties and are subject to change because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future, including economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. All forward-looking statements included in this filing are based on information available to us on the date of this filing. Except as may be otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements included in this filing, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date of this filing. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, as actual results may differ materially from projections, estimates, or other forward-looking statements due to a variety of important factors, variables and events including, but not limited to: our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage health benefits and other operating expenses and reserves, including fluctuations in medical utilization rates due to the impact of COVID-19; the risk that the election of new directors, changes in senior management and inability to retain key personnel may create uncertainty or negatively impact our ability to execute quickly and effectively; uncertainty as to the expected financial performance of the combined company following the recent completion of the Magellan Acquisition; the possibility that the expected synergies and value creation from the Magellan Acquisition or the WellCare Acquisition (or other acquired businesses) will not be realized, or will not be realized within the respective expected time periods; the risk that unexpected costs will be incurred in connection with the integration of the Magellan Acquisition or that the integration of Magellan Health will be more difficult or time consuming than expected, or similar risks from other acquisitions we may announce or complete from time to time; disruption from the integration of the Magellan Acquisition or from the integration of the WellCare Acquisition, or similar risks from other acquisitions we may announce or complete from time to time, including potential adverse reactions or changes to business relationships with customers, employees, suppliers or regulators, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; a downgrade of the credit rating of our indebtedness; competition; membership and revenue declines or unexpected trends; changes in healthcare practices, new technologies, and advances in medicine; increased healthcare costs; changes in economic, political or market conditions; changes in federal or state laws or regulations, including changes with respect to income tax reform or government healthcare programs as well as changes with respect to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to as the ACA) and any regulations enacted thereunder that may result from changing political conditions, the new administration or judicial actions; Table of Contents rate cuts or other payment reductions or delays by governmental payors and other risks and uncertainties affecting our government businesses; our ability to adequately price products; tax matters; disasters or major epidemics; changes in expected contract start dates; provider, state, federal, foreign and other contract changes and timing of regulatory approval of contracts; the expiration, suspension, or termination of our contracts with federal or state governments (including, but not limited to, Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE or other customers); the difficulty of predicting the timing or outcome of legal or regulatory proceedings or matters, including, but not limited to, our ability to resolve claims and/or allegations made by states with regard to past practices, including at Envolve Pharmacy Solutions, Inc. (Envolve), as our pharmacy benefits manager (PBM) subsidiary, within the reserve estimate we have recorded and on other acceptable terms, or at all, or whether additional claims, reviews or investigations relating to our PBM business will be brought by states, the federal government or shareholder litigants, or government investigations; timing and extent of benefits from strategic value creation initiatives, including the possibility that these initiatives will not be successful, or will not be realized within the expected time periods; challenges to our contract awards; cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents; the exertion of management's time and our resources, and other expenses incurred and business changes required in connection with complying with the undertakings in connection with any regulatory, governmental or third party consents or approvals for acquisitions; changes in expected closing dates, estimated purchase price and accretion for acquisitions; the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully; restrictions and limitations in connection with our indebtedness; our ability to maintain or achieve improvement in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Star ratings and maintain or achieve improvement in other quality scores in each case that can impact revenue and future growth; availability of debt and equity financing, on terms that are favorable to us; inflation; and foreign currency fluctuations. This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. We discuss certain of these matters more fully, as well as certain other factors that may affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of Part I of this filing contains a further discussion of these and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations. Due to these important factors and risks, we cannot give assurances with respect to our future performance, including without limitation our ability to maintain adequate premium levels or our ability to control our future medical and selling, general and administrative costs. Table of Contents SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should be aware of in evaluating our business, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following, all of which are more fully described in Part 1, Item 1A "Risk Factors". This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. Our business could be materially adversely affected by the effects of widespread public health pandemics, such as COVID-19; Our Medicare programs are subject to a variety of unique risks that could adversely impact our financial results; Failure to accurately estimate and price our medical expenses or effectively manage our medical costs or related administrative costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows; Risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; Any failure to adequately price products offered or any reduction in products offered in the Health Insurance Marketplaces may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows; We derive a portion of our cash flow and gross margin from our prescription drug plan (PDP) operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. The results of our bids could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; Our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs; If any of our government contracts are terminated or are not renewed on favorable terms or at all, or if we receive an adverse finding or review resulting from an audit or investigation, our business may be adversely affected; Ineffectiveness of state-operated systems and subcontractors could adversely affect our business; Execution of our value creation strategy may create disruptions in our business; If competing managed care programs are unwilling to purchase specialty services from us, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy of diversifying our business lines; If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries to us, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our business strategy; We derive a significant portion of our premium revenues from operations in a limited number of states, and our results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be materially affected by a decrease in premium revenues or profitability in any one of those states; Competition may limit our ability to increase penetration of the markets that we serve; If we are unable to maintain relationships with our provider networks, our profitability may be harmed; If we are unable to integrate and manage our information systems effectively, our operations could be disrupted; An impairment charge with respect to our recorded goodwill and intangible assets could have a material impact on our results of operations; A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business; We may be unable to attract, retain or effectively manage the succession of key personnel; Reductions in funding, changes to eligibility requirements for government sponsored healthcare programs in which we participate and any inability on our part to effectively adapt to changes to these programs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows; Significant changes or judicial challenges to the ACA could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows; Our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could force us to change how we operate and could harm our business; Our businesses providing pharmacy benefits management and specialty pharmacy services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows; We have been and may from time to time, become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which require significant attention from our management, and could adversely affect our business; Table of Contents If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security, and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected; If we fail to comply with the extensive federal and state fraud, waste and abuse laws, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected; Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity; Adverse credit market conditions may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms; We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Such indebtedness could reduce our agility and may adversely affect our financial condition; Changes in the method pursuant to which the LIBOR rates are determined and the phasing out of LIBOR may affect the value of the financial obligations to be held or issued by us that are linked to LIBOR or our results of operations or financial condition; Mergers and acquisitions may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline; We may be unable to successfully integrate our existing business with acquired businesses and realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions; Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we fail to manage and complete divestitures; and Future issuances and sales of additional shares of preferred or common stock could reduce the market price of our shares of common stock. Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Presentation The Company is providing certain non-GAAP financial measures in this report as the Company believes that these figures are helpful in allowing investors to more accurately assess the ongoing nature of the Company's operations and measure the Company's performance more consistently across periods. The Company uses the presented non-GAAP financial measures internally to allow management to focus on period-to-period changes in the Company's core business operations. Therefore, the Company believes that this information is meaningful in addition to the information contained in the GAAP presentation of financial information. The presentation of this additional non-GAAP financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Specifically, the Company believes the presentation of non-GAAP financial information that excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition related expenses, as well as other items, allows investors to develop a more meaningful understanding of the Company's performance over time. The tables below provide reconciliations of non-GAAP items ($ in millions, except per share data). Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 GAAP net earnings attributable to Centene $ 1,347 $ 1,808 $ 1,321 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 770 719 258 Acquisition related expenses 185 602 104 Other adjustments (1) 1,275 29 301 Income tax effects of adjustments (2) (537) (262) (127) Adjusted net earnings $ 3,040 $ 2,896 $ 1,857 GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) attributable to Centene $ 2.28 $ 3.12 $ 3.14 Amortization of acquired intangible assets (3) 1.00 0.95 0.47 Acquisition related expenses (4) 0.24 0.86 0.19 Other adjustments (1) 1.63 0.07 0.62 Adjusted Diluted EPS $ 5.15 $ 5.00 $ 4.42 (1) Other adjustments include the following items: 2021 : (a) legal settlement expense and related legal fees of $1,264 million, or $1.76 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.38; (b) debt extinguishment costs of $125 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.05; (c) severance costs due to a restructuring of $54 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.03; (d) a reduction to the previously reported gain due to the finalization of the working capital adjustment related to the divestiture of certain products of our Illinois health plan of $62 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.02; (e) non-cash gain related to the acquisition of the remaining 60% interest of Circle Health of $309 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, net of income tax expense of $0.00; (f) non-cash impairment of our equity method investment in RxAdvance of $229 million, or $0.32 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.07; and (g) gain related to the divestiture of U.S. Medical Management (USMM) of $150 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, net of income tax expense of $0.02. i Table of Contents 2020 : (a) debt extinguishment costs of $61 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.04; (b) gain related to the divestiture of certain products of our Illinois health plan of $104 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, net of income tax expense of $0.08; and (c) non-cash impairment of $72 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.02. 2019 : (a) non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment of $271 million, or $0.57 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.08; and (b) debt extinguishment costs of $30 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, net of an income tax benefit of $0.02. (2) The income tax effects of adjustments are based on the effective income tax rates applicable to each adjustment. (3) Amortization of acquired intangible assets is net of an income tax benefit of $0.31, $0.29, and $0.14 per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (4) Acquisition related expenses are net of an income tax benefit of $0.07, $0.18 and $0.06 per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses $ 10,166 $ 9,867 $ 6,533 Less: Acquisition related expenses 157 580 85 Restructuring costs 54 Legal fees related to legal settlement 14 Adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses $ 9,941 $ 9,287 $ 6,448 ii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business OVERVIEW We are a leading multi-national healthcare enterprise that is committed to helping people live healthier lives. We take a local approach - with local brands and local teams - to provide fully integrated, high-quality, and cost-effective services to government-sponsored and commercial healthcare programs, focusing on under-insured and uninsured individuals. We also provide education and outreach programs to inform and assist members in accessing quality, appropriate healthcare services. We believe our local approach, including member and provider services, enables us to provide accessible, quality, culturally-sensitive healthcare coverage to our communities. Our population health management, educational and other initiatives are designed to help members best utilize the healthcare system to ensure they receive appropriate, medically necessary services and effective management of routine, severe and chronic health problems, resulting in better health outcomes. We combine our decentralized local approach for care with a centralized infrastructure of support functions such as finance, information systems and claims processing. Our initial health plan commenced operations in Wisconsin in 1984. We were organized in Wisconsin in 1993 as a holding company for our initial health plan and reincorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CNC." We operate in two segments: Managed Care and Specialty Services. Our Managed Care segment provides health plan coverage to individuals through government subsidized and commercial programs. Our Specialty Services segment includes companies offering diversified healthcare services and products to our Managed Care segment and other external customers. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our Managed Care and Specialty Services segments accounted for 95% and 5%, respectively, of our total external revenues. Our membership totaled 26.6 million as of December 31, 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our total revenues and net earnings attributable to Centene were $126.0 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and our total cash flow from operations was $4.2 billion. Magellan Acquisition On January 4, 2022, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Magellan Health, Inc. (Magellan) for a total purchase price of approximately $2.6 billion. The Magellan acquisition enables Centene to provide whole-health, integrated healthcare solutions to deliver better health outcomes at lower costs for complex, high-cost populations. INDUSTRY We provide a full spectrum of managed healthcare products and services, primarily through Medicaid, Medicare and commercial products. We currently have operations domestically and internationally. Medicaid Established in 1965, Medicaid is the largest publicly funded program in the United States, and provides health insurance to low-income families and individuals with disabilities. Authorized by Title XIX of the Social Security Act, Medicaid is an entitlement program funded jointly by the federal and state governments and administered by the states. The majority of funding is provided by the federal government. Each state establishes its own eligibility standards, benefit packages, payment rates and program administration within federal standards. As a result, there are 56 Medicaid programs - one for each U.S. state, each U.S. territory and the District of Columbia. Eligibility is based on a combination of household income and assets, often determined by an income level relative to the federal poverty level. Historically, children have represented the largest eligibility group. Many states have selected Medicaid managed care as a means of delivering quality healthcare and controlling costs. We refer to these states as mandatory managed care states. Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Medicaid coverage was expanded to all individuals under age 65 with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level, subject to the states' elections. The federal government paid 90% of the costs for Medicaid Expansion coverage for newly eligible beneficiaries in 2021. Assuming that the current program remains in effect unchanged, in subsequent years the federal share is scheduled to remain at 90%. Established in 1972 and authorized by Title XVI of the Social Security Act, the Aged, Blind, or Disabled (ABD) program covers low-income persons with chronic physical disabilities or behavioral health impairments. ABD beneficiaries represent a 1 Table of Contents growing portion of all Medicaid recipients. In addition, ABD recipients typically utilize more services as a result of their more complicated health status. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 created the State Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) to help states expand coverage primarily to children whose families earned too much to qualify for Medicaid, yet not enough to afford private health insurance. Costs related to the largest eligibility group, children, are primarily composed of pediatrics and family care. These costs tend to be more predictable than those associated with other healthcare issues which predominantly affect the adult population. Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS) is a Medicaid product that covers Institutional/Residential Care (Nursing Facilities, Intermediate Care Facilities) and Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) for beneficiaries requiring assistance with their activities of daily living, such as bathing, dressing and transferring. The most common HCBS services include personal care, adult day care, non-emergent transportation, home-delivered meals and personal emergency response systems. LTSS services are provided for individuals requiring nursing home level of care, receiving waiver services, or entitled to state Medicaid LTSS benefits. The largest groups receiving LTSS, by spending, are older individuals and individuals with physical disabilities, followed by individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities, those with serious mental illness and/or serious emotional disturbance and other populations. States are increasingly turning to managed care as a solution to provide coordinated, holistic care to their LTSS beneficiaries. According to ADvancing States (formerly National Association of States United for Aging and Disabilities), as of August 2021, 25 states utilize some form of managed LTSS. The majority of youth and children in foster care qualify for Medicaid, most commonly through Title IV-E of the Social Security Act, which provides funding to support safe and stable out-of-home care for children who are removed from their homes. The federal government has enacted legislation establishing guidelines and requirements for state child welfare agencies related to the health and well-being of children in foster care, including the provision of grants and technical assistance to enable states to meet these needs and make explicit connections with state Medicaid. In addition, the ACA requires states to make former foster care children eligible for Medicaid until they reach the age of 26, provided that they turned 18 while in foster care, and were enrolled in Medicaid at that time. As of the first quarter of 2020, CMS estimated the total Medicaid market to be approximately $684 billion in 2021, and estimates the market will grow to over $1.0 trillion by 2028. Medicaid spending is estimated to have increased by 5.5% in 2021 and is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 5.8% between 2021 and 2028. Due to the timing of the CMS report and highly uncertain nature of the pandemic, the aforementioned projections do not take into account the impact of COVID-19. A portion of Medicaid beneficiaries are dual-eligible, low-income seniors and people with disabilities who are enrolled in both Medicaid and Medicare. According to CMS, there were approximately 11.3 million dual-eligible enrollees in 2020. These dual-eligible members may receive assistance from Medicaid for benefits, such as nursing home care, HCBS, and/or assistance with Medicare premiums and cost sharing. Dual-eligibles also use more services due to their tendency to have more chronic health issues. We serve dual-eligibles through our ABD, LTSS, Medicare-Medicaid Plans (MMP), Medicare Advantage Dual Special Needs Plan (DSNP) and standard Medicare Advantage lines of business. While Medicaid programs have directed funds to many individuals who cannot afford or otherwise maintain health insurance coverage, they did not initially address the inefficient and c