Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 51 Item 2. Properties 51 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 52 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 52 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 52 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 53 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 99 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 102 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 204 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 204 Item 9B. Other Information 207 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 207 Item 11. Executive Compensation 208 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 208 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 208 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 208 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 209 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 210 i GLOSSARY ACE Affordable Clean Energy ADFIT Accumulated deferred federal income taxes ADMS Advanced Distribution Management System AEM Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos Energy Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Atmos Energy Corporation AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AGC Alcoa Generating Corporation, a subsidiary of Alcoa, Inc. Athena Energy Services Athena Energy Services Buyer, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of Energy Capital Partners, LLC AMAs Asset Management Agreements AMS Advanced Metering System APSC Arkansas Public Service Commission ARAM Average rate assumption method ARO Asset retirement obligation ARP Alternative revenue program ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update AT T AT T Inc. AT T Common AT T common stock Bailey to Jones Creek Project A transmission project in the greater Freeport, Texas area, which includes enhancements to two existing substations and the construction of a new 345 kV double-circuit line to be located in the counties of Brazoria, Matagorda and Wharton Bcf Billion cubic feet Bond Companies Bankruptcy remote entities wholly-owned by Houston Electric and formed solely for the purpose of purchasing and owning transition or system restoration property through the issuance of Securitization Bonds, consisting of Bond Company II, Bond Company III, Bond Company IV and Restoration Bond Company Bond Company II CenterPoint Energy Transition Bond Company II, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric Bond Company III CenterPoint Energy Transition Bond Company III, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric Bond Company IV CenterPoint Energy Transition Bond Company IV, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric Brazos Valley Connection A portion of the Houston region transmission project between Houston Electric s Zenith substation and the Gibbons Creek substation owned by the Texas Municipal Power Agency Bridge Facility A $5 billion 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan facility BTA Best technology available CCR Coal Combustion Residuals CEA Commodities Exchange Act of 1936 CECA Clean Energy Cost Adjustment CECL Current expected credit losses CEIP CenterPoint Energy Intrastate Pipelines, LLC CenterPoint Energy CenterPoint Energy, Inc., and its subsidiaries CERC Corp. CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. CERC CERC Corp., together with its subsidiaries CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended CES CenterPoint Energy Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission Charter Common Charter Communications, Inc. common stock CIP Conservation Improvement Program CME Chicago Mercantile Exchange CNG Compressed natural gas ii GLOSSARY CNP Midstream CenterPoint Energy Midstream, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy Code The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended Common Stock CenterPoint Energy, Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share Continuum The retail energy services business of Continuum Retail Energy Services, LLC, including its wholly-owned subsidiary Lakeshore Energy Services, LLC and the natural gas wholesale assets of Continuum Energy Services, LLC CPP Clean Power Plan CSIA Compliance and System Improvement Adjustment DCA Distribution Contractors Association DCRF Distribution Cost Recovery Factor Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 DOT U.S. Department of Transportation DRR Distribution Replacement Rider DSMA Demand Side Management Adjustment Dth Dekatherms ECA Environmental Cost Adjustment EDIT Excess deferred income taxes EECR Energy Efficiency Cost Recovery EECRF Energy Efficiency Cost Recovery Factor EGT Enable Gas Transmission, LLC EIN Employer Identification Number ELG Effluent Limitation Guidelines Enable Enable Midstream Partners, LP Enable GP Enable GP, LLC, Enable s general partner Enable Series A Preferred Units Enable s 10% Series A Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units, representing limited partner interests in Enable EPA Environmental Protection Agency EPAct of 2005 Energy Policy Act of 2005 Equity Purchase Agreement Equity Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2020, by and between CERC Corp. and Athena Energy Services ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas ERCOT ISO ERCOT Independent System Operator ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ERO Electric Reliability Organization ESG Energy Systems Group, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren ESPC Energy Savings Performance Contracting FAC Fuel Adjustment Clause FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FIP Funding Improvement Plan Fitch Fitch Ratings, Inc. FPA Federal Power Act FRP Formula Rate Plan Gas Daily Platts gas daily indices GenOn GenOn Energy, Inc. GHG Greenhouse gases GRIP Gas Reliability Infrastructure Program GWh Gigawatt-hours Hart-Scott-Rodino Act Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended Houston Electric CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC and its subsidiaries HVAC Heating, ventilation and air conditioning iii GLOSSARY IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ICA Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 ICPA Inter-Company Power Agreement IDEM Indiana Department of Environmental Management IG Intelligent Grid Indiana Electric Operations of SIGECO s electric transmission and distribution services, and includes its power generating and wholesale power operations Indiana Gas Indiana Gas Company, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren Infrastructure Services Provides underground pipeline construction and repair services through Vectren s wholly-owned subsidiaries Miller Pipeline, LLC and Minnesota Limited, LLC Internal Spin CERC s contribution of its equity investment in Enable to CNP Midstream (detailed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements) IRP Integrated Resource Plan IRS Internal Revenue Service IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission kV Kilovolt LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LNG Liquefied natural gas LPSC Louisiana Public Service Commission LTIPs Long-term incentive plans MATS Mercury and Air Toxics MCRA MISO Cost and Revenue Adjustment Meredith Meredith Corporation Merger The merger of Merger Sub with and into Vectren on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, with Vectren continuing as the surviving corporation and as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy, Inc., which closed on February 1, 2019 Merger Agreement Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 21, 2018, among CenterPoint Energy, Vectren and Merger Sub Merger Sub Pacer Merger Sub, Inc., an Indiana corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy MES Mobile Energy Solutions MGP Manufactured gas plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator MLP Master Limited Partnership MMBtu One million British thermal units MMcf Million cubic feet Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. MP2017 2017 pension mortality improvement scale developed annually by the Society of Actuaries MP2018 2018 pension mortality improvement scale developed annually by the Society of Actuaries MPSC Mississippi Public Service Commission MPUC Minnesota Public Utilities Commission MRT Enable-Mississippi River Transmission, LLC Mva Megavolt amperes MW Megawatt NECA National Electrical Contractors Association NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NESHAPS National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants NGA Natural Gas Act of 1938 NGD Natural gas distribution business NGLs Natural gas liquids NGPA Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 iv GLOSSARY NGPSA Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 NOPR Notice of Proposed Rulemaking NRG NRG Energy, Inc. NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange OCC Oklahoma Corporation Commission OGE OGE Energy Corp. OPEIU Office Professional Employees International Union OVEC Ohio Valley Electric Corporation PAS Power Alert Service PBRC Performance Based Rate Change PFD Proposal for decision PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PLCA Pipeline Contractors Association PowerTeam Services PowerTeam Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company PRPs Potentially responsible parties PUCO Public Utilities Commission of Ohio PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas Railroad Commission Railroad Commission of Texas RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 RCRA Mechanism Reliability Cost and Revenue Adjustment mechanism Registrants CenterPoint Energy, Houston Electric and CERC, collectively Reliant Energy Reliant Energy, Incorporated REP Retail electric provider Restoration Bond Company CenterPoint Energy Restoration Bond Company, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric Revised Policy Statement Revised Policy Statement on Treatment of Income Taxes RICE MACT Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines Maximum Achievable Control Technology ROE Return on equity RP Rehabilitation Plan RRA Rate Regulation Adjustment RRI Reliant Resources, Inc. RSP Rate Stabilization Plan SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SESH Southeast Supply Header, LLC Securities Purchase Agreement Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 3, 2020, by and among VUSI, PowerTeam Services and, solely for purposes of Section 10.17 of the Securities Purchase Agreement, Vectren Securitization Bonds Transition and system restoration bonds Series A Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s Series A Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share Series B Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s 7.00% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share SIGECO Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren S P S P Global Ratings TBD To be determined TCEH Corp. Formerly Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC, predecessor to Vistra Energy Corp. whose major subsidiaries include Luminant and TXU Energy TCJA Tax reform legislation informally called the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TCOS Transmission Cost of Service v GLOSSARY TCRF Transmission Cost Recovery Factor TDSIC Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge TDU Transmission and distribution utility Time Time Inc. Transition Agreements Services Agreement, Employee Transition Agreement, Transitional Seconding Agreement and other agreements entered into in connection with the formation of Enable Texas RE Texas Reliability Entity TW Time Warner Inc. TW Common TW common stock UESC Utility Energy Services Contract USW United Steelworkers Union Utility Holding Utility Holding, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy VaR Value at Risk Vectren Vectren Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy VEDO Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren VIE Variable interest entity VISCO Vectren Infrastructure Services Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren Vistra Energy Corp. Texas-based energy company focused on the competitive energy and power generation markets VUHI Vectren Utility Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren VUSI Vectren Utility Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren WACC Weighted average cost of capital ZENS 2.0% Zero-Premium Exchangeable Subordinated Notes due 2029 ZENS-Related Securities As of both December 31, 2019 and 2018, consisted of AT T Common and Charter Common 2002 Act Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 2006 Act Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006 2011 Act Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 2016 Act Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 vi CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION From time to time the Registrants make statements concerning their expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance and underlying assumptions and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. You can generally identify forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, may, objective, plan, potential, predict, projection, should, target, will or other similar words. The Registrants have based their forward-looking statements on management s beliefs and assumptions based on information reasonably available to management at the time the statements are made. The Registrants caution you that assumptions, beliefs, expectations, intentions and projections about future events may and often do vary materially from actual results. Therefore, the Registrants cannot assure you that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed or implied by the Registrants forward-looking statements. In this Form 10-K, unless context requires otherwise, the terms our, we and us are used as abbreviated references to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, including Houston Electric and CERC. Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the Registrants forward-looking statements are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Factors Affecting Future Earnings and Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Matters Other Factors That Could Affect Cash Requirements in Item 7 of this report, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and the Registrants undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. vii PART I Item 1. Business This combined Form 10-K is filed separately by three registrants: CenterPoint Energy, Inc., CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC and CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant is filed by such registrant solely on its own behalf. Each registrant makes no representation as to information relating exclusively to the other registrants. Except as discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, no registrant has an obligation in respect of any other registrant s debt securities, and holders of such debt securities should not consider the financial resources or results of operations of any registrant other than the obligor in making a decision with respect to such securities. The discussion of CenterPoint Energy s consolidated financial information includes the financial results of Houston Electric and CERC, which, along with CenterPoint Energy, are collectively referred to as the Registrants. Where appropriate, information relating to a specific registrant has been segregated and labeled as such. Unless the context indicates otherwise, specific references to Houston Electric and CERC also pertain to CenterPoint Energy. In this Form 10-K, the terms our, we and us are used as abbreviated references to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries. OUR BUSINESS Overview CenterPoint Energy is a public utility holding company and owns interests in Enable. CenterPoint Energy s operating subsidiaries own and operate electric transmission and distribution, electric generation and natural gas distribution facilities, supply natural gas to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities and provide underground pipeline construction and repair services, energy performance contracting and sustainable infrastructure services. Houston Electric is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy that provides electric transmission and distribution services to REPs serving the Texas Gulf Coast area that includes the city of Houston. CERC Corp. is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy with operating subsidiaries that own and operate natural gas distribution facilities in six states and supply natural gas to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities in over 30 states. CenterPoint Energy s simplified corporate structure as of December 31, 2019 is shown below: (1) Houston Electric engages in the electric transmission and distribution business in the Texas Gulf Coast area that includes the city of Houston. (2) Bond Companies are wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote entities formed solely for the purpose of purchasing and owning transition or system restoration property through the issuance of Securitization Bonds. 1 (3) CERC s NGD operates natural gas distribution systems in six states. (4) CES obtains and offers competitive variable and fixed-price physical natural gas supplies and services primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities in over 30 states. (5) As of December 31, 2019 , CNP Midstream owned approximately 53.7% of the common units representing limited partner interests in Enable, which owns, operates and develops natural gas and crude oil infrastructure assets; CNP Midstream also owned 50% of the management rights and 40% of the incentive distribution rights in Enable GP. For additional information regarding CenterPoint Energy s interest in Enable, including the 14,520,000 Enable Series A Preferred Units directly owned by CenterPoint Energy, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) Vectren engages in regulated operations through three public utilities: Indiana Gas provides energy delivery services to natural gas customers located in central and southern Indiana; SIGECO provides energy delivery services to electric and natural gas customers and owns and operates electric generation assets to serve its electric customers and optimizes those assets in the wholesale power market; and VEDO provides energy delivery services to natural gas customers in west-central Ohio. Vectren performs non-utility activities through Infrastructure Services, which provides underground pipeline construction and repair services, and through ESG, which provides energy performance contracting and sustainable infrastructure services. On February 3, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary VUSI, entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement to sell the businesses within its Infrastructure Services reportable segment. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, on February 24, 2020, CenterPoint Energy, through its subsidiary CERC Corp., entered into the Equity Purchase Agreement to sell CES, which represents substantially all of the businesses within the Energy Services reportable segment. This transaction does not include CEIP and its assets. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2020. For further information, see Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements. CenterPoint Energy s service territories as of December 31, 2019 are depicted below: 2 As of December 31, 2019 , reportable segments by Registrant are as follows: Registrants Houston Electric T D Indiana Electric Integrated Natural Gas Distribution Energy Services Infrastructure Services Midstream Investments Corporate and Other CenterPoint Energy X X X X X X X Houston Electric X CERC X X X For a discussion of operating income by segment, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations by Reportable Segment in Item 7 of Part II of this report. For additional information about the segments, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we consider the acquisition or the disposition of assets or businesses. The Registrants principal executive offices are located at 1111 Louisiana, Houston, Texas 77002 (telephone number: 713-207-1111). We make available free of charge on our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, we make available free of charge on our Internet website: our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers; our Ethics and Compliance Code; our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and the charters of the audit, compensation, finance and governance committees of our Board of Directors. Any shareholder who so requests may obtain a printed copy of any of these documents from us. Changes in or waivers of our Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers and waivers of our Ethics and Compliance Code for directors or executive officers will be posted on our Internet website within five business days of such change or waiver and maintained for at least 12 months or timely reported on Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. Our website address is www.centerpointenergy.com. Investors should also note that we announce material financial information in SEC filings, press releases and public conference calls. Based on guidance from the SEC, we may use the investor relations section of our website to communicate with our investors. It is possible that the financial and other information posted there could be deemed to be material information. Except to the extent explicitly stated herein, documents and information on our website are not incorporated by reference herein. Houston Electric T D (CenterPoint Energy and Houston Electric) Houston Electric is a transmission and distribution electric utility that operates wholly within the state of Texas and is a member of ERCOT. ERCOT serves as the independent system operator and regional reliability coordinator for member electric power systems in most of Texas. The ERCOT market represents approximately 90% of the demand for power in Texas and is one of the nation s largest power markets. The ERCOT market operates under the reliability standards developed by the NERC, approved by the FERC and monitored and enforced by the Texas RE. The PUCT has primary jurisdiction over the ERCOT market to ensure the adequacy and reliability of electricity supply across the state s main interconnected power transmission grid. Houston Electric does not make direct retail or wholesale sales of electric energy or own or operate any electric generating facilities. Electric Transmission On behalf of REPs, Houston Electric delivers electricity from power plants to substations, from one substation to another and to retail electric customers taking power at or above 69 kV in locations throughout Houston Electric s certificated service territory. Houston Electric constructs and maintains transmission facilities and provides transmission services under tariffs approved by the PUCT. 3 The ERCOT ISO is responsible for operating the bulk electric power supply system in the ERCOT market. Houston Electric s transmission business, along with those of other owners of transmission facilities in Texas, supports the operation of the ERCOT ISO. Houston Electric participates with the ERCOT ISO and other ERCOT utilities to plan, design, obtain regulatory approval for and construct new transmission lines necessary to increase bulk power transfer capability and to remove existing constraints on the ERCOT transmission grid. Electric Distribution In ERCOT, end users purchase their electricity directly from certificated REPs. Houston Electric s distribution network receives electricity from the transmission grid through power distribution substations and delivers electricity for REPs in its certificated service area by carrying lower-voltage power from the substation to the retail electric customer through distribution feeders. Houston Electric s operations include construction and maintenance of distribution facilities, metering services, outage response services and call center operations. Houston Electric provides distribution services under tariffs approved by the PUCT. PUCT rules and market protocols govern the commercial operations of distribution companies and other market participants. Rates for these existing services are established pursuant to rate proceedings conducted before municipalities that have original jurisdiction and the PUCT. Bond Companies Houston Electric has special purpose subsidiaries consisting of the Bond Companies, which it consolidates. These consolidated special purpose subsidiaries are wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote entities that were formed solely for the purpose of purchasing and owning transition or system restoration property through the issuance of Securitization Bonds, and conducting activities incidental thereto. The Securitization Bonds are repaid through charges imposed on customers in Houston Electric s service territory. For further discussion of the Securitization Bonds and the outstanding balances as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Customers Houston Electric serves nearly all of the Houston/Galveston metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2019 , Houston Electric s customers consisted of approximately 68 REPs, which sell electricity to approximately 2.5 million metered customers in Houston Electric s certificated service area, and municipalities, electric cooperatives and other distribution companies located outside Houston Electric s certificated service area. Each REP is licensed by, and must meet minimum creditworthiness criteria established by, the PUCT. Houston Electric does not have long-term contracts with any of its customers. It operates using a continuous billing cycle, with meter readings being conducted and invoices being distributed to REPs each business day. For information regarding Houston Electric s major customers, see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. The table below reflects the number of metered customers in Houston Electric s service area as of December 31, 2019 : Residential Commercial/ Industrial Total Customers Texas Gulf Coast 2,243,188 291,098 2,534,286 Utility Technology Houston Electric s Smart Grid is comprised of the AMS, IG, ADMS and private telecommunications network. Houston Electric has deployed fully operational advanced meters to virtually all of its approximately 2.5 million metered customers, automated 95 substations, installed 1,603 IG Switching Devices and other automation devices on more than 450 circuits, built a wireless radio frequency mesh telecommunications network across Houston Electric s 5,000-square mile footprint, and enabled real-time grid monitoring and control, which leverages information from smart meters and field sensors to manage system events through the ADMS. The Smart Grid continues to improve electric distribution service reliability and restoration, enhance the consumer experience, support the growth of renewable energy and help the environment by reducing carbon emissions. In addition, Houston Electric has implemented leading capabilities with customer service applications and mobile data applications including the PAS. The PAS notification tool alerts over 1.2 million registered customers of power delivery events at or near their home or facility via text, email or phone call. 4 Competition There are no other electric transmission and distribution utilities in Houston Electric s service area. For another provider of transmission and distribution services to provide such services in Houston Electric s territory, it would be required to obtain a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PUCT and, depending on the location of the facilities, may also be required to obtain franchises from one or more municipalities. Houston Electric is not aware of any other party intending to enter this business in its service area at this time. Distributed generation (i.e., power generation located at or near the point of consumption) could result in a reduction of demand for Houston Electric s d