Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 38 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 43 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6. [Reserved] 44 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 82 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 84 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 172 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 172 Item 9B. Other Information 175 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 175 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 176 Item 11. Executive Compensation 176 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 177 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 177 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 177 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 178 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 178 i GLOSSARY ACE Affordable Clean Energy AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AGC Alcoa Generating Corporation, a subsidiary of Alcoa, Inc. AI Artificial intelligence AMAs Asset Management Agreements AMS Advanced Metering System Arevon Arevon Energy, Inc., which was formed through the combination of Capital Dynamics, Inc. s U.S. Clean Energy Infrastructure business unit and Arevon Asset Management ARO Asset retirement obligation AROK Asset Purchase Agreement Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2021, by and between CERC Corp. and Southern Col Midco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and an affiliate of Summit Utilities, Inc. ARP Alternative revenue program ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update AT T AT T Inc. AT T Common AT T common stock ATM Forward Purchasers Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, Citibank, N.A., Goldman Sachs Co. LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, Mizuho Markets Americas LLC, MUFG Securities EMEA plc and Royal Bank of Canada ATM Forward Sellers BofA Securities, Inc. Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman Sachs Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Mizuho Securities USA LLC, MUFG Securities Americas Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, LLC ATM Managers BofA Securities, Inc., Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman Sachs Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Mizuho Securities USA LLC, MUFG Securities Americas Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, LLC Bcf Billion cubic feet Board CenterPoint Energy s Board of Directors Bond Companies Bond Company IV and Restoration Bond Company, each a wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote entity formed solely for the purpose of purchasing and owning transition or system restoration property through the issuance of Securitization Bonds Bond Company IV CenterPoint Energy Transition Bond Company IV, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric BTA Build Transfer Agreement CAMT Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CCN Certificate of Convenience and Necessity CCR Coal Combustion Residuals CECA Clean Energy Cost Adjustment CEIP CenterPoint Energy Intrastate Pipelines, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. CenterPoint Energy CenterPoint Energy, Inc., and its subsidiaries CERC Corp. CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. CERC CERC Corp., together with its subsidiaries CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended CES CenterPoint Energy Services, Inc. (now known as Symmetry Energy Solutions, LLC), previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. until its divestiture on June 1, 2020 Charter Common Charter Communications, Inc. common stock CIP Conservation Improvement Program CNG Compressed natural gas Code The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker Common Stock CenterPoint Energy, Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share Compensation Committee Compensation Committee of the Board ii GLOSSARY Convertible Notes CenterPoint Energy s 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 COVID-19 Novel coronavirus disease 2019, and any mutations or variants thereof, and related global outbreak that was subsequently declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization CPCN Certificate of public convenience and necessity CPP Clean Power Plan CSIA Compliance and System Improvement Adjustment DCRF Distribution Cost Recovery Factor DE I Council Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council DOC U.S. Department of Commerce DOT U.S. Department of Transportation DRR Distribution Replacement Rider DSMA Demand Side Management Adjustment Dth Dekatherms ECA Environmental Cost Adjustment EDF Renewables EDF Renewables Development, Inc. EDIT Excess deferred income taxes EECR Energy Efficiency Cost Recovery EECRF Energy Efficiency Cost Recovery Factor EEFC Energy Efficiency Funding Component EEFR Energy Efficiency Funding Rider ELG Effluent Limitation Guidelines EIA U.S. Energy Information Administration Elk GP Merger Sub Elk GP Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Energy Transfer Elk Merger Sub Elk Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Energy Transfer Enable Enable Midstream Partners, LP Enable Common Units Enable common units, representing limited partnership interests in Enable Enable GP Enable GP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the general partner of Enable Enable Merger The merger of Elk Merger Sub with and into Enable and the merger of Elk GP Merger Sub with and into Enable GP, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Enable Merger Agreement, with Enable and Enable GP surviving as wholly-owned subsidiaries of Energy Transfer, which closed on December 2, 2021 Enable Merger Agreement Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Energy Transfer, Elk Merger Sub, Elk GP Merger Sub, Enable, Enable GP and, solely for the purposes of Section 2.1(a)(i) therein, Energy Transfer GP, and solely for the purposes of Section 1.1(b)(i) therein, CenterPoint Energy Enable Series A Preferred Units Enable s 10% Series A Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units, representing limited partner interests in Enable Energy Services Offered competitive variable and fixed-priced physical natural gas supplies primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities through CES and CEIP Energy Services Disposal Group Substantially all of the businesses within CenterPoint Energy s and CERC s Energy Services reporting unit that were sold under the Equity Purchase Agreement Energy Systems Group Energy Systems Group, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren Energy Transfer Energy Transfer LP, a Delaware limited partnership Energy Transfer Common Units Energy Transfer common units, representing limited partner interests in Energy Transfer Energy Transfer GP LE GP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and sole general partner of Energy Transfer Energy Transfer Series G Preferred Units Energy Transfer Series G Fixed-Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units, representing limited partner interests in Energy Transfer EPA Environmental Protection Agency Equity Distribution Agreement Equity Distribution Agreement, dated as of January 10, 2024, by and between CenterPoint Energy, the ATM Managers, the ATM Forward Purchasers and the ATM Forward Sellers Equity Purchase Agreement Equity Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2023, by and between Vectren Energy Services and ESG Holdings Group iii GLOSSARY ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas ERCOT ISO ERCOT Independent System Operator ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ERG Employee Resource Group ERO Electric Reliability Organization ESG Holdings Group ESG Holdings Group, LLC a Delaware limited liability company, and an affiliate of Oaktree Capital Management FAC Fuel Adjustment Clause FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board February 2021 Winter Storm Event The extreme and unprecedented winter weather event in February 2021 (also known as Winter Storm Uri) resulting in electricity generation supply shortages, including in Texas, and natural gas supply shortages and increased wholesale prices of natural gas in the United States, primarily due to prolonged freezing temperatures. FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Fitch Fitch Ratings, Inc. Form 10-K Annual Report on Form 10-K FPA Federal Power Act General Mortgage General Mortgage Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2002, between CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee, as supplemented GHG Greenhouse gases GRIP Gas Reliability Infrastructure Program GWh Gigawatt-hours HLPSA Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 Houston Electric CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC and its subsidiaries HVAC Heating, ventilation and air conditioning IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ICPA Inter-Company Power Agreement IDEM Indiana Department of Environmental Management Indiana Electric Operations of SIGECO s electric transmission and distribution services, and includes its power generating and wholesale power operations Indiana Gas Indiana Gas Company, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. Indiana North Gas operations of Indiana Gas Indiana South Gas operations of SIGECO Indiana Utilities Indiana Electric, Indiana North and Indiana South, collectively IRA Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 IRP Integrated Resource Plan IRS Internal Revenue Service IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission kV Kilovolt LAMS Asset Purchase Agreement Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 19, 2024, by and among CERC Corp. and the LAMS Buyers LAMS Buyers Delta Utilities No. LA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Delta Utilities S. LA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, Delta Utilities MS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Delta Shared Services Co., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company LDC Local Distribution Company LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LNG Liquefied natural gas Load Shed Curtailing the amount of electricity a TDU can transmit and distribute to its customers LPSC Louisiana Public Service Commission LTIPs Long-term incentive plans MCRA MISO Cost and Revenue Adjustment iv GLOSSARY M DOT Mortgage and Deed of Trust, dated November 1, 1944, between Houston Lighting and Power Company and Chase Bank of Texas, National Association (formerly, South Texas Commercial National Bank of Houston), as Trustee, as amended and supplemented Merger The merger of Merger Sub with and into Vectren on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, with Vectren continuing as the surviving corporation and as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy, Inc., which closed on the Merger Date Merger Agreement Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 21, 2018, among CenterPoint Energy, Vectren and Merger Sub Merger Date February 1, 2019 Merger Sub Pacer Merger Sub, Inc., an Indiana corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy MES CenterPoint Energy Mobile Energy Solutions, Inc. (now known as Mobile Energy Solutions, Inc.), previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. MGP Manufactured gas plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator MMBtu One million British thermal units MMcf Million cubic feet Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. MPUC Minnesota Public Utilities Commission MPSC Mississippi Public Service Corporation Mva Megavolt amperes MW Megawatts Natural Gas Natural gas distribution businesses NECA National Electrical Contractors Association NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NGA Natural Gas Act of 1938 NGLs Natural gas liquids NGPA Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 NGPSA Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 NOLs Net operating losses NRG NRG Energy, Inc. NYSE New York Stock Exchange OPEIU Office Professional Employees International Union Oriden Oriden LLC Origis Origis Energy USA Inc. OUCC Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor OVEC Ohio Valley Electric Corporation PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration PIPES Act Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2020 PPA Power purchase agreement PRPs Potentially responsible parties PTCs Production Tax Credits PUCO Public Utilities Commission of Ohio PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas Railroad Commission Railroad Commission of Texas RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 Registrants CenterPoint Energy, Houston Electric and CERC, collectively REP Retail electric provider Restoration Bond Company CenterPoint Energy Restoration Bond Company, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric v GLOSSARY Restructuring CERC Corp. s common control acquisition of Indiana Gas and VEDO from VUH on June 30, 2022 ROE Return on equity ROU Right of use RRA Rate Regulation Adjustment RSP Rate Stabilization Plan Scope 1 emissions Direct source of emissions from a company s operations Scope 2 emissions Indirect source of emissions from a company s energy usage Scope 3 emissions Indirect source of emissions from a company s end-users SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securitization Bonds Transition and system restoration bonds issued by the Bond Companies and SIGECO Securitization Bonds issued by the SIGECO Securitization Subsidiary Series A Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s previously outstanding Series A Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share Series B Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s previously outstanding 7.00% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share Series C Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s previously outstanding Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share SIGECO Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren SIGECO Securitization Bonds SIGECO Securitization Subsidiary s Series 2023-A Senior Secured Securitization Bonds SIGECO Securitization Subsidiary SIGECO Securitization I, LLC, a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of SIGECO SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate S P S P Global Ratings, a division of S P Global Inc. SRC Sales Reconciliation Component TBD To be determined TCJA Tax reform legislation informally called the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TCOS Transmission Cost of Service TCRF Transmission Cost Recovery Factor TDSIC Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge TDU Transmission and distribution utility TEEEF Assets leased or costs incurred as temporary emergency electric energy facilities under Section 39.918 of the Public Utility Regulatory Act, also referred to as mobile generation Texas RE Texas Reliability Entity Topic 326 Accounting Standards Update 2016-13 - Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments TSA Transportation Security Administration USW United Steelworkers Union UWUA Utility Workers Union of America Utility Holding Utility Holding, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy Vectren Vectren, LLC, which converted its corporate structure from Vectren Corporation to a limited liability company on June 30, 2022, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy as of the Merger Date, and, after the Restructuring, is held indirectly by CenterPoint Energy through Vectren Affiliated Utilities, Inc. Vectren Energy Services Vectren Energy Services Corporation, an Indiana corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy VEDO Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio, LLC, which converted its corporate structure from Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio, Inc. to a limited liability company on June 13, 2022, formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren, acquired by CERC on June 30, 2022 VIE Variable interest entity Vistra Energy Corp. Texas-based energy company focused on the competitive energy and power generation markets. VRP Voluntary Remediation Program vi GLOSSARY VUH Vectren Utility Holdings, LLC, which converted its corporate structure from Vectren Utility Holdings, Inc. to a limited liability company on June 30, 2022, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren WBD Common Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc. Series A common stock Winter Storm Elliott From December 21 to 26, 2022, a historic extratropical cyclone created winter storm conditions, including blizzards, high winds, snowfall and record cold temperatures across the majority of the United States and parts of Canada. ZENS 2.0% Zero-Premium Exchangeable Subordinated Notes due 2029 ZENS-Related Securities As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, consisted of AT T Common, Charter Common and WBD Common 2022 Form 10-K Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 2022 Annuity Lift-Out The irrevocable group annuity contract purchased in December 2022 from an insurance company to transfer $138 million of CenterPoint Energy s pension plan s outstanding benefit obligation vii CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION From time to time the Registrants make statements concerning their expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance and underlying assumptions and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. You can generally identify forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, may, objective, plan, potential, predict, projection, should, target, will or other similar words. The Registrants have based their forward-looking statements on management s beliefs and assumptions based on information reasonably available to management at the time the statements are made. The Registrants caution you that assumptions, beliefs, expectations, intentions and projections about future events may and often do vary materially from actual results. Therefore, the Registrants cannot assure you that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed or implied by the Registrants forward-looking statements. In this Form 10-K, unless context requires otherwise, the terms our, we and us are used as abbreviated references to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, including Houston Electric, CERC and SIGECO. Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the Registrants forward-looking statements are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Factors Affecting Future Earnings and Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Matters Other Factors That Could Affect Cash Requirements in Item 7 of Part II of this report, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and the Registrants undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS An investment in CenterPoint Energy s securities involves a significant degree of risk. Below is a summary of certain risk factors to consider in evaluating CenterPoint Energy as well as its Common Stock. However, this list is not exhaustive. Before investing in CenterPoint Energy, carefully consider the risk factors discussed or referenced below and in