Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 39 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 39 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 77 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 177 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 177 Item 9B. Other Information 180 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 180 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 180 Item 11. Executive Compensation 180 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 180 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 180 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 180 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 181 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 182 i GLOSSARY ACE Affordable Clean Energy AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AGC Alcoa Generating Corporation, a subsidiary of Alcoa, Inc. AMAs Asset Management Agreements AMI Advanced Metering Infrastructure AMS Advanced Metering System APSC Arkansas Public Service Commission ARO Asset retirement obligation ARP Alternative revenue program ASC Accounting Standards Codification Asset Purchase Agreement Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2021, by and between CERC Corp. and Southern Col Midco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and an affiliate of Summit Utilities, Inc. ASU Accounting Standards Update AT T AT T Inc. AT T Common AT T common stock Bailey to Jones Creek Project A transmission project in the greater Freeport, Texas area, which includes enhancements to two existing substations and the construction of a new 345 kV double-circuit line located in the counties of Brazoria, Matagorda and Wharton Bcf Billion cubic feet Bond Companies Bond Company IV and Restoration Bond Company, each a wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote entity formed solely for the purpose of purchasing and owning transition or system restoration property through the issuance of Securitization Bonds Bond Company IV CenterPoint Energy Transition Bond Company IV, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric BTA Build Transfer Agreement Capital Dynamics Capital Dynamics, Inc., a Delaware corporation CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CCR Coal Combustion Residuals CECA Clean Energy Cost Adjustment CEIP CenterPoint Energy Intrastate Pipelines, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. CenterPoint Energy CenterPoint Energy, Inc., and its subsidiaries CERC Corp. CenterPoint Energy Resources Corp. CERC CERC Corp., together with its subsidiaries CERCLA Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended CES CenterPoint Energy Services, Inc. (now known as Symmetry Energy Solutions, LLC), previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. until its divestiture on June 1, 2020 Charter Common Charter Communications, Inc. common stock CIP Conservation Improvement Program CNG Compressed natural gas CNP Midstream CenterPoint Energy Midstream, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy Code The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is each Registrant s Chief Operating Executive Common Stock CenterPoint Energy, Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share Compensation Committee Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of CenterPoint Energy COVID-19 Novel coronavirus disease 2019, and any mutations or variants thereof, and related global outbreak that was subsequently declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization COVID-19 ERP COVID-19 Electricity Relief Program CPP Clean Power Plan CSIA Compliance and System Improvement Adjustment DCRF Distribution Cost Recovery Factor ii GLOSSARY DOT U.S. Department of Transportation DRR Distribution Replacement Rider DSMA Demand Side Management Adjustment Dth Dekatherms EBITDA Earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization ECA Environmental Cost Adjustment EDF Renewables EDF Renewables Development, Inc. EDIT Excess deferred income taxes EECR Energy Efficiency Cost Recovery EECRF Energy Efficiency Cost Recovery Factor EEFC Energy Efficiency Funding Component EEFR Energy Efficiency Funding Rider ELG Effluent Limitation Guidelines Elk GP Merger Sub Elk GP Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Energy Transfer Elk Merger Sub Elk Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Energy Transfer Enable Enable Midstream Partners, LP Enable Common Units Enable common units, representing limited partnership interests in Enable Enable GP Enable GP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the general partner of Enable Enable Merger The merger of Elk Merger Sub with and into Enable and the merger of Elk GP Merger Sub with and into Enable GP, in each case on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Enable Merger Agreement, with Enable and Enable GP surviving as wholly-owned subsidiaries of Energy Transfer, which closed on December 2, 2021 Enable Merger Agreement Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Energy Transfer, Elk Merger Sub, Elk GP Merger Sub, Enable, Enable GP and, solely for the purposes of Section 2.1(a)(i) therein, Energy Transfer GP, and solely for the purposes of Section 1.1(b)(i) therein, CenterPoint Energy Enable Series A Preferred Units Enable s 10% Series A Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units, representing limited partner interests in Enable Energy Services Offered competitive variable and fixed-priced physical natural gas supplies primarily to commercial and industrial customers and electric and natural gas utilities through CES and CEIP Energy Services Disposal Group Substantially all of the businesses within CenterPoint Energy s and CERC s Energy Services reporting unit that were sold under the Equity Purchase Agreement Energy Systems Group Energy Systems Group, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren Energy Transfer Energy Transfer LP, a Delaware limited partnership Energy Transfer Common Units Energy Transfer common units, representing limited partner interests in Energy Transfer Energy Transfer GP LE GP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and sole general partner of Energy Transfer Energy Transfer Series G Preferred Units Energy Transfer Series G Fixed-Rate Reset Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units, representing limited partner interests in Energy Transfer EPA Environmental Protection Agency Equity Purchase Agreement Equity Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 24, 2020, by and between CERC Corp. and Symmetry Energy Solutions Acquisition (f/k/a Athena Energy Services Buyer, LLC) ERCOT Electric Reliability Council of Texas ERCOT ISO ERCOT Independent System Operator ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ERO Electric Reliability Organization ESPC Energy Savings Performance Contracting FAC Fuel Adjustment Clause February 2021 Winter Storm Event The extreme and unprecedented winter weather event in February 2021 resulting in electricity generation supply shortages, including in Texas, and natural gas supply shortages and increased wholesale prices of natural gas in the United States, primarily due to prolonged freezing temperatures. FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission iii GLOSSARY First Amendment First Amendment to the Change in Control Plan, effective March 1, 2021 Fitch Fitch Ratings, Inc. Form 10-K Annual Report on Form 10-K Forward Sale Agreement Contingent forward sale agreement for 50 million Energy Transfer Common Units, dated September 21, 2021, by and between CNP Midstream and an investment banking financial institution FPA Federal Power Act FRP Formula Rate Plan GHG Greenhouse gases GRIP Gas Reliability Infrastructure Program GWh Gigawatt-hours HLPSA Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 Houston Electric CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric, LLC and its subsidiaries HVAC Heating, ventilation and air conditioning IBEW International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ICPA Inter-Company Power Agreement IDEM Indiana Department of Environmental Management Indiana Electric Operations of SIGECO s electric transmission and distribution services, and includes its power generating and wholesale power operations Indiana Gas Indiana Gas Company, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren Indiana North Gas operations of Indiana Gas Indiana South Gas operations of SIGECO Indiana Utilities Indiana Electric, Indiana North and Indiana South, collectively Infrastructure Services Provided underground pipeline construction and repair services through VISCO and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Miller Pipeline, LLC and Minnesota Limited, LLC Infrastructure Services Disposal Group Businesses within the Infrastructure Services reporting unit that were sold under the Securities Purchase Agreement Internal Spin CERC s contribution of its equity investment in Enable to CNP Midstream (detailed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements) IRP Integrated Resource Plan IRS Internal Revenue Service IURC Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission kV Kilovolt LDC Local Distribution Company LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LNG Liquefied natural gas Load Shed Curtailing the amount of electricity a TDU can transmit and distribute to its customers LPSC Louisiana Public Service Commission LTIPs Long-term incentive plans MCRA MISO Cost and Revenue Adjustment Merger The merger of Merger Sub with and into Vectren on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, with Vectren continuing as the surviving corporation and as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy, Inc., which closed on the Merger Date Merger Agreement Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 21, 2018, among CenterPoint Energy, Vectren and Merger Sub Merger Date February 1, 2019 Merger Sub Pacer Merger Sub, Inc., an Indiana corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy MES CenterPoint Energy Mobile Energy Solutions, Inc. (now known as Mobile Energy Solutions, Inc.), previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of CERC Corp. MGP Manufactured gas plant MISO Midcontinent Independent System Operator iv GLOSSARY MLP Master Limited Partnership MMcf Million cubic feet Moody s Moody s Investors Service, Inc. MPSC Mississippi Public Service Commission MPUC Minnesota Public Utilities Commission Mva Megavolt amperes MW Megawatts Natural Gas Natural gas distribution businesses NECA National Electrical Contractors Association NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NGA Natural Gas Act of 1938 NGLs Natural gas liquids NGPA Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 NGPSA Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 NOLs Net operating losses NRG NRG Energy, Inc. NYSE New York Stock Exchange OCC Oklahoma Corporation Commission OGE OGE Energy Corp. OPEIU Office Professional Employees International Union OVEC Ohio Valley Electric Corporation PBRC Performance Based Rate Change PHMSA Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration Pipes Act Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2020 Posey Solar Posey Solar, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company PowerTeam Services PowerTeam Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, now known as Artera Services, LLC PPA Power purchase agreement PRPs Potentially responsible parties PUCO Public Utilities Commission of Ohio PUCT Public Utility Commission of Texas Railroad Commission Railroad Commission of Texas RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 RCRA Mechanism Reliability Cost and Revenue Adjustment mechanism READY CenterPoint Energy s serious injury and fatality prevention model. READY stands for Recognize, Evaluate, Anticipate, Define, Yes Registrants CenterPoint Energy, Houston Electric and CERC, collectively Reliant Energy Reliant Energy, Incorporated REP Retail electric provider Restoration Bond Company CenterPoint Energy Restoration Bond Company, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Houston Electric ROE Return on equity ROU Right of use RRA Rate Regulation Adjustment RSP Rate Stabilization Plan Scope 1 emissions Direct source of emissions from a company s operations Scope 2 emissions Indirect source of emissions from a company s energy usage Scope 3 emissions Indirect source of emissions from a company s end-users SEC Securities and Exchange Commission v GLOSSARY Securities Purchase Agreement Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 3, 2020, by and among VUSI, PowerTeam Services and, solely for purposes of Section 10.17 of the Securities Purchase Agreement, Vectren Securitization Bonds Transition and system restoration bonds Series A Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s Series A Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share Series B Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s 7.00% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share Series C Preferred Stock CenterPoint Energy s Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share SIGECO Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate S P S P Global Ratings, a division of S P Global Inc. SRC Sales Reconciliation Component Symmetry Energy Solutions Acquisition Symmetry Energy Solutions Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (f/k/a Athena Energy Services Buyer, LLC) and subsidiary of Energy Capital Partners, LLC TBD To be determined TCJA Tax reform legislation informally called the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TCOS Transmission Cost of Service TCRF Transmission Cost Recovery Factor TDSIC Transmission, Distribution and Storage System Improvement Charge TDU Transmission and distribution utility Tenaska Tenaska Wind Holdings, LLC Texas RE Texas Reliability Entity TOB Tariffed On Bill TSA Transportation Security Administration UESC Utility Energy Services Contract USW United Steelworkers Union Utility Holding Utility Holding, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy VCC Vectren Capital Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren Vectren Vectren Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CenterPoint Energy as of the Merger Date VEDO Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren VIE Variable interest entity VISCO Vectren Infrastructure Services Corporation, formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren Vistra Energy Corp. Texas-based energy company focused on the competitive energy and power generation markets, whose major subsidiaries include Luminant and TXU Energy VRP Voluntary Remediation Program VUHI Vectren Utility Holdings, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren VUSI Vectren Utility Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vectren ZENS 2.0% Zero-Premium Exchangeable Subordinated Notes due 2029 ZENS-Related Securities As of both December 31, 2021 and 2020, consisted of AT T Common and Charter Common 2020 Form 10-K Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 vi CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION From time to time the Registrants make statements concerning their expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performance and underlying assumptions and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. You can generally identify forward-looking statements by the words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, may, objective, plan, potential, predict, projection, should, target, will or other similar words. The Registrants have based their forward-looking statements on management s beliefs and assumptions based on information reasonably available to management at the time the statements are made. The Registrants caution you that assumptions, beliefs, expectations, intentions and projections about future events may and often do vary materially from actual results. Therefore, the Registrants cannot assure you that actual results will not differ materially from those expressed or implied by the Registrants forward-looking statements. In this Form 10-K, unless context requires otherwise, the terms our, we and us are used as abbreviated references to CenterPoint Energy, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, including Houston Electric, CERC and Vectren. Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the Registrants forward-looking statements are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Factors Affecting Future Earnings and Liquidity and Capital Resources Other Matters Other Factors That Could Affect Cash Requirements in Item 7 of this report, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and the Registrants undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS An investment in CenterPoint Energy s securities involves a significant degree of risk. Below is a summary of certain risk factors to consider in evaluating CenterPoint Energy as well as its Common Stock and preferred stock. However, this list is not exhaustive. Before investing in CenterPoint Energy, carefully consider the risk factors discussed or referenced below and in