Item 1. Business 4 Overview 4 Operations and Business Segments 6 Competition 7 Supervision and Regulation 7 Employees 14 Additional Information 15 Forward-Looking Statements 15 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II 34 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 37 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) 40 Executive Summary and Business Outlook 40 Consolidated Results of Operations 43 Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis 48 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 50 Business Segment Financial Performance 50 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 59 Accounting Changes and Developments 63 Capital Management 64 Risk Management 69 Credit Risk Profile 74 Liquidity Risk Profile 87 Market Risk Profile 91 Supplemental Tables 95 Glossary and Acronyms 102 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 109 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 109 Consolidated Statements of Income 115 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 116 Consolidated Balance Sheets 117 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity 118 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 119 1 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 120 Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 120 Note 2 Investment Securities 134 Note 3 Loans 139 Note 4 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 148 Note 5 Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations 151 Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets 155 Note 7 Premises, Equipment and Leases 158 Note 8 Deposits and Borrowings 160 Note 9 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 162 Note 10 Stockholders Equity 170 Note 11 Regulatory and Capital Adequacy 174 Note 12 Earnings Per Common Share 176 Note 13 Stock-Based Compensation Plans 177 Note 14 Employee Benefit Plans 179 Note 15 Income Taxes 181 Note 16 Fair Value Measurement 185 Note 17 Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers 194 Note 18 Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others 198 Note 19 Capital One Financial Corporation (Parent Company Only) 202 Note 20 Related Party Transactions 204 Note 21 Business Developments 205 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 206 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 206 Item 9B. Other Information 206 PART III 207 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 207 Item 11. Executive Compensation 207 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 207 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 207 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 207 PART IV 208 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 208 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 208 EXHIBIT INDEX 209 SIGNATURES 213 2 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) INDEX OF MD A AND SUPPLEMENTAL TABLES MD A Tables: Page 1 Average Balances, Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin 44 2 Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest Income 45 3 Non-Interest Income 46 4 Non-Interest Expense 47 5 Investment Securities 48 6 Loans Held for Investment 49 7 Funding Sources Composition 49 8 Business Segment Results 51 9 Credit Card Business Results 52 9.1 Domestic Card Business Results 54 10 Consumer Banking Business Results 55 11 Commercial Banking Business Results 56 12 Other Category Results 58 13 Capital Ratios under Basel III 66 14 Regulatory Risk-Based Capital Components and Regulatory Capital Metrics 67 15 Preferred Stock Dividends Paid Per Share 67 16 Portfolio Composition of Loans Held for Investment 75 17 Loan Maturity Schedule 76 18 Credit Card Portfolio by Geographic Region 76 19 Consumer Banking Portfolio by Geographic Region 77 20 Commercial Banking Portfolio by Geographic Region 77 21 Commercial Loans by Industry 78 22 Credit Score Distribution 78 23 30+ Day Delinquencies 79 24 Aging and Geography of 30+ Day Delinquent Loans 80 25 90+ Day Delinquent Loans Accruing Interest 81 26 Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets 81 27 Net Charge-Offs (Recoveries) 83 28 Troubled Debt Restructurings 84 29 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments Activity 86 30 Allowance Coverage Ratios 87 31 Liquidity Reserves 87 32 Deposits Composition and Average Deposits Interest Rates 89 33 Maturities of Large-Denomination Domestic Time Deposits $100,000 or More 89 34 Long-Term Funding 90 35 Senior Unsecured Long-Term Debt Credit Ratings 90 36 Contractual Obligations 90 37 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis 92 Supplemental Tables : A Loans Held for Investment Portfolio Composition 95 B Performing Delinquencies 96 C Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets 97 D Net Charge-Offs 98 E Summary of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 99 F Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures 100 G Selected Quarterly Financial Information 101 3 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business OVERVIEW General Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation established in 1994 and headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a diversified financial services holding company with banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company or Capital One ) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients through digital channels, branches, Caf s and other distribution channels. As of December 31, 2019 , our principal subsidiaries included: Capital One Bank (USA), National Association ( COBNA ), which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products; and Capital One, National Association ( CONA ), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. The Company is hereafter collectively referred to as we, us or our. COBNA and CONA are collectively referred to as the Banks. References to this Report or our 2019 Form 10-K or 2019 Annual Report are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 . All references to 2019 , 2018 , 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2019 , December 31, 2018 , December 31, 2017 , December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the MD A Glossary and Acronyms and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. As one of the nation s ten largest banks based on deposits as of December 31, 2019 , we service banking customer accounts through digital channels, as well as through branch locations, ATMs and Caf s. We also operate as one of the largest online direct banks in the United States ( U.S. ) by deposits. In addition to bank lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and other consumer lending products in markets across the U.S. We were the third largest issuer of Visa ( Visa ) and MasterCard ( MasterCard ) credit cards in the U.S. based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as of December 31, 2019 . We also offer products outside of the U.S. principally through Capital One (Europe) plc ( COEP ), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. Both COEP and our branch of COBNA in Canada have the authority to provide credit card loans. Business Developments We regularly explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial services and products as well as financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We also explore opportunities to acquire technology companies and related assets to improve our information technology infrastructure and to deliver on our digital strategy. We may issue equity or debt to fund our acquisitions. In addition, we regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of business. On September 24, 2019, we launched a new credit card issuance program with Walmart Inc. ( Walmart ) and are now the exclusive issuer of Walmart s cobrand and private label credit card program in the U.S. On October 11, 2019, we completed the acquisition of the existing portfolio of Walmart s cobrand and private label credit card receivables ( Walmart acquisition ). As of the acquisition date, we added approximately $8.1 billion to our domestic credit card loans held for investment portfolio. In the second quarter of 2019, we made the decision to exit several small partnership portfolios in our Credit Card business. We sold approximately $900 million of receivables and transferred approximately $100 million to loans held for sale as of June 30, 2019, which resulted in a gain on sale of $49 million recognized in other non-interest income and an allowance release of $68 million. 4 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents Cybersecurity Incident On July 29, 2019, we announced there was unauthorized access by an outside individual who obtained certain types of personal information relating to people who had applied for our credit card products and to our credit card customers (the Cybersecurity Incident ). The Cybersecurity Incident occurred on March 22 and 23, 2019. We believe the individual was able to exploit a specific configuration vulnerability in our infrastructure. We immediately fixed the configuration vulnerability that this individual exploited and verified there are no other instances in our environment. The person responsible was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on July 29, 2019 and federal prosecution of the responsible person has commenced. The U.S. Attorney s Office has stated they believe the data has been recovered and that there is no evidence the data was used for fraud or shared by this individual. This event affected approximately 100 million individuals in the United States and approximately 6 million in Canada. We believe no credit card account numbers or log-in credentials were compromised. The largest category of information accessed was information on consumers and small businesses as of the time they applied for one of our credit card products from 2005 through early 2019. This information included personal information that we routinely collect at the time we receive credit card applications, including names, addresses, zip codes/postal codes, phone numbers, email addresses, dates of birth, and self-reported income. In addition to credit card application data, the individual also obtained portions of credit card customer data, including customer status data (e.g., credit scores, credit limits, balances, payment history, contact information) and fragments of transaction data from a total of 23 days during 2016, 2017 and 2018. Approximately 120,000 Social Security numbers of our credit card customers and approximately 80,000 linked bank account numbers of our secured credit card customers were compromised in this incident. For our Canadian credit card customers, approximately 1 million Social Insurance Numbers were compromised in this incident. We provided required notification to affected individuals and made free credit monitoring and identity protection available. We retained a leading independent cybersecurity firm that confirmed we correctly identified and fixed the specific configuration vulnerability exploited in the Cybersecurity Incident. During the year, we incurred $72 million of incremental expenses related to the remediation of and response to the Cybersecurity Incident, largely driven by customer notifications, credit monitoring, technology costs, and professional support, offset by $34 million of insurance recoveries pursuant to our insurance coverage described below. These amounts were treated as adjusting items as it relates to our financial results ( Cyber Adjusting Items ). We expect to be at the low end of the $100 million to $150 million range previously disclosed for the total amount of Cyber Adjusting Items and expect that some of these costs will extend beyond 2019. We carry insurance to cover certain costs associated with a cyber risk event. This insurance has a total coverage limit of $400 million and is subject to a $10 million deductible, which was met in the third quarter of 2019, as well as standard exclusions. We continue to expect that a significant portion of the Cyber Adjusting Items will be covered by insurance. Insurance reimbursements will also be treated as adjusting items, and the timing of recognizing insurance reimbursements may differ from the timing of recognizing the associated expenses. We continue to invest significantly in cybersecurity and expect to make additional investments as we continue to assess our cybersecurity program. These estimated investments are in addition to the estimated Cyber Adjusting Items and we expect to absorb them within our existing operating efficiency ratio guidance. Although the ultimate magnitude and timing of expenses or other impacts to our business or reputation related to the Cybersecurity Incident are uncertain, they may be significant, and some of the costs may not be covered by insurance. However, we do not believe that this incident will negatively impact our strategy or our long-term financial health. For more information, see Note 18 Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others . Our reported results excluding adjusting items, including the Cyber Adjusting Items, and our existing operating efficiency ratio guidance represent non-GAAP measures which we believe help users of our financial information understand the impact of these adjusting items on our reported results as well as provide an alternate measurement of our operating performance. 5 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents Additional Information Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol COF and is included in the Standard Poor s ( S P ) 100 Index. We maintain a website at www.capitalone.com. Documents available under Corporate Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website include: our Code of Conduct; our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and charters for the Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents also are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. We intend to disclose future amendments to certain provisions of our Code of Conduct, and waivers of our Code of Conduct granted to executive officers and directors, on the website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. In addition, we make available free of charge through our website all of our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC at www.sec.gov. OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS Our consolidated total net revenues are derived primarily from lending to consumer and commercial customers net of funding costs associated with our deposits, long-term debt and other borrowings. We also earn non-interest income which primarily consists of interchange income, net of reward expenses, service charges and other customer-related fees. Our expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating expenses, marketing expenses and income taxes. Our principal operations are organized for management reporting purposes into three major business segments, which are defined primarily based on the products and services provided or the types of customers served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group and residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments , are included in the Other category. Credit Card: Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, and international card businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom. Consumer Banking: Consists of our deposit gathering and lending activities for consumers and small businesses, and national auto lending. Commercial Banking: Consists of our lending, deposit gathering, capital markets and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial customers. Our commercial and industrial customers typically include companies with annual revenues between $20 million and $2 billion. Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase volume and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to seasonal variances in consumer spending and payment patterns which, for example, are highest around the winter holiday season. Net charge-off rates for our credit card loan portfolio also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns as well and generally tend to be the highest in the first quarter of the year. No individual quarter in 2019, 2018 or 2017 accounted for more than 30% of our total revenues in any of these fiscal years. For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business, see Part II Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) Executive Summary and Business Outlook , MD A Business Segment Financial Performance and Note 17 Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers of this Report. 6 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents COMPETITION Each of our business segments operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services. Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit cards, as well as with American Express , Discover Card , private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit, reward programs and other product features. Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national, state and direct banks for deposits, commercial and auto loans, as well as with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, commercial mortgage banking companies and other financial services providers that provide loans, deposits, and other similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. In addition, competition among direct banks is intense because online banking provides customers the ability to rapidly deposit and withdraw funds and open and close accounts in favor of products and services offered by competitors. Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our associates and on our reputation. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, see Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors . SUPERVISION AND REGULATION General Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company ( BHC ) and a financial holding company ( FHC ) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ( BHC Act ), and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including approval requirements for investments in or acquisitions of banking organizations, capital adequacy standards and limitations on nonbanking activities. As a BHC and FHC, we are subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ( Federal Reserve ). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, an FHC is permitted to engage in activities considered to be financial in nature (including, for example, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities), incidental to financial activities or, if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general, activities complementary to financial activities. To become and remain eligible for FHC status, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) requirements. Failure to meet such criteria could result, depending on which requirements were not met, in restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or being required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for BHCs. The Banks are national associations chartered under the laws of the United States and the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) up to applicable limits. The Banks are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ), the FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ). We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international 7 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See Regulation of Businesses by Authorities Outside the United States below for additional details. Regulation of Business Activities The business activities of the Company and the Banks are also subject to regulation and supervision under various laws and regulations. Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including, for example, the Truth in Lending Act ( TILA ), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the CRA, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and the Military Lending Act, as well as under various state laws. TILA, as amended, imposes a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees, requires that a consumer s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and imposes revised disclosures required for open-end credit. Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators may be authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate customers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws may also affect the ability of a bank, including the Banks, to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. Debit Interchange Fees The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank Act ) requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. Rules adopted by the Federal Reserve to implement these requirements limit interchange fees per debit card transaction to $0.21 plus five basis points of the transaction amount and provide for an additional $0.01 fraud prevention adjustment to the interchange fee for issuers that meet certain fraud prevention requirements. Privacy We are subject to multiple federal and state laws concerning data privacy, such as the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act. This area has seen increasing legislative and regulatory activity. For example, in 2018, the State of California passed the California Consumer Privacy Act ( CCPA ), which creates obligations on covered companies to, among other things, share certain information they have collected about individuals who are California residents with those individuals, subject to some exceptions. The California Attorney General has received public comment on the proposed regulations and is expected to issue final CCPA regulations in the first half of 2020. We have analyzed the CCPA and determined its initial applicability to our business. We will review the final CCPA regulations and determine their impact to our business while we continue to monitor data privacy legal developments in other jurisdictions. Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 ( Patriot Act ) require financial institutions, among other things, to implement a risk-based program reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and to combat the financing of terrorism, including through suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, compliance, record-keeping and customer due diligence. The Patriot Act also contains financial transparency laws and provides enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms to the U.S. government, including due diligence and record-keeping requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to produce certain records upon request of a regulator or law enforcement agency; and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement agencies in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering and other crimes. Funding Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ), as discussed in MD A Liquidity Risk Profile , only well capitalized and adequately capitalized institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately capitalized institutions, however, must obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such institutions may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity obtained from the institution s normal market area or, for deposits obtained from outside the institution s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity. The 8 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents FDIC is authorized to terminate a bank s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance would likely have a material adverse effect on a bank s liquidity and earnings. Nonbank Activities Certain of our nonbank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities. United Income, Inc. is an investment adviser registered with the SEC and regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Capital One Securities, Inc. and KippsDeSanto Company are registered broker-dealers regulated by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject, among other things, to net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of a broker-dealer to transfer capital to its parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers are also subject to regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure