Item 1. Business 4 Overview 4 Operations and Business Segments 6 Competition 7 Supervision and Regulation 7 Human Capital Resources 17 Additional Information 19 Forward-Looking Statements 20 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 2. Properties 39 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 39 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 40 PART II 41 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 44 Item 7 . Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) 47 Executive Summary and Business Outlook 48 Consolidated Results of Operations 50 Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis 55 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 57 Business Segment Financial Performance 57 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 67 Accounting Changes and Developments 71 Capital Management 72 Risk Management 79 Credit Risk Profile 85 Liquidity Risk Profile 98 Market Risk Profile 102 Supplemental Table 107 Glossary and Acronyms 108 Item 7A . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 115 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 116 Consolidated Statements of Income 121 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 122 Consolidated Balance Sheets 123 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity 124 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 125 1 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 127 Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 127 Note 2 Investment Securities 143 Note 3 Loans 146 Note 4 Allowance for Credit Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 158 Note 5 Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations 161 Note 6 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 165 Note 7 Premises, Equipment and Leases 168 Note 8 Deposits and Borrowings 170 Note 9 Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 172 Note 10 Stockholders Equity 181 Note 11 Regulatory and Capital Adequacy 185 Note 12 Earnings Per Common Share 188 Note 13 Stock-Based Compensation Plans 189 Note 14 Employee Benefit Plans 191 Note 15 Income Taxes 193 Note 16 Fair Value Measurement 197 Note 17 Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers 206 Note 18 Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others 211 Note 19 Capital One Financial Corporation (Parent Company Only) 214 Note 20 Related Party Transactions 216 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 217 Item 9A . Controls and Procedures 217 Item 9B. Other Information 217 Item 9 C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 217 PART III 218 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 218 Item 11. Executive Compensation 218 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 218 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 218 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 218 PART IV 219 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 219 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 219 E XH IBIT I NDEX 220 SIGNATURES 223 2 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) INDEX OF MD A AND SUPPLEMENTAL TABLE MD A Tables: Page 1 Average Balances, Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin 50 2 Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest Income 52 3 Non-Interest Income 53 4 Non-Interest Expense 54 5 Loans Held for Investment 56 6 Funding Sources Composition 56 7 Business Segment Results 58 8 Credit Card Business Results 59 8 Domestic Card Business Results 61 9 Consumer Banking Business Results 63 10 Commercial Banking Business Results 64 11 Other Category Results 66 12 Capital Ratios Under Basel III 75 13 Regulatory Risk-Based Capital Components and Regulatory Capital Metrics 76 14 Preferred Stock Dividends Paid Per Share 78 15 Portfolio Composition of Loans Held for Investment 86 16 Loan Maturity Schedule 86 17 Credit Card Portfolio by Geographic Region 87 18 Consumer Banking Portfolio by Geographic Region 88 19 Commercial Real Estate Portfolio by Region 88 20 Commercial Loans by Industry 89 21 Credit Score Distribution 90 22 30+ Day Delinquencies 90 23 Aging and Geography of 30+ Day Delinquent Loans 91 24 90+ Day Delinquent Loans Accruing Interest 92 25 Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets 93 26 Net Charge-Offs 94 27 Troubled Debt Restructurings 95 28 Allowance for Credit Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments Activity 96 29 Allowance Coverage Ratios for Specified Loan Category 98 30 Liquidity Reserves 98 31 Deposits Composition and Average Deposits Interest Rates 100 32 Amount of Time Deposits in Excess of $250,000 by Contractual Maturity 101 33 Long-Term Debt Funding Activities 101 34 Senior Unsecured Long-Term Debt Credit Ratings 102 35 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis 103 36 LIBOR Exposures on Derivatives and Commercial Loans 105 Supplemental Table s: A Net Charge-Offs 107 B Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures 107 3 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business OVERVIEW General Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation established in 1994 and headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a diversified financial services holding company with banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Company or Capital One ) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients through digital channels, branch locations, Caf s and other distribution channels. As of December 31, 2021, our principal subsidiaries included: Capital One Bank (USA), National Association ( COBNA ), which offers credit card products along with other lending products and consumer services; and Capital One, National Association ( CONA ), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. The Company is hereafter collectively referred to as we, us or our. COBNA and CONA are collectively referred to as the Banks. References to this Report or our 2021 Form 10-K or 2021 Annual Report are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. All references to 2021, 2020 and 2019, refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the MD A Glossary and Acronyms and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. We were the third largest issuer of Visa ( Visa ) and MasterCard ( MasterCard ) credit cards in the U.S. based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as of December 31, 2021. In addition to credit cards, we also offer debit cards, bank lending, treasury management and depository services, auto loans and other consumer lending products in markets across the U.S. As one of the nation s largest banks based on deposits as of December 31, 2021, we service banking customer accounts through digital channels, as well as through branch locations, Caf s, call centers and automated teller machines ( ATMs ). We also offer products and services outside of the U.S. principally through Capital One (Europe) plc ( COEP ), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. Both COEP and our Canadian branch of COBNA have the authority to provide credit card loans. Business Developments We regularly explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial products and services as well as financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We also explore opportunities to acquire technology companies and related assets to improve our information technology infrastructure and to deliver on our digital strategy. We may issue equity or debt to fund our acquisitions. In addition, we regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of business. 4 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a global public-health crisis, disrupting economies and introducing significant volatility into financial markets. We transformed how we work in order to protect the well-being of our associates and our customers, and were able to continue to serve our customers, successfully manage critical functions, and keep our lines of business operating. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, a significant majority of our associates across our workforce have transitioned to working remotely, relying on our technology infrastructure and systems that have been designed for resilience and security. The majority of our associates continue to work remotely. In the future, we plan to adopt a hybrid work methodology that allows for in-office collaboration while still enabling associates to work remotely. We continue to monitor local conditions to ensure the safety of our associates. For the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacted our financial results, refer to Part II Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ). The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic ultimately impacts our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on future developments that are still uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. For more information see Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic . Additional Information Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol COF and is included in the Standard Poor s ( S P ) 100 Index. We maintain a website at www.capitalone.com. Documents available under Governance Leadership in the Investor Relations section of our website include: our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and Code of Conduct; and charters for the Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors. These documents also are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. We intend to disclose future amendments to our Code of Conduct on the website following the date of the amendment. If applicable, we would publicly disclose any waivers of our Code of Conduct granted to executive officers and directors. In addition, we make available free of charge through our website all of our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC at www.sec.gov. 5 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS Our consolidated total net revenues are derived primarily from lending to consumer and commercial customers net of funding costs associated with our deposits, long-term debt and other borrowings. We also earn non-interest income which primarily consists of interchange income, net of reward expenses, service charges and other customer-related fees. Our expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating expenses, marketing expenses and income taxes. Our principal operations are organized for management reporting purposes into three major business segments, which are defined primarily based on the products and services provided or the types of customers served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into or managed as a part of our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio and asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group, are included in the Other category. Other category also includes unallocated corporate expenses that do not directly support the operations of the business segments or for which the business segments are not considered financially accountable in evaluating their performance, such as certain restructuring charges, as well as residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments. Credit Card: Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, and international card businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom. Consumer Banking: Consists of our deposit gathering and lending activities for consumers and small businesses, and national auto lending. Commercial Banking: Consists of our lending, deposit gathering, capital markets and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial customers. Our customers typically include companies with annual revenues between $20 million and $2 billion. Customer usage and payment patterns, estimates of future expected credit losses, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase volume and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to seasonal variances in consumer spending and payment patterns which, for example, have historically been the highest around the winter holiday season. Net charge-off rates for our credit card loan portfolio also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns as well and generally tend to be the highest in the first quarter of the year. For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business, see Part II Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) Executive Summary and Business Outlook, MD A Business Segment Financial Performance and Note 17 Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers of this Report. 6 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents COMPETITION Each of our business segments operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services. Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit cards, as well as with American Express , Discover Card , private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit, reward programs and other product features. Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national, state and direct banks for deposits, commercial and auto loans, as well as with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, commercial mortgage banking companies and other financial services providers that provide loans, deposits, and other similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services. We also consider new and emerging companies in digital and mobile payments and other financial technology providers among our competitors. We compete with many forms of payment mechanisms, systems and products, offered by both bank and non-bank providers. Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our associates and on our reputation as well as our ability to keep pace with innovation, in particular in the development of new technology platforms. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, see Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION General The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. As a banking organization, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. In addition to banking laws and regulations, we are subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. We and our subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to us and our subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on our business or organization. Both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors such as technological, political and market changes. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector. The descriptions below summarize certain significant federal and state laws, as well as international laws, to which we are subject. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. They do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in current laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statutes or regulatory provisions. Banking Regulation Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company ( BHC ) and a financial holding company ( FHC ) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ( BHC Act ), and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including approval requirements for investments in or acquisitions of banking organizations, capital adequacy standards and limitations 7 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents on non-banking activities. As a BHC and FHC, we are subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ( Federal Reserve ). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, a FHC is permitted to engage in activities considered to be financial in nature (including, for example, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities), incidental to financial activities or, if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general, activities complementary to financial activities. To become and remain eligible for FHC status, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ) requirements. Failure to meet such criteria could result, depending on which requirements were not met, in restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or being required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for BHCs. The Banks are national associations chartered under the National Bank Act, and the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) up to applicable limits. The Banks are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ), the FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ). Subject to obtaining all regulatory approvals, we plan to merge the Banks in the fourth quarter of 2022. There can be no assurance that the merger will take place in this time frame. After the completion of the merger, Capital One will conduct its core banking businesses through one subsidiary bank, Capital One, National Association. We also are registered as a financial institution holding company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See Regulation of Businesses by Authorities Outside the United States below for additional details. Regulation of Business Activities The business activities of the Company and the Banks are also subject to regulation and supervision under various laws and regulations. Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including, for example, the Truth in Lending Act ( TILA ), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the CRA, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 ( Dodd-Frank Act ), the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and the Military Lending Act, as well as under various state laws. TILA, as amended, imposes a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees, requires that a consumer s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and imposes revised disclosures required for open-end credit. Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators may be authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate customers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws may also affect the ability of a bank, including the Banks, to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers. Debit Interchange Fees The Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. Rules adopted by the Federal Reserve to implement these requirements limit interchange fees per debit card transaction to $0.21 plus five basis points of the transaction amount and provide for an additional $0.01 fraud prevention adjustment to the interchange fee for issuers that meet certain fraud prevention requirements. 8 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the United States and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, security, and other processing of personal information. These areas have seen a considerable increase in legislative and regulatory activity over the past several years. For example, in November 2021, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC (collectively, the Federal Banking Agencies ) issued a final rule that, among other things, requires a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after determining that a significant computer-security incident has occurred. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as privacy, data protection and data security laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country or state to state and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. For example, in the United States we are subject to the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act ( GLBA ), among other laws and regulations, at the federal level, and in Canada we are subject to the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act ( PIPEDA ). In addition, the European Union ( EU ) General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) applies EU data protection laws to companies that process data of EU residents, and we also are subject to the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation ( U.K. GDPR ). At the U.S. state level, we are subject to a number of laws and regulations, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act ( CCPA ), which became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA and its implementing regulations, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act ( CPRA ) (which will take effect in most material respects on January 1, 2023), create obligations on covered companies to, among other things, share certain information they have collected about individuals who are California residents with those individuals, subject to some exceptions. Many other states have also enacted or are considering enactment of state-level privacy, data protection and/or data security laws and regulations, with which we may be required to comply. We continue to monitor privacy, data protection and data security legal developments in the jurisdictions in which we do business. For further discussion of privacy, data protection and cybersecurity, and related risks for our business, see Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure , A cyber-attack or other security incident, including one that results in the theft, loss or misuse of information (including personal information), or the disabling of systems and access to information critical to business operations, may result in increased costs, reductions in revenue, reputational damage, legal exposure and business disruptions , and Our required compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to privacy, data protection and data security may increase our costs, reduce our revenue, increase our legal exposure and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities . Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 ( Patriot Act ) require financial institutions, among other things, to implement a risk-based program reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and to combat the financing of terrorism, including through suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, compliance, record-keeping and customer due diligence. The Patriot Act also contains financial transparency laws and provides enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms to the U.S. government, including due diligence and record-keeping requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to produce certain records upon request of a regulator or law enforcement agency; and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement agencies in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering and other crimes. The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 ( AML Act ), enacted on January 1, 2021 as part of the National Defense Authorization Act, does not directly impose new requirements on banks, but requires the U.S. Treasury Department to issue National Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Priorities, which it did in June 2021, and to conduct studies and issue regulations that may, over the next few years, significantly alter some of the due diligence, recordkeeping and reporting requirements that the Bank Secrecy Act and Patriot Act impose on banks. The AML Act also contains provisions that promote increased information-sharing and use of technology, and increases penalties for violations of the Bank Secrecy Act and includes whistleblower incentives, both of which could increase the prospect of regulatory enforcement. 9 Capital One Financial Corporation (COF) Table of Contents Funding Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ), as discussed in MD A Liquidity Risk Profile, only well capitalized and adequately capitalized institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately capitalized institutions, however, must obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such institutions may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity obtained from the institution s normal market area or, for deposits obtained from outside the institution s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity. In December 2020, the FDIC finalized amendments to the brokered deposit regulation that, among other things, generally clarify and narrow the scope of the deposit broker definition. The amendments became effective April 1, 2021, with compliance required by January 1, 2022. The FDIC is authorized to terminate a bank s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank s regulatory agency. Broker-Dealer and Investment Advisory Activities Certain of our non-bank subsidia