Item 1. BUSINESS Definitions Coherent Corp. ( Coherent, the Company, we, us, or our ), a global leader in materials, networking, and lasers, is a vertically integrated manufacturing company that develops, manufactures, and markets engineered materials, optoelectronic components and devices, and lasers for use in the industrial, communications, electronics, and instrumentation markets. Our headquarters are located at 375 Saxonburg Boulevard, Saxonburg, Pennsylvania 16056, USA. Our telephone number is +1-724-352-4455. Reference to Coherent, the Company, we, us, or our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, refers to Coherent Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. The following defined terms are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: artificial intelligence (AI); bismuth telluride (Bi 2 Te 3 ); cadmium telluride (CdTe); carbon dioxide (CO 2 ); chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of materials including diamond; continuous wave (CW); datacenter interconnect (DCI); dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM); diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI); edge-emitting lasers (EELs); environmental, social, and governance (ESG); extreme-ultraviolet (EUV) lithography; fifth-generation (5G) wireless; fourth-generation (4G) wireless; gallium arsenide (GaAs); gallium antimonide (GaSb), gallium nitride (GaN); Geostationary Operational Environment Satellite Program (GOES); gigabit per second (Gbps); high-definition multimedia interface (HDMI); high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT); indium phosphide (InP); infrared (IR); integrated circuit (IC); intellectual property (IP); kilowatt (kW); light detection and ranging (LiDAR); liquid crystal (LC); liquid crystal on silicon (LCoS); machine learning (ML); metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET); millimeters (mm); nanometers (nm); near-infrared (NIR); optical channel monitor (OCM); optoelectronic chip hybrid integration platform (OCHIP); original equipment manufacturer (OEM); optical time-domain reflectometer (OTDR); radio frequency (RF); reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexer (ROADM); research and development (R D); silicon carbide (SiC); terabit per second (Tbps); three-dimensional (3D); ultraviolet (UV); vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL); virtual reality (VR); wavelength selective switching (WSS); zinc selenide (ZnSe); and zinc sulfide (ZnS). General Description of Business We develop, manufacture, and market engineered materials, optoelectronic components and devices, and optical and laser systems and subsystems for use in the industrial, communications, electronics, and instrumentation markets. We use advanced engineered materials growth technologies and proprietary high-precision fabrication, microassembly, optical thin-film coating, and electronic integration to manufacture complex optoelectronic devices and modules. Our products are deployed in a variety of market verticals, including precision manufacturing, aerospace defense, semiconductor capital equipment, display capital equipment, telecommunication (telecom) networks, data communication (datacom) networks, consumer electronics, automotive, wireless, life sciences, and scientific research. We generate almost all of our revenues, earnings, and cash flows from developing, manufacturing, and marketing a broad portfolio of products and services for our end markets. We also generate revenues, earnings, and cash flows from externally funded R D contracts relating to the development and manufacture of new technologies, materials, and products. Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, laser end users, system integrators of high-power lasers, and manufacturers of equipment and devices for our end markets. Through R D investments and our strategic acquisitions, we have expanded our portfolio of materials and product platforms. We have a strong core competency in bulk and epitaxial crystal growth. The materials we grow and fabricate are differentiated by one or a combination of unique optical, electrical, magnetic, thermal, and mechanical properties. Our optics are shaped by precision surfacing techniques and functionalized with smooth or structured surfaces or patterned metallization. Proprietary processes developed at our global optical coating centers differentiate our products durability against high-energy lasers and extreme operating environments. Optical coatings also provide the desired spectral characteristics, ranging from the ultraviolet to the far-infrared. We leverage these capabilities to deliver miniature to large-scale precision optical assemblies, including those in combination with thermal-management components, integrated electronics, and software. We also offer a broad portfolio of compound semiconductor lasers that are used in a variety of applications in our end markets. These lasers enable optical signal transmission, reception, and amplification in terrestrial and submarine communications networks, high-bit-rate server connectivity between and within datacenters, optical communications network monitoring, materials processing, fast and accurate measurements in biomedical instruments, and precision sensing in consumer electronics. We are a major supplier of silicon carbide substrates for the power electronics and the wireless mobile markets. We continue to improve our operational capabilities, develop next-generation products, and invest in new technology platforms to drive growth in the short and the long term. With our strategic focus on fast-growing and sustainable markets, we pursue our mission of enabling the world to be safer, healthier, closer, and more efficient, and strive to attain our vision of a world transformed through innovations vital to a better life today and the sustainability of future generations. 6 Acquisition and Background of Coherent, Inc. The acquisition of Coherent, Inc., one of the world s leading providers of laser and optics-based product solutions, closed on July 1, 2022. Coherent, Inc., as used in this Form 10-K generally means the subsidiaries and businesses of Coherent, Inc., as of the time of its acquisition by Coherent Corp. (formerly named II-VI Incorporated). For the full fiscal year 2023, Coherent, Inc., was included in the combined company and renamed as the Lasers segment. The Lasers segment s lasers and optics products serve industrial customers in semiconductor and display capital equipment, precision manufacturing, and aerospace defense, as well as instrumentation customers in life sciences and scientific devices. Information Regarding Reporting Segments and Foreign Operations In connection with the acquisition of Coherent, Inc., effective July 1, 2022, the Company realigned its organizational structure into three reporting segments for the purpose of making operational decisions and assessing financial performance: (i) Networking, previously referred to as our Photonic Solutions segment; (ii) Materials, previously referred to as our Compound Semiconductors segment; and (iii) Lasers. Effective July 1, 2022, the Company reports financial information for these three segments. Financial data regarding our revenues, results of operations, reporting segments, and international sales for the three years ended June 30, 2024, are set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) and in Note 14. Segment and Geographic Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are incorporated herein by reference. We also discuss certain Risk Factors set forth in