Item 1. BUSINESS Definitions II-VI Incorporated ( II-VI, the Company, we, us, or our ) was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1971. Our headquarters are located at 375 Saxonburg Boulevard, Saxonburg, Pennsylvania 16056. Our telephone number is 724-352-4455. Reference to II-VI, the Company, we, us, or our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, refers to II-VI Incorporated and its wholly owned subsidiaries. The Company s name is pronounced Two Six Incorporated. The name II-VI refers to Groups II and VI of the periodic table of elements from which II-VI originally designed and produced infrared optics for high-power CO 2 lasers used in materials processing. The majority of our revenues are attributable to the sale of engineered materials and optoelectronic components, devices, and subsystems for the optical communications, industrial materials processing, aerospace and defense, and consumer electronics markets. Reference to fiscal or fiscal year means our fiscal year ended June 30 for the year referenced. The following terms are defined for reference: bismuth telluride ( Bi 2 Te 3 ); cadmium telluride ( CdTe ); carbon dioxide ( CO 2 ); carbon monoxide ( CO ); chemical vapor deposition ( CVD ) of materials including diamond; deep ultraviolet ( DUV ) lithography; dense wavelength division multiplexing ( DWDM ); extreme-ultraviolet ( EUV ) lithography; 5th-generation ( 5G ) wireless; 4th-generation ( 4G ) wireless; gallium arsenide ( GaAs ); gallium nitride ( GaN ); gigabit Ethernet ( GbE ); gigabit per second ( Gbps ); high-definition multimedia interface ( HDMI ); high-electron-mobility transistor ( HEMT ); indium phosphide ( InP ); infrared ( IR ); intellectual property ( IP ); light detection and ranging ( LiDAR ); liquid crystal ( LC ); liquid crystal on silicon ( LCOS ); nanometers ( nm ); near-infrared ( NIR ); optical channel monitor ( OCM ); organic light-emitting diode ( OLED ); original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ); optical time-domain reflectometer ( OTDR ); polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ); radio frequency ( RF ); reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexer ( ROADM ); research and development ( R D ); research, development, and engineering ( RD E ); silicon carbide ( SiC ); terabit per second ( Tbps ); three-dimensional ( 3D ); ultraviolet ( UV ); vertical cavity surface-emitting laser ( VCSEL ); wavelength division multiplexing ( WDM ); wavelength selective switching ( WSS ); zinc selenide ( ZnSe ); and zinc sulfide ( ZnS ). Acquisition of Finisar Corporation On September 24, 2019 (the Closing Date ), the Company completed its acquisition of Finisar Corporation ("Finisar"), a global technology leader for subsystems and components for fiber-optic communications. Additional information regarding the Company s acquisition of Finisar is set forth below and in Note 3. Acquisitions to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Due to timing of the acquisition, the results of Finisar for the three months ended September 30, 2019, have not been allocated to an Operating Segment, and are presented in Unallocated and Other within Note 14. Segment and Geographic Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Beginning on October 1, 2019, the results of Finisar have been allocated to the Photonic Solutions and Compound Semiconductors Segments. General Description of Business We develop, manufacture, and market engineered materials, optoelectronic components, and devices for use in optical communications, industrial materials processing, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, semiconductor capital equipment, life sciences, and automotive applications and markets. We use advanced engineered materials growth technologies and proprietary high-precision fabrication, microassembly, optical thin-film coating, and electronic integration to manufacture complex optoelectronic devices and modules. Our products are deployed in a variety of applications, including (i) optical, data, and wireless communications products; (ii) laser cutting, welding, and marking operations; (iii) 3D sensing consumer applications; (iv) aerospace and defense applications including intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; (v) semiconductor processing tools; and (vi) thermoelectric cooling and power-generation solutions. 6 Through RD E investments and its strategic acquisitions, II-VI has expanded its portfolio of materials and product platforms. We believe that the materials we grow and fabricate are differentiated by one or a combination of unique optical, electrical, thermal, and mechanical properties. II-VI s optics are shaped by precision surfacing techniques to meet the most stringent requirements for flat or curved geometries, functionalized with smooth or structured surfaces, or with patterned metallization. Proprietary processes developed at our global optical coating centers differentiate our products durability against high-energy lasers and extreme operating environments. Optical coatings also provide the desired spectral characteristics, ranging from the ultraviolet to the far-infrared. II-VI leverages these capabilities to deliver miniature- to large-scale precision optical assemblies, including those in combination with thermal management components, integrated electronics, and/or software. II-VI also offers a broad portfolio of compound semiconductor lasers that are used in a variety of applications in our end markets. These compound semiconductor lasers enable optical signal transmission, reception, and amplification in terrestrial and submarine communications networks; high-bit-rate server connectivity between and within datacenters; optical communications network monitoring; materials processing; and fast and accurate measurements in biomedical instruments and consumer electronics. II-VI continues to improve its operational capabilities, develop next-generation products, and invest in new technology platforms to drive our growth in the short term while keeping the long term in mind. With a strategic focus on fast-growing and sustainable markets, II-VI pursues its mission of enabling the world to be safer, healthier, closer, and more efficient, and strives to attain its vision of a world transformed through innovative materials vital to a better life today and the sustainability of future generations. Information Regarding Market Segments and Foreign Operations Financial data regarding our revenues, results of operations, industry segments, and international sales for the three years ended June 30, 2020, are set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) and in Note 14. Segment and Geographic Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. We also discuss certain Risk Factors set forth in