Item 1. BUSINESS Definitions II-VI Incorporated ( II-VI, the Company, we, us, or our ) was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1971. Our headquarters are located at 375 Saxonburg Boulevard, Saxonburg, Pennsylvania 16056, USA. Our telephone number is +1-724-352-4455. Reference to II-VI, the Company, we, us, or our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, refers to II-VI Incorporated and its wholly owned subsidiaries. The Company s name is pronounced Two Six Incorporated. The name II-VI refers to Groups II and VI of the periodic table of elements from which II-VI originally designed and produced infrared optics for high-power CO 2 lasers used in materials processing. The majority of our revenues are attributable to the sale of engineered materials and optoelectronic components, devices, and subsystems for the optical communications, industrial, aerospace and defense, and consumer electronics markets. Reference to fiscal, fiscal year, or FY means our fiscal year ended June 30 for the year referenced. As of June 30, 2022, the Company s operations were organized into two reporting segments: (i) Photonic Solutions and (ii) Compound Semiconductors. See below for a more detailed description of each of these segments. On July 1, 2022 the Company completed the previously announced acquisition of Coherent, Inc. ( Coherent ), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 25, 2021 (the Merger Agreement ), by and among the Company, Coherent and Watson Merger Sub Inc. (the Merger ). In connection with the Merger, effective July 1, 2022, the Company realigned its organizational structure into three reporting segments for the purpose of making operational decisions and assessing financial performance: (i) Materials, which previously was referred to as our Compound Semiconductors segment (ii) Networking, which previously was referred to as our Photonic Solutions segment, and (iii) Lasers. The Company will report financial information for these new reporting segments in fiscal 2023. This change in reporting is to occur beginning with periods commencing July 1, 2022. The following defined terms are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: augmented reality (AR); bismuth telluride (Bi 2 Te 3 ); cadmium telluride (CdTe); carbon dioxide (CO 2 ); Centers for Disease Control (CDC); chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of materials including diamond; datacenter interconnect (DCI); dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM); digital signal processors (DSPs); diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI); extreme-ultraviolet (EUV) lithography; fifth-generation (5G) wireless; fourth-generation (4G) wireless; gallium arsenide (GaAs); gallium nitride (GaN); Geostationary Operational Environment Satellite Program (GOES); gigabit Ethernet (GbE); gigabit per second (Gbps); high-definition multimedia interface (HDMI); high-electron-mobility transistor (HEMT); indium phosphide (InP); infrared (IR); integrated circuit (IC); intellectual property (IP); kilowatt (kW); light detection and ranging (LiDAR); liquid crystal (LC); liquid crystal on silicon (LCOS); metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET); millimeters (mm); nanometers (nm); near-infrared (NIR); optical channel monitor (OCM); optoelectronic chip hybrid integration platform (OCHIP); original equipment manufacturer (OEM); optical time-domain reflectometer (OTDR); polymerase chain reaction (PCR); radio frequency (RF); reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexer (ROADM); research and development (R D); research, development, and engineering (RD E); silicon carbide (SiC); terabit per second (Tbps); three-dimensional (3D); transimpedance amplifier (TIA); ultraviolet (UV); vertical-cavity surface-emitting laser (VCSEL); virtual reality (VR); wavelength division multiplexing (WDM); wavelength selective switching (WSS); zinc selenide (ZnSe); and zinc sulfide (ZnS). General Description of Business We develop, manufacture, and market engineered materials, optoelectronic components, and devices for use in optical communications, industrial, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, semiconductor capital equipment, life sciences, and automotive applications end markets. We use advanced engineered materials growth technologies and proprietary high-precision fabrication, microassembly, optical thin-film coating, and electronic integration to manufacture complex optoelectronic devices and modules. Our products are deployed in a variety of applications, including (i) optical, data, and wireless communications products; (ii) laser cutting, welding, marking, and other materials processing operations; (iii) 3D sensing consumer applications; (iv) aerospace and defense applications including intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; (v) semiconductor processing tools; and (vi) thermoelectric cooling and power-generation solutions. Through RD E investments and its strategic acquisitions, II-VI has expanded its portfolio of materials and product platforms. We believe that the materials we grow and fabricate are differentiated by one or a combination of unique optical, electrical, magnetic, thermal, and mechanical properties. II-VI s optics are shaped by precision surfacing techniques to meet the most stringent requirements for flat or curved geometries, functionalized with smooth or structured surfaces, or with patterned metallization. Proprietary processes developed at our global optical coating centers differentiate our products durability against high-energy lasers and extreme operating environments. Optical coatings also provide the desired spectral characteristics, ranging from the ultraviolet to the far-infrared. II-VI leverages these capabilities to deliver miniature to large-scale precision optical assemblies, including those in combination with thermal-management components, integrated electronics, and software. 6 II-VI also offers a broad portfolio of compound semiconductor lasers that are used in a variety of applications in our end markets. These lasers enable optical signal transmission, reception, and amplification in terrestrial and submarine communications networks; high-bit-rate server connectivity between and within datacenters; optical communications network monitoring; materials processing; and fast and accurate measurements in biomedical instruments and consumer electronics. II-VI continues to improve its operational capabilities, develop next-generation products, and invest in new technology platforms to drive growth in the short term and the long term. With our strategic focus on fast-growing and sustainable markets, II-VI pursues its mission of enabling the world to be safer, healthier, closer, and more efficient, and strives to attain its vision of a world transformed through innovations vital to a better life today and the sustainability of future generations. Acquisition and Background of Coherent, Inc. Coherent, one of the world's leading providers of laser solutions and optics for microelectronics, life sciences, industrial manufacturing, scientific and aerospace and defense markets, was acquired by II-VI on July 1, 2022. In fiscal year 2023, Coherent's operations will be included in the combined company, to be rebranded Coherent Corp., as the Lasers Segment. Except as otherwise indicated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information about II-VI as of June 30, 2022 or any earlier date, or for any period ended June 30, 2022 or any earlier date, does not include any financial, operational or other information regarding Coherent. Coherent delivers systems to the world's leading brands, innovators, and researchers, all backed with a global service and support network. Since inception in 1966, Coherent has grown through internal expansion and through strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, intellectual property, manufacturing processes, and product offerings. Coherent serves important end markets like microelectronics, precision manufacturing, and instrumentation, as well as applications in aerospace and defense. The word "laser" is an acronym for "light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation." A laser emits an intense coherent beam of light with some unique and highly useful properties. Most importantly, a laser is orders of magnitude brighter than any lamp. As a result of its coherence, the beam can be focused to a very small and intense spot, useful for applications requiring very high power densities including welding and other materials processing procedures. The laser's high spatial resolution is also useful for microscopic imaging and inspection applications. Laser light can be monochromatic all of the beam energy is confined to a narrow wavelength band. Lasers can produce the lasing action in the form of a gas, liquid, semiconductor, solid state crystal or fiber. Lasers can also be classified by their output wavelength: ultraviolet, visible, infrared or wavelength tunable. Coherent manufactures all of these laser types, in various options such as continuous wave, pulse duration, output power, beam dimensions, etc. Each application has its own specific requirements in terms of laser performance. Coherent s key laser applications include: semiconductor wafer inspection; manufacturing of advanced printed circuit boards; flat panel display manufacturing; solar cell production; medical and bio-instrumentation; materials processing; metal cutting and welding; industrial process and quality control; marking; imaging and printing; graphic arts and display; and research and development. For example, UV lasers are enabling the continuous move towards miniaturization, which drives innovation and growth in many markets. In addition, the advent of industrial grade ultrafast lasers continues to open up new applications for laser processing. Information Regarding Market Segments and Foreign Operations Financial data regarding our revenues, results of operations, industry segments, and international sales for the three years ended June 30, 2022, are set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) and in Note 14. Segment and Geographic Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. We also discuss certain Risk Factors set forth in