Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 85 Item 2. Properties 85 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 86 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 87 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 88 Item 6. [Reserved] 90 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 90 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 111 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 113 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 178 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 178 Item 9B. Other Information 178 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 178 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 179 Item 11. Executive Compensation 179 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 179 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 179 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 179 Part IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 180 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 183 1 SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Form 10-K, contains forward-looking statements. All statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, our business strategy and plans, market growth, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, estimate, potential, continue, anticipate, intend, expect, could, would, project, plan, target, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our net revenue, operating expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; anticipated trends, growth rates, and challenges in our business, the cryptoeconomy, and in the markets in which we operate; market acceptance of our products and services; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to maintain, expand, and further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to develop new products and services and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demand, and competitive pressures; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to continue to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services, or technologies and our ability to successfully integrate such companies or assets; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally; economic and industry trends, projected growth, or trend analysis; trends in revenue, cost of revenue, and gross margin; trends in operating expenses, including technology and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, and general and administrative expenses, and expectations regarding these expenses as a percentage of revenue; our key business metrics used to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, and make strategic decisions; increased expenses associated with being a public company; and other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, and prospects and business strategies. 2 We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Moreover, the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, restructurings, joint ventures, partnerships, or investments we may make. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. 3 Glossary to the Cryptoeconomy Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use a number of industry terms and concepts which are defined as follows: Address : An alphanumeric reference to where crypto assets can be sent or stored. Bitcoin : The first system of global, decentralized, scarce, digital money as initially introduced in a white paper titled Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System by Satoshi Nakamoto. Block : Synonymous with digital pages in a ledger. Blocks are added to an existing blockchain as transactions occur on the network. Miners are rewarded for mining a new block. Blockchain : A cryptographically secure digital ledger that maintains a record of all transactions that occur on the network and follows a consensus protocol for confirming new blocks to be added to the blockchain. Cold storage : The storage of private keys in any fashion that is disconnected from the internet. Common cold storage examples include offline computers, USB drives, or paper records. Crypto : A broad term for any cryptography-based market, system, application, or decentralized network. Crypto asset or token : Any digital asset built using blockchain technology, including cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and security tokens. Crypto Asset Volatility : Represents our internal measure of crypto volatility in the market relative to prior periods. The volatility of crypto assets is measured on an hourly basis (using 10 minute price intervals within each hour) for each crypto asset supported for trading on Coinbase, averaged over the applicable time period (quarterly), then weighted by each crypto asset s share of total trading volume during the same time period across a select set of trading platforms, in addition to the Coinbase platform, that operate in similar markets including itBit, Bitfinex, Bitstamp, bitFlyer, Binance.US, Binance, Kraken, Gemini, Bittrex, and Poloniex. Cryptocurrency : Bitcoin and alternative coins, or altcoins, launched after the success of Bitcoin. This category of crypto asset is designed to work as a medium of exchange, store of value, or to power applications and excludes security tokens. Cryptoeconomy : A new open financial system built upon crypto. Customer : A retail user, institution, or ecosystem partner on our platform. DeFi : Short for Decentralized Finance. Peer-to-peer software-based network of protocols that can be used to facilitate traditional financial services like borrowing, lending, trading derivatives, insurance, and more through smart contracts. Ecosystem partners : Developers, creators, merchants, asset issuers, organizations and financial institutions, and other groups building decentralized protocols, applications, products, or other services for the cryptoeconomy. Ethereum : A decentralized global computing platform that supports smart contract transactions and peer-to-peer applications, or Ether, the native crypto assets on the Ethereum network. Fork : A fundamental change to the software underlying a blockchain which results in two different blockchains, the original, and the new version. In some instances, the fork results in the creation of a new token. Hot wallet : A wallet that is connected to the internet, enabling it to broadcast transactions . 4 Institutions : Businesses that include hedge funds, small to large financial institutions, and corporations. Miner : Individuals or entities who operate a computer or group of computers that add new transactions to blocks, and verify blocks created by other miners. Miners collect transaction fees and are rewarded with new tokens for their services. Mining : The process by which new blocks are created, and thus new transactions are added to the blockchain. Network : The collection of all miners that use computing power to maintain the ledger and add new blocks to the blockchain. Most networks are decentralized, reducing the risk of a single point of failure. Non-fungible token or NFT : A crypto asset that is unique - as opposed to fungible assets like Bitcoin and dollar bills. Protocol : A type of algorithm or software that governs how a blockchain operates. Public key or private key : Each public address has a corresponding public key and private key that are cryptographically generated. A private key allows the recipient to access any funds belonging to the address, similar to a bank account password. A public key helps validate transactions that are broadcasted to and from the address. Addresses are shortened versions of public keys, which are derived from private keys. Retail users : Individual users with an account on our platform. Security token : A crypto asset that is a security under the U.S. federal securities laws. This includes digital forms of traditional equity or fixed income securities, or may be assets deemed to be a security based on their characterization as an investment contract or note. Smart contract : Software that digitally facilitates or enforces a rules-based agreement or terms between transacting parties. Stablecoin : Crypto assets designed to minimize price volatility. A stablecoin is designed to track the price of an underlying asset such as fiat money or an exchange-traded commodity (such as precious metals or industrial metals), while other stablecoins utilize algorithms that are designed to maintain a relative stable price of the asset. Stablecoins can be backed by fiat money, physical commodities or other crypto assets. Staking : An energy efficient equivalent of mining. Stakers use pools of tokens as collateral to validate transactions and create blocks. In exchange for this service, stakers earn a reward. Supported crypto assets : The crypto assets we support for trading and custody on our platform, which included 139 crypto assets for trading and 172 crypto assets under custody as of December 31, 2021. USD Coin or USDC : A stablecoin issued by Circle that is backed by dollar denominated assets held by the issuer in segregated accounts with U.S. regulated financial institutions. Coinbase and Circle co-founded the Centre Consortium which supports and administers the governance of USDC. Wallet : A place to store public and private keys for crypto assets. Wallets are typically software, hardware, or paper-based. 5 Wallet user : A retail user who has established an account with a username on our non-custodial software-based product. Coinbase Wallet is an application that allows the user to connect to DeFi applications and self-custody crypto assets. While they operate separately from our main platform, wallet users are included in the following key business metrics: Verified Users and Monthly Transacting Users, or MTUs. Web3 : A broad category of technologies that are defined by their use of internet protocols built on top of open source, decentralized and distributed systems. Examples of Web3 technologies include blockchain networks, cryptocurrencies, NFTs, and smart contracts. For additional information regarding our key business metrics, which include Verified Users, Monthly Transacting Users, Assets on Platform, and Trading Volume as well as our use of Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, see the sections titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Business Metrics and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measure in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 6 PART I Item 1. Business Coinbase Overview Our mission is to increase economic freedom in the world. We build safe, trusted, easy-to-use technology and financial infrastructure products and services that enable any person or business with an internet connection to discover, transact, and engage with crypto assets and decentralized applications. Our products provide access to the cryptoeconomy in more than 100 countries and serve as a critical infrastructure layer to Web3. Customers that start with us grow with us as they experience the benefits of crypto-based products for investing, staking, spending, borrowing and transacting in crypto in a growing number of use cases. Today, our platform enables approximately 89 million retail users, 11,000 institutions, and 210,000 ecosystem partners to engage with crypto assets: Retail users : We serve as the users primary crypto account, both hosted and self hosted safe, trusted, and easy-to-use ways to discover, invest, stake, store, spend, earn, borrow, and use crypto assets. Institutions : We provide a platform solution for safely accessing and transacting in crypto markets to institutions such as asset managers, hedge funds, banks, wealth platforms, registered investment advisors, payment platforms, and public and private corporations of all types. Coinbase Prime combines advanced trading, custody, analytics, and financing products on a single platform, built on top of a robust security infrastructure. Through our smart order routing tools, institutions can access deep pools of liquidity across the crypto marketplace and get the best priced execution in our network of connected trading venues when buying and selling. Ecosystem partners : We provide developers, creators, merchants, and asset issuers a platform with technology and services that enables them to build applications that leverage crypto protocols, actively participate in crypto networks, and securely accept cryptocurrencies as payment. Our Strengths 25+ native blockchain integrations and counting We directly integrate with over 25 blockchain protocols and plan to integrate with more in the future. Each protocol has a unique design, with differences in characteristics such as its consensus mechanism and security model, and requires in-depth research and specific expertise both for initial integration and ongoing monitoring as transactions are recorded on the public blockchain. Our experience allows us to swiftly adapt to updates in the blockchain protocol, or forks, to safely support new products like staking, and to creatively reduce fees for our customers through strategies like batching transactions. We are a market-leading brand exclusively focused on the cryptoeconomy We have deep expertise in real-time distributed computing, novel consensus mechanisms, smart contracts, cryptography, and native blockchain integrations that allow us to nimbly adapt to shifting trends and innovate with the industry. We have invested heavily in the scarce talent required to safely power the cryptoeconomy and employ teams dedicated to blockchain research, operations, and development to support the growth of the industry. 7 We have a trusted platform owing to our heritage of security and culture of regulatory compliance We have made significant investments in regulatory compliance and cybersecurity to earn the trust of our customers in over 100 countries. We work with regulators and law enforcement agencies around the world to drive policy and practices favorable to the cryptoeconomy, and to ensure we are licensed as appropriate under local law. We are proud to be one of the longest-running crypto platforms where customers have not lost funds due to a security breach of the platform, and we secure our customers funds with multiple layers of protection by employing what we believe to be the largest hot wallet security program in the insurance market. We reduce complexity and make crypto accessible and usable by all We reduce the complexity of crypto by infusing usability at the core of each of our products and services. Our emphasis on intuitive product design has allowed us to become a primary on-ramp for customers journeys into the cryptoeconomy. This begins with our simple onboarding process that allows retail users to sign up and quickly purchase their first crypto asset, and extends to new products and services that we launch to broaden access to the cryptoeconomy. We have significant scale, securely storing over 11.5% of global crypto assets and we grow with our customers As of December 31, 2021, we stored and custodied over $278 billion in total fiat and crypto assets on behalf of our customers. The total value of crypto assets on our platform represented approximately 11.5% of the total market capitalization of crypto assets as of December 31, 2021. We believe our market leading share of assets on our platform is a competitive advantage, and that we have a substantial opportunity to build on our customer relationships by growing with our customers and offering a broader suite of products and services. We operate a marketplace with one of the deepest pools of liquidity and a network effect We have a deep pool of liquidity for exchanging a wide range of crypto assets. Our deep liquidity is supported by a healthy mix of retail and institutional activity, highlighting the synergistic relationship and network effect between customers on our platform. Liquidity begets liquidity, and this advantage deepens as we continue to expand the breadth of crypto assets that we support and attract new customers to our platform. Growth Strategy Coinbase grows as the cryptoeconomy grows. There is significant momentum driving nearly every aspect of economic activity to be represented and exchanged online. We live in a world that is increasingly global, digital generations control a growing share of the world s wealth, and each year we see more commerce happening online. Each of these secular trends supports the growth of the cryptoeconomy and Coinbase. More importantly, we feel we have a tremendous opportunity to actively grow our business by adding more customers, increasing the depth and breadth of crypto assets on our platform, and introducing new, innovative products and services both organically and through acquisitions of complementary products, technologies and companies. Add more customers: Any person or business with an internet connection that is looking to access or interact with the cryptoeconomy can be an active user and customer on our platform. We seek to increase adoption and engagement with our products through education, marketing, participation in developer conferences, crypto community engagement and expanding our institutional sales and support teams. In addition, we are expanding access to our products and services by adding new payment methods and expanding to more countries. 8 Expand the depth and breadth of assets: Any asset or form of value can be represented as a crypto asset and be supported by our products, subject to meeting our security, legal, and compliance requirements. We intend to continue adding access to assets, support native blockchain protocol features like staking and governance and expand access to the types of crypto assets we offer to our customers, like NFTs. Launch innovative products: To provide our customers an increasing number of opportunities to engage with crypto assets we intend to provide both first-party products and access to third-party products through our platform. We will also continue to build APIs and provide products that allow other companies to leverage our technology and integrate crypto products and solutions into their businesses. In addition to continuing to develop and launch products and services organically, we have, and plan to continue to, actively pursue acquisitions of and strategic investments in products, technologies and companies that we believe will strengthen and expand our business and provide access to new customers and markets such as our acquisitions of Bison Trails and FairXchange, Inc. We also support the broader cryptoeconomy by investing in companies and technologies through Coinbase Ventures, our venture capital arm. Through December 31, 2021, we had invested in over 250 companies. Our goal with these investments is to foster the development and growth of the ecosystem, which we believe will in turn benefit Coinbase. Our Products We create powerful products and services for our customers using our proprietary technology infrastructure that has been purpose-built to meet the needs of the cryptoeconomy. We enable our customers to safely and easily participate in all facets of the cryptoeconomy, including using third-party decentralized applications, investing, staking, sending, receiving, spending, and earning crypto assets. Retail We serve as the users primary crypto account, both hosted and self-hosted providing safe, trusted, and easy-to-use tools to discover, invest, stake, store, spend, earn, borrow, and use crypto assets. We provide our retail users a hosted wallet which allows them to securely and easily discover, buy, sell, send and receive 139 crypto assets with a growing number of fiat currencies or to trade one crypto asset for another crypto asset. In our hosted wallet, we provide custody services on our customers behalf. We charge a fee when users buy, sell, or convert crypto assets in either a fiat-to-crypto or crypto-to-crypto trade. Through this hosted wallet, we offer first-party solutions that enable our users to engage in crypto transactions such as spending on our Coinbase Card, a Coinbase-branded prepaid debit card , borrowing USD against select crypto balances, or earning a yield on select crypto assets. We also provide services to allow our customers to participate in blockchain rewards paid by underlying protocols. The largest of these is staking where we offer a service known as Delegated Proof of Stake, which reduces the complexities of staking and allows our retail users to maintain full ownership of their crypto assets while earning staking rewards. In return, we receive a commission on all staking rewards earned. Coinbase Wallet, a separately managed retail software product, allows users to self-custody crypto assets and NFTs in one place and interact with the cryptoeconomy and Web3, including an expanded set of approximately 5,500 crypto assets and decentralized applications. A fee is charged for select activities executed in the self-hosted wallet. Institutions We offer Coinbase Prime, a one-stop shop for institutions to participate in the cryptoeconomy. Coinbase Prime combines advanced trading, custody, real-time market data and analytics, and financing products to help customers safely access and transact in crypto markets. Through our smart order routing tools, institutions can access deep pools of liquidity across the crypto marketplace and get the best priced execution in our network of connected trading venues when buying and selling. We offer volume-based pricing and charge a transaction fee for every matched trade. 9 We offer institutional-grade custody with a highly secure cold storage solution made available through our U.S. qualified custodian, which offers audits, governance, digital key management, and physical security. Our solution is vertically integrated with our investing platform, providing institutions with access to liquidity and trading services. We charge a fee based on the total assets stored in custody on our platform. We offer delegated proof-of-stake services for supported crypto assets, and similar to our retail users, earn a commission on staking rewards received. We offer integrated financing products and services to select institutional customers that meet our credit criteria to access liquidity for their hedging, speculation, and working capital needs. Customers typically need to pre-fund their account and maintain fiat or crypto assets on our platform in order to participate in the 24/7/365 instant settlement crypto market. We offer trade financing whereby we advance funds and settle on behalf of credit-eligible customers, removing a key point of friction by allowing customers to instantly trade on credit and settle within a few days. We also operate a crypto asset trading platform with deep liquidity that aggregates and matches buy and sell orders for a number of crypto assets. Coinbase Prime trades are routed directly to this platform, together with trades of market makers and trades from our retail business. We offer volume-based pricing and charge a transaction fee for every matched trade. Ecosystem partners We offer infrastructure technology and services to empower current and future builders of the cryptoeconomy through Coinbase Cloud. Coinbase Cloud offers crypto payment or trading APIs, data access, and staking infrastructure. These tools allow companies to build crypto products faster and to simplify how they interact with blockchains. In addition, we offer tools like Coinbase Analytics, a blockchain analytics tool that relies solely on publicly available blockchain data, that enables law enforcement and other financial institutions to monitor blockchain transactions. Our policy is to never share customer personally identifiable information with third parties as disclosed in our privacy policies. We also offer Coinbase Earn, a product that allows crypto asset issuers to engage with our customers through our technologies where we make educational videos available to our retail users to learn about new crypto assets and applications. In exchange for completing a task, such as watching the video and completing a quiz or downloading an app, retail users can earn some of the crypto assets that they learned about. We typically receive a commission based on the value of crypto assets that are distributed to our users. Competition The cryptoeconomy is highly fragmented, quickly evolving, intensely competitive, and subject to growing global regulatory scrutiny and oversight. We face significant competition from parties ranging from large, established financial incumbents to smaller, early-stage financial technology providers and companies native to the cryptoeconomy, such as decentralized exchanges. Moreover, this market is growing quickly and we expect that we will face competition from new entrants in the future that may increase competition in the markets we operate. For retail users, we compete with traditional financial technology and brokerage firms like Block (f/k/a Square), Robinhood, and PayPal. These companies have varying business models and focus areas and offer an overlapping, but limited, feature set, which includes buying and selling a subset of the crypto assets supported on our platform. In some cases, users who purchase through these platforms own the economic interest in a given crypto asset, but not the underlying asset itself, and therefore cannot use the asset to interact with the broader cryptoeconomy. We also compete with a number of companies that solely focus on the crypto market such as Binance. For institutions, we primarily compete with other crypto-focused companies, and a few traditional financial incumbents that offer point or siloed solutions that are limited in scope. 10 We differentiate ourselves through our cohesive ecosystem of products and services that address the distinct needs of our customers, our full-stack technology platform that is purpose-built for the cryptoeconomy, significant investments in regulatory compliance and licensure, advan