Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 85 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 85 Item 2. Properties 87 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 87 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 87 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 88 Item 6. [Reserved] 89 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 90 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 117 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 120 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 185 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 186 Item 9B. Other Information 187 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 187 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 188 Item 11. Executive Compensation 188 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 188 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 188 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 188 Part IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 188 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 191 Signatures 191 1 Glossary to the Cryptoeconomy Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we use a number of industry terms and concepts which are defined as follows: Address : An alphanumeric reference to where crypto assets can be sent or stored. Bitcoin : The first peer-to-peer electronic cash system of global, decentralized, scarce, digital money as initially introduced in a white paper titled Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System by Satoshi Nakamoto. Block : Synonymous with digital pages in a ledger. Blocks are added to an existing blockchain as transactions occur on the network. Miners are rewarded for mining a new block. Blockchain : A cryptographically secure digital ledger that maintains a record of all transactions that occur on the network and follows a consensus protocol for confirming new blocks to be added to the blockchain. Cold storage : The storage of private keys in any fashion that is disconnected from the internet. Common cold storage examples include offline computers, USB drives, or paper records. Crypto : A broad term for any cryptography-based market, system, application, or decentralized network. Crypto asset or token : Any digital asset built using blockchain technology, including cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and security tokens. Cryptocurrency : Bitcoin and alternative coins, or altcoins, launched after the success of Bitcoin. This category of crypto asset is designed to work as a medium of exchange, store of value, or to power applications and excludes security tokens. Cryptoeconomy : A new open financial system built upon crypto. Dapps : Decentralized applications, or Dapps, are applications that run on a decentralized network, typically using blockchain technology. DeFi : Short for Decentralized Finance. Peer-to-peer software-based network of protocols that can be used to facilitate traditional financial services like borrowing, lending, trading derivatives, insurance, and more through smart contracts. Ethereum : A decentralized global computing platform that supports smart contract transactions and peer-to-peer applications, or Ether, the native crypto assets on the Ethereum network. Fork : A fundamental change to the software underlying a blockchain which results in two different blockchains, the original, and the new version. In some instances, the fork results in the creation of a new token. Hot wallet : A wallet that is connected to the internet, enabling it to broadcast transactions. Layer 1 (L1) Blockchain : The foundational blockchain that provides essential services like recording transactions and ensuring security. Layer 2 (L2) Blockchain : This refers to network protocols layered on top of a L1 Blockchain. L2 Blockchains utilize the infrastructure of L1 Blockchains but offer greater flexibility in scaling, transaction processing and improving overall network throughput. Miner : Individuals or entities who operate a computer or group of computers that add new transactions to blocks, and verify blocks created by other miners. Miners collect transaction fees and are rewarded with new tokens for their services. 2 Mining : The process by which new blocks are created, and thus new transactions are added to the blockchain. Network : The collection of all nodes that use computing power to maintain the ledger and add new blocks to the blockchain. Most networks are decentralized, reducing the risk of a single point of failure. Node : A computer or group of computers that supports the operations of a blockchain network, by validating blocks, executing smart contracts, or storing copies of the blockchain available for other nodes in the network to establish consensus. Non-fungible token or NFT : A crypto asset that is unique - as opposed to fungible assets like Bitcoin and dollar bills. Onchain : Onchain typically refers to activities or processes that occur directly on a blockchain. It involves transactions, smart contracts, or any other operations that are recorded and executed within the blockchain network itself, as opposed to offchain activities that might occur outside the blockchain system. Protocol : A type of algorithm or software that governs how a blockchain operates. Public key or private key : Each public address has a corresponding public key and private key that are cryptographically generated. A private key allows the recipient to access any funds belonging to the address, similar to a bank account password. A public key helps validate transactions that are broadcasted to and from the address. Addresses are shortened versions of public keys, which are derived from private keys. Security token : A crypto asset that is a security under the U.S. federal securities laws. This includes digital forms of traditional equity or fixed income securities, or may be assets deemed to be a security based on their characterization as an investment contract or note. Self-custodied Walle t: A self-custodied wallet, also known as a self-hosted wallet, is a type of cryptocurrency wallet where the user holds the private keys, instead of a third-party. Smart contract : Software that digitally facilitates or enforces a rules-based agreement or terms between transacting parties. Stablecoin : Crypto assets designed to minimize price volatility. A stablecoin is designed to track the price of an underlying asset such as fiat money or an exchange-traded commodity (such as precious metals or industrial metals), while other stablecoins utilize algorithms that are designed to maintain a relative stable price of the asset. Stablecoins can be backed by fiat money, physical commodities or other crypto assets. Staking : An energy efficient equivalent of mining. Stakers use their tokens to validate transactions and create blocks. In exchange for this service, stakers earn a reward. Supported crypto assets : The crypto assets we support for trading and custody on our platform, which include crypto assets for trading and crypto assets under custody. For additional information regarding our key business metrics, which include Monthly Transacting Users and Trading Volume as well as our use of Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, see the sections titled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Business Metrics and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measure in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, our business strategy and plans, market growth, and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as believe, may, will, estimate, potential, continue, anticipate, intend, expect, could, would, project, plan, target, or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our net revenue, operating expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage any growth; anticipated trends, growth rates, and challenges in our business, the cryptoeconomy, the price and market capitalization of crypto assets and in the markets in which we operate; market acceptance of our products and services; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to maintain, expand, and further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to develop new products and services and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demand, and competitive pressures; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to continue to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services, or technologies and our ability to successfully integrate such companies or assets; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally given the highly evolving and uncertain regulatory landscape; general macroeconomic conditions, including interest rates, inflation, instability in the global banking system, economic downturns, and other global events, including regional wars and conflicts and government shutdowns; economic and industry trends, projected growth, or trend analysis; trends in revenue; trends in operating expenses, including technology and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, and general and administrative expenses, and expectations regarding these expenses as a percentage of revenue; our key business metrics used to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, and make strategic decisions; and 4 other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, and prospects and business strategies. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Moreover, the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, restructurings, joint ventures, partnerships, or investments we may make. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. 5 RISK FACTORS SUMMARY Consistent with the foregoing, our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those risks discussed at length below. These risks include, among others, the following, which we consider our most material risks: Our operating results have and will significantly fluctuate, including due to the highly volatile nature of crypto; Our total revenue is substantially dependent on the prices of crypto assets and volume of transactions conducted on our platform. If such price or volume declines, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected and the price of our Class A common stock could decline; Our net revenue may be concentrated in a limited number of areas. Within transaction revenue and subscription and services revenue, a meaningful concentration is from transactions in Bitcoin and Ethereum and stablecoin revenue in connection with USDC, respectively. If revenue from these areas declines and is not replaced by new demand for crypto assets or other products and services, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected; We have in the past, and may in the future, enter into partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures, or strategic alliances with third parties. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining strategic relationships with these third parties or if these third parties fail to deliver certain operational services, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected; Interest rate fluctuations could negatively impact us; The future development and growth of crypto is subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to predict and evaluate. If crypto does not grow as we expect, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected; Cyberattacks and security breaches of our platform, or those impacting our customers or third parties, could adversely impact our brand and reputation and our business, operating results, and financial condition; We are subject to an extensive, highly-evolving and uncertain regulatory landscape and any adverse changes to, or our failure to comply with, any laws and regulations could adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition; We operate in a highly competitive industry and we compete against unregulated or less regulated companies and companies with greater financial and other resources, and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively; We compete against a growing number of decentralized and noncustodial platforms and our business may be adversely affected if we fail to compete effectively against them; As we continue to expand and localize our international activities, our obligations to comply with the laws, rules, regulations, and policies of a variety of jurisdictions will increase and we may be subject to inquiries, investigations, and enforcement actions by U.S. and non-U.S. regulators and governmental authorities, including those related to sanctions, export control, and anti-money laundering; 6 We are, and may continue to be, subject to material litigation, including individual and class action lawsuits, as well as investigations and enforcement actions by regulators and governmental authorities. These matters are often expensive and time consuming, and, if resolved adversely, could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results; If we cannot keep pace with rapid industry changes to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services, and consequently our net revenue, could decline, which could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition; A particular crypto asset, product or service s status as a security in any relevant jurisdiction is subject to a high degree of uncertainty and if we are unable to properly characterize a crypto asset or product offering, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, inquiries, investigations, fines, and other penalties, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition; We currently rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our operations, and any interruptions in services provided by these third parties may impair our ability to support our customers; Loss of a critical banking or insurance relationship could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition; Any significant disruption in our products and services, in our information technology systems, or in any of the blockchain networks we support, could result in a loss of customers or funds and adversely impact our brand and reputation and our business, operating results, and financial condition; Our failure to safeguard and manage our and our customers fiat currencies and crypto assets could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition; and The theft, loss, or destruction of private keys required to access any crypto assets held in custody for our own account or for our customers may be irreversible. If we are unable to access our private keys or if we experience a hack or other data loss relating to our ability to access any crypto assets, it could cause regulatory scrutiny, reputational harm, and other losses. 7 PART I Item 1. Business Coinbase Overview Our mission is to increase economic freedom in the world. We are working to update the century-old financial system by providing a trusted platform that makes it easy for our customers to engage with crypto assets, including trading, staking, safekeeping, spending, and fast, free global transfers. We also provide critical infrastructure for onchain activities. Onchain activities are interactions with the blockchain that usually take place in a broad category of blockchain-powered technologies, including self-custody wallets, decentralized apps and services, and open community engagement platforms. Our Business We offer a suite of products and services that are designed to meet the distinct needs of our three customer groups: Consumers - individual retail user customers seeking to discover or trade crypto assets and engage in onchain activities. Institutions - businesses that include market makers, asset managers, hedge funds, banks, wealth platforms, registered investment advisors, payment platforms, and public and private corporations. Developers - developers, creators, merchants, crypto asset issuers, organizations and financial institutions, and other groups building decentralized protocols, applications, products, or other services onchain. When signing up for an account on our platform, among other requirements, consumer and institutional customers must certify that they are at least eighteen (18) years of age (if a natural person), agree to a user agreement, satisfy the requirements of our robust know-your-customer ( KYC ) program, and have read our privacy policy. Our platform serves as a trusted and compliant gateway to the onchain economy and enables our users to engage in a wide variety of activities, including discovering, trading, staking, storing, spending, earning, and using their crypto assets in both our own proprietary and third-party product experiences enabled by access to decentralized applications. Our product offerings primarily include trading products that generate transaction revenue as well as a variety of ecosystem products, many of which generate subscription and services revenue. We describe these products below. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we will refer to our full suite of products and offerings as our platform or platforms. Trading Products Trading is the primary source of our transaction revenue, and is driven by consumer and institutional customers. Consumer Trading Our platform is designed to serve a wide variety of consumers, whether they are buying their first crypto asset or are advanced traders. We offer two trading experiences: (i) a simple trading experience for consumers of any experience level seeking ease of use and (ii) an advanced trading experience for more sophisticated traders. Simple trading refers to buying and selling crypto assets using the basic interface of our platform, and includes value-added services such as fixed price quotes and recurring trades. Our advanced trading experience offers traders access to real-time market information through interactive 8 charts, order books, a live trade history on the advanced trade view, and other trading tools. We generate fees from consumers trading on our platform, including through volume-based transaction fees and a spread depending on the type of trade. We also offer a subscription product for consumers trading on our platform, which is described in more detail below. Coinbase Prime Through Coinbase Prime, our full-service prime brokerage platform, institutional customers can access deep pools of liquidity across trading venues and best price execution due to our ability to route trades through a network of connected trading venues. We offer volume-based pricing and charge a transaction fee for executed trades. Markets We provide market infrastructure in the form of trading venues for customers to trade spot and derivatives. We currently provide access to three trading venues: the Coinbase Exchange, the Coinbase International Exchange, and the Coinbase Derivatives Exchange. These markets generate revenue by charging a transaction fee for executed trades. Coinbase continues to gain traction in regulated derivatives as we continue to expand our offerings. For example, in September 2023, we secured regulatory approval from the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the BMA ) to enable perpetual futures for eligible non-U.S. customers through the Coinbase International Exchange. Ecosystem Products We also offer a suite of products and other services that are key parts of the crypto ecosystem. Stablecoins As part of our effort to update the financial system, we are focused on growing the stablecoin ecosystem. I n August 2023, we entered into an updated arrangement with the issuer of USDC to (i) support USDC, a stablecoin redeemable on a one-to-one basis for U.S. dollars; (ii) help drive long-term success of the stablecoin ecosystem; and (iii) continue to generate revenue through means other than transaction fees. Staking One of the most popular services customers often engage with is earning rewards on their crypto assets. Certain blockchain protocols, such as Ethereum, rely on staking to validate blockchain transactions. Network participants can designate a certain amount of their crypto assets on the network to validate transactions and get rewarded in kind from the network. Today, staking crypto assets is a technical challenge for most customers. Staking independently requires a participant to run their own hardware and software and maintain close to 100% up-time. We provide a true, onchain proof-of-stake service, which reduces the complexities of staking and allows our customers to maintain full ownership of their crypto assets while earning staking rewards. In return, we earn a commission on all staking rewards received. Subject to jurisdiction, we support seven staking assets through our platform for consumers as of December 31, 2023: Cardano (ADA), Cosmos (ATOM), Polkadot (DOT), Ethereum (ETH), MATIC (POL), Solana (SOL), and Tezos (XTZ). As of December 31, 2023, approximately $9.4 billion worth of these assets were held on behalf of individual consumers staked through our platform, as adjusted to USD. We also support staking of additional assets for our institutional customers. As of December 31, 2023, over $7.4 billion worth of assets were staked by institutional customers through Coinbase Prime, as adjusted to USD. In addition to operating our own validator nodes to provide staking services, we utilize third-party service providers to operate validator nodes on our customers behalf. 9 Because staking rewards depend on the relevant protocol and network conditions, the estimated rewards rate for each asset made available for staking is displayed on our website and through our platform, and is calculated by periodically consulting onchain data to determine the total amount earned by our stakers. We only facilitate staking of a user s crypto assets in response to a direct instruction from that user, and they remain the property of the user while staked, and a user s staked crypto assets remain in our custody. According to certain protocol rules, staked crypto assets cannot be sold or transferred while they remain staked, and we do not use or allocate users staked crypto assets for any other purpose. Custody We offer consumer and institutional customers a variety of custodial solutions underpinning our product offerings. For example, underpinning our Coinbase Prime product is an institutional-grade custody platform with a highly secure cold storage solution made available both within the United States and globally. We charge institutions a separate fee based on the total assets stored in custody on our platform. For example, we serve as a custodian for several Bitcoin ETF issuers. In January 2024, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) approved 11 spot Bitcoin ETF applications, eight of which are partnered with Coinbase. We do not charge our consumers a separate fee to safely store their crypto assets on our platform. We discuss our custodial practices for both institutions and consumers in further detail below. Coinbase One Consumers can transact on our platform through a subscription product, Coinbase One. Consumers pay a monthly fee in lieu of a transaction fee under a certain trading threshold and access a variety of benefits, including priority support. Financing Increasingly important to institutions is the ability to have access to financing products. We offer integrated financing products and services to select institutions that meet our credit criteria to access liquidity for their hedging, trading, and working capital needs. Customers typically need to pre-fund their account and maintain fiat or crypto assets on our platform in order to participate in the 24/7/365 instant settlement crypto market. We offer trade financing whereby we lend funds to credit-eligible customers, removing a key point of friction by allowing customers to instantly trade on credit and settle within a few days. We also earn interest income on loans outstanding. Coinbase Wallet We offer a self-custody software product to consumers globally, Coinbase Wallet, which allows them to engage and transact with the full universe of Dapps and crypto use cases without the need for a centralized intermediary such as Coinbase. Customers can link their Coinbase account to their Coinbase Wallet to transfer assets between the two. A benefit of Coinbase Wallet is that consumers have sole control over their private keys and seed phrase, which are stored directly on their mobile devices or personal storage accounts and not with a centralized exchange. If a Coinbase Wallet user loses their key or seed phrase, then we are unable to assist in recovery. Easier Onchain Access We also offer certain features to facilitate onchain activities. For example, our consumer and institutional customers can access third-party products and interact with certain Dapps using a web3 wallet feature that is integrated into our platform. A benefit of this feature is that the user does not need to navigate the complexities associated with private key management on their own, and in the case of our consumers, there is no need to download a separate wallet application. Additionally, this feature utilizes multi-party computation technology, which means that the customer benefits from two-layered security and Coinbase is able to assist with recovery in cases where a user loses their portion of the private key. 10 However, despite those safeguards, the user can still become permanently locked out, and the user s control of the feature can still be compromised, such as if the user does not secure their Coinbase account credentials or loses 