Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 Item 2. Properties 51 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 52 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 52 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 57 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 58 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 79 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 81 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 129 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 129 Item 9B. Other Information 130 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 131 Item 11. Executive Compensation 131 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 131 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 131 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 131 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 132 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 137 3 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These include statements relating to plans, prospects, goals, strategies, future actions, events or performance and other statements which are other than statements of historical fact, including all statements regarding the expected impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business; and statements regarding acquisitions including the acquired companies' financial position, market position, product development and business strategy, expected cost synergies, expected timing and benefits of the transaction, difficulties in integrating entities or operations, as well as estimates of our and the acquired entities' future expenses, sales and earnings per share are forward-looking. In addition, all statements regarding anticipated growth in our net sales, anticipated effects of any product recalls, anticipated market conditions, planned product launches and expected results of operations and integration of any acquisition are forward-looking. To identify these statements, look for words like believes, outlook, probable, expects, may, will, should, could, seeks, intends, plans, estimates or anticipates and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements necessarily depend on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause our actual results and future actions to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are those described in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the Business, Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2020, as such Risk Factors may be updated in quarterly filings. We caution investors that forward-looking statements reflect our analysis only on their stated date. We disclaim any intent to update them except as required by law. 4 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Summary Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. In addition to the summary below, you should carefully review the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be subject to additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. Some of the more significant risks relating to our business include: The effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions and new governmental regulations on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, including but not limited to the potential impact on our sales, operations and supply chain. Adverse changes in the global or regional general business, political and economic conditions, including the impact of continuing uncertainty and instability of certain countries, that could adversely affect our global markets, and the potential adverse economic impact and related uncertainty caused by these items, including but not limited to, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and escalating global trade barriers including additional tariffs, by countries such as China. Adverse changes in global political and economic conditions, and related uncertainty caused by the United Kingdom s (UK) withdrawal from the European Union (EU) and its potential impact on, among other things, the movement of goods and materials in our supply chain, additional regulatory approvals and requirements, and increased tariffs and duties. Changes in tax laws or their interpretation, changes in statutory tax rates, and adverse outcomes in tax disputes, including but not limited to, the U.S., the United Kingdom and other countries may affect our taxation of earnings recognized in foreign jurisdictions, result in unexpected tax liabilities, and/or negatively impact our effective tax rate. Foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations including the risk of fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies or interest rates that would decrease our net sales and earnings. Our existing and future variable rate indebtedness and associated interest expense is impacted by rate increases, which could adversely affect our financial health or limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Acquisition-related adverse effects including the failure to successfully obtain the anticipated net sales, margins and earnings benefits of acquisitions, integration delays or costs and the requirement to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period, required regulatory approvals for an acquisition not being obtained or being delayed or subject to conditions that are not anticipated, adverse impacts of changes to accounting controls and reporting procedures, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations, increased leverage and lack of access to available financing (including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms). Compliance costs and potential liability in connection with U.S. and foreign laws and health care regulations pertaining to privacy and security of personal information, such as HIPAA and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) in the U.S. and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements in Europe, including but not limited to those resulting from data security breaches. A major disruption in the operations of our manufacturing, accounting and financial reporting, research and development, distribution facilities or raw material supply chain due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, integration of acquisitions, man-made or natural disasters, cybersecurity incidents or other causes. A major disruption in the operations of our manufacturing, accounting and financial reporting, research and development or distribution facilities due to technological problems, including any 5 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES related to our information systems maintenance, enhancements or new system deployments, integrations or upgrades. Market consolidation of large customers globally through mergers or acquisitions resulting in a larger proportion or concentration of our business being derived from fewer customers. Disruptions in supplies of raw materials, particularly components used to manufacture our silicone hydrogel lenses. New U.S. and foreign government laws and regulations, and changes in existing laws, regulations and enforcement guidance, which affect areas of our operations including, but not limited to, those affecting the health care industry, including the contact lens industry specifically and the medical device or pharmaceutical industries generally, including but not limited to the EU Medical Devices Regulation (MDR) and the EU In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Regulation (IVDR). Legal costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs and the risk of an adverse decision, prohibitive injunction or settlement related to product liability, patent infringement or other litigation. Limitations on sales following product introductions due to poor market acceptance. New competitors, product innovations or technologies, including but not limited to, technological advances by competitors, new products and patents attained by competitors, and competitors' expansion through acquisitions. Reduced sales, loss of customers and costs and expenses related to product recalls and warning letters. Failure to receive, or delays in receiving, regulatory approvals for products. Failure of our customers and end users to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for our products and services. The requirement to provide for a significant liability or to write off, or accelerate depreciation on, a significant asset, including goodwill, other intangible assets and idle manufacturing facilities and equipment. The success of our research and development activities and other start-up projects. Dilution to earnings per share from acquisitions or issuing stock. Impact and costs incurred from changes in accounting standards and policies. Environmental risks, including increasing environmental legislation and the broader impacts of climate change. 6 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Item 1 . Business . The Cooper Companies, Inc. (Cooper, we or the Company), a Delaware corporation organized in 1980, is a global medical device company publicly traded on the NYSE (NYSE: COO). Cooper operates through two business units, CooperVision and CooperSurgical. CooperVision is a global manufacturer providing products for contact lens wearers. CooperVision develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of single-use, two-week and monthly contact lenses, featuring advanced materials and optics. CooperVision designs its products to solve vision challenges such as astigmatism, presbyopia, myopia, ocular dryness and eye fatigues; with a broad collection of spherical, toric and multifocal contact lenses. Acquisitions also expanded CooperVision's access to myopia management and specialty eye care markets with new products, such as orthokeratology (ortho-k) and scleral lenses. In November 2019, CooperVision received United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for its MiSight 1 day lens, which is the first and only FDA-approved product indicated to slow the progression of myopia in children with treatment initiated between the ages of 8-12 and became available in the United States during fiscal 2020. Further, CooperVision offers contact lenses in a variety of materials including silicone hydrogel Aquaform technology and phosphorylcholine technology (PC) Technology . CooperVision s major manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Belgium, Costa Rica, Hungary, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom and the United States, with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. CooperSurgical's business competes in the general health care market with a focus on advancing the health of women, babies and families through a diversified portfolio of products and services including medical devices, fertility, diagnostics and contraception. CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring companies, products and services that complement its business model. We categorize CooperSurgical product sales based on the point of health care delivery, which includes products used in medical office and surgical procedures, primarily by Obstetricians/Gynecologists (OB/GYN); and fertility products/equipment and genetic testing services used primarily in fertility clinics and laboratories. CooperSurgical's major manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Costa Rica, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. CooperVision and CooperSurgical each operate in highly competitive environments. Both of Cooper's businesses compete predominantly on the basis of product quality and differentiation, technological benefit, price, service and reliability. COOPERVISION CooperVision competes in the worldwide soft contact lens market and services three primary regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific. The contact lens market has two major product categories: Spherical lenses including lenses that correct near- and farsightedness uncomplicated by more complex visual defects. Toric and multifocal lenses including lenses that, in addition to correcting near- and farsightedness, address more complex visual defects such as astigmatism and presbyopia by adding optical properties of cylinder and axis, which correct for irregularities in the shape of the cornea. In order to achieve comfortable and healthy contact lens wear, products are sold with recommended replacement schedules, often defined as modalities, with the primary modalities being single-use lenses and frequently replaced lenses, which are designed for two-week and monthly replacement. 7 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CooperVision offers spherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens products in most modalities. We believe that in order to compete successfully in the numerous categories of the contact lens market, companies must offer differentiated products that are priced competitively and manufactured efficiently. CooperVision uses three different manufacturing processes to produce its lenses: lathing, cast molding and FIPS , a cost-effective combination of lathing and molding. We believe this manufacturing flexibility allows CooperVision to compete in its markets by: Producing high, medium and low volumes of lenses made with a variety of materials for a broader range of market niches: single-use, two-week, monthly and quarterly disposable sphere, toric and multifocal lenses and custom toric lenses for patients with a high degree of astigmatism. Offering a wide range of lens parameters, leading to a higher rate of successful fitting for practitioners and better visual acuity for patients. The market for spherical lenses is growing with the addition of new value-added products, such as spherical lenses to alleviate dry eye symptoms, reduce eye fatigue from use of digital devices and add aspherical optical properties and/or higher oxygen permeable lenses such as silicone hydrogels. Sales of contact lenses utilizing silicone hydrogel materials continue to grow. Silicone hydrogel materials supply a higher level of oxygen to the cornea, as measured by the transmissibility of oxygen through a given thickness of material, or dk/t, than traditional hydrogel lenses. We believe our ability to compete successfully with a full range of silicone hydrogel products is an important factor to achieving success in our business. Silicone hydrogel lenses represent a significant portion of CooperVision's contact lens sales and our Biofinity brand is CooperVision's leading product line in terms of sales. Under the Biofinity brand, CooperVision markets monthly silicone hydrogel spherical (including Biofinity Energys ), toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens products. CooperVision markets single-use silicone hydrogel lenses with a complete line of spherical, toric, extended toric and multifocal lenses under our clariti 1 day brand and single-use silicone hydrogel spherical and toric lenses under our MyDay brand. We also compete in the traditional hydrogel single-use product segment with several lenses including our Proclear 1 day lenses. We believe the global market for single-use contact lenses will continue to grow and that our competitive silicone hydrogel and traditional hydrogel product offerings represent an opportunity for our business. In addition to its silicone hydrogel product offerings, CooperVision competes in the contact lens market with other traditional hydrogel products. CooperVision believes that our key accounts which include optical chains, global retailers, certain buying groups and mass merchandisers are growing faster than the overall market. We are focused on supporting the growth of all our customers by investing in selling, promotional and advertising activities. Further, we are increasing investment in our distribution and packaging capabilities to support the growth of our business and to continue providing quality service with our industry leading SKU range and customized offerings. CooperVision believes that myopia management opens up an attractive new market for contact lenses. With MiSight, CooperVision offers the only FDA approved product to control the progression of myopia in children. CooperVision is investing to create this new market by educating eye care practitioners, patients and their families which increases awareness. CooperVision is focused on greater worldwide market penetration of recently introduced products, and we continue to expand our presence in existing and emerging markets, including through acquisitions. In fiscal 2020, CooperVision completed the acquisition of a privately-held U.S contact lens manufacturer focusing on ortho-k lenses. This acquisition expands CooperVision s specialty eye care portfolio and its leadership in addressing the increasing severity and prevalence of myopia. In fiscal 2019, CooperVision 8 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES acquired a privately-held scleral lens company, which expands CooperVision's specialty and scleral lens portfolio. Contact Lens Product Sales CooperVision Competition The contact lens market is highly competitive. CooperVision's largest competitors in the worldwide market and its primary competitors in the spherical, toric and multifocal lens categories of that market are Johnson Johnson Vision Care, Inc., Alcon Inc. and Bausch Health Companies Inc. CooperVision's competitors may have greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes. CooperVision seeks to offer a high level of customer service through its direct sales organizations around the world and through telephone sales and technical service representatives who consult with eye care professionals about the use of our lens products. CooperVision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and with refractive surgical procedures that correct visual defects including laser vision correction. CooperVision believes that laser vision correction is not a significant threat to its sales of contact lenses based on the growth of the contact lens market over the past decade. CooperVision competes in the silicone hydrogel segment of the market with its following products: clariti 1 day brand of single-use sphere, toric and multifocal lenses; MyDay single-use spherical and toric lenses; Biofinity monthly spherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lenses and Avaira Vitality TM two-week spherical and toric lenses. CooperVision believes the clariti 1 day and MyDay brands of single-use contact lenses provide the broadest product portfolio in the single-use silicone hydrogel market. CooperVision offers both branded and private label options in contact lenses. Its private label option is frequently offered as part of a larger customized solution for its customers. It also competes in the specialty contact lens space with its FDA approved MiSight 1 day contact lens for myopia management, when first prescribed to children ages 8-12, as well as OrthoK and scleral lenses. In addition to a broad offering of silicone hydrogel and specialty contact lenses, CooperVision competes with different manufacturing processes which allow it to produce a broad range of spheres, toric and multifocal lens parameters, which we believe provides wide choices for patient and practitioner and a high level of visual acuity. We also compete based on our customer and professional services. CooperVision believes that there are opportunities for contact lenses to gain market share, particularly in markets where the penetration of contact lenses in the vision correction market is low. 9 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES COOPERSURGICAL CooperSurgical offers a broad array of products and services focused on advancing the health of women, babies and families through a diversified portfolio of products and services including medical devices, fertility, genomics, diagnostics and contraception. We offer quality products, innovative technologies and superior services to health care professionals and patients worldwide. CooperSurgical collaborates with health care professionals to identify products and new technologies from disposable products to diagnostic tests to sophisticated instruments and equipment, to bring new products to market. The result is a broad portfolio of products and services that are intended to aid in the delivery of improved clinical outcomes that health care professionals use routinely in the diagnosis and treatment of a wide spectrum of women's health and reproductive issues. Since its inception in 1990, CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring products and companies that complement its business model. In fiscal 2020, CooperSurgical acquired a privately-held distributor of IVF medical devices and systems. In fiscal 2019, CooperSurgical acquired a privately-held U.S. medical device company that develops mechanical surgical solutions for skin closure. We intend to continue investing in CooperSurgical's business with the goal of expanding our integrated solutions model within the areas of family health, fertility and diagnostics. Market for Women's and Family Reproductive Health Care CooperSurgical participates in the market for family health care with its diversified product lines in three major categories based on the point of health care delivery: hospitals and surgical centers, OB/GYN medical offices and fertility clinics. CooperSurgical expects patient visits to Women s Health provider offices in the United States to increase over the next decade. From adolescent care to geriatrics, there is increased awareness of women s health issues. During the reproductive years, fertility awareness and family planning are key areas of focus. CooperSurgical expects growth in fertility treatments as infertility rates increase and awareness of and access to services expand. The attention in maternity care to improving the safety and efficacy of obstetrical care continues. As we expect an increase in the population of women over the age of 65, office visits focused around abnormal bleeding, incontinence and menopause will likely increase. Another trend in the market for women's health care includes the continued migration of OB/GYN health care professionals away from private practice ownership and toward aligning with group practices or employment with hospitals and health care systems. This trend includes the increasing influence of supply chain controls, such as value analysis committees, on product evaluation and procurement. CooperSurgical believes that the market factors that are driving this trend will continue in the near term. We believe our broad product portfolio can be a benefit in this changing environment as health systems look to standardize and consolidate vendors. Recent trends in the United States market include the development of more cost-effective health care delivery models, including moving treatment out of hospitals and surgery centers and into the office setting without compromising care. We expect this trend to continue. While general medical practitioners play an important role in women's primary care, the OB/GYN specialist is the primary market for our medical devices. Some significant features of this market are: Routine office visits: annual well-women checkups, preventative cancer screening and contraception. 10 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Evaluation and management (E/M) office visits: assessment of menstrual disorders, pelvic infections, urinary incontinence, abnormal Pap smears, fertility concerns, pregnancy and menopause. Approximately a third of gynecology office visits are related to abnormal uterine bleeding. Office based procedures are increasing given high patient satisfaction, reduction of health system cost and comparative clinical outcomes. Hysterectomy and cesarean section remain common hospital surgical interventions in women worldwide. Infertility rates are increasing globally. Patient awareness and access are also on the rise. Initial evaluation and treatments for infertility, such as ovulatory medications and intrauterine insemination (IUI), begin with the OB/GYN then transition to fertility clinics. In-Vitro Fertilization (IVF) is performed by reproductive endocrinologists, specialized OB/GYNs. Women's and Family Reproductive Health Care Product Sales CooperSurgical Competition CooperSurgical focuses on selected segments of the family and women's health care market with a diversified portfolio of products and services including medical devices in outpatient and operating room settings, fertility and contraception. In some instances, CooperSurgical offers all the items needed for a complete procedure. CooperSurgical believes that opportunities exist for continued market consolidation. Competitive factors in these segments in which CooperSurgical competes include technological and scientific advances, product quality and availability, price, customer service including response time and effective communication of product information to physicians, fertility clinics and hospitals. Competition in the medical device industry is dynamic and involves the search for technological and therapeutic innovations. CooperSurgical's strategy includes developing and acquiring new products. CooperSurgical continues to expand its presence in the significantly larger hospital and outpatient surgical procedure segment of the market that is at present dominated by bigger competitors such as Johnson Johnson, Boston Scientific, Hologic and Medtronic. These competitors have well-established positions within the operating room environment. CooperSurgical leverages its relationship with gynecologic 11 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES surgeons and focus on devices specific to gynecologic surgery to facilitate our expansion within the surgical segment of the market. CooperSurgical also competes in the fertility category of the women's and family health care market. We have broad product offerings for fertility evaluations and IVF procedures by OB/GYN, reproductive endocrinologists and embryologists. These include products for use by the OB/GYN in their offices for initial evaluations with office-based hysteroscopy and first line treatments such as intrauterine insemination. In fertility clinics, our products include media, micro tools and lab equipment; and to improve IVF outcomes we offer screening testing services intended to increase implantation rates and decrease miscarriages. CooperSurgical leverages its relationship with fertility clinics to expand its presence in the fertility market against competitors in the media and microtools categories that include Vitrolife, Cook and FujiFilm-Irvine Scientific and competitors in fertility and familial reproductive genetic testing that include Natera, Invitae and Igenomix. CooperSurgical competes in the Intrauterine Device (IUD) market. PARAGARD is the only FDA approved non-hormonal IUD option in the United States and has a 10-year use indication. In the United States, where all IUDs within the Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptive (LARC) space are regulated as drug products, we compete with manufacturers of hormonal IUDs including Bayer and AbbVie Allergan. Outside of the United States, non-hormonal IUDs are typically regulated as devices and are sold by a number of manufacturers. Currently, PARAGARD is not sold outside of the United States. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company employs approximately 200 people in research and development. CooperVision's product development and clinical research is supported by internal and external specialists in lens design, formulation science, polymer chemistry, clinical trials, microbiology and biochemistry. CooperVision's research and development activities primarily include programs to develop new contact lens designs and manufacturing technology, along with improving formulations and existing products. CooperSurgical conducts research and development in-house and has consulting agreements with external specialists. CooperSurgical's research and development activities include the design and improvement of surgical procedure devices, the advancement and expansion of CooperSurgical's portfolio of assisted reproductive technology (ART) products, genetic screening and testing, as well as products within the general OB/GYN offerings. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Medical Device and Pharmaceutical Regulation Most of our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and other regulatory bo