Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 39 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 39 Item 2. Properties 41 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6. Reserved 44 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 45 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 88 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 88 Item 9B. Other Information 92 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 92 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 94 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 98 3 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These include statements relating to plans, prospects, goals, strategies, future actions, events or performance and other statements which are other than statements of historical fact, including: statements regarding the expected impact of global macroeconomic conditions, and statements regarding acquisitions (including the acquired companies' financial position, market position, product development and business strategy, expected cost synergies, expected timing and benefits of the transaction, difficulties in integrating entities or operations, as well as estimates of our and the acquired entities' future expenses, sales and earnings per share) that are forward-looking. In addition, all statements regarding anticipated growth in our net sales, anticipated effects of any product recalls, anticipated market conditions, planned product launches, restructuring or business transition expectations, regulatory plans, and expected results of operations and integration of any acquisition are forward-looking. To identify these statements, look for words like believes, outlook, probable, expects, may, will, should, could, seeks, intends, plans, estimates or anticipates and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements necessarily depend on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause our actual results and future actions to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are those described in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the Business, Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2024, as such Risk Factors may be updated in quarterly filings. We caution investors that forward-looking statements reflect our analysis only on their stated date. We disclaim any intent to update them except as required by law. 4 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Summary Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. In addition to the summary below, you should carefully review the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be subject to additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. Some of the more significant risks relating to our business include: Adverse changes in the global or regional general business, political and economic conditions, including the impact of continuing uncertainty and instability of certain countries, man-made or natural disasters and pandemic conditions, that could adversely affect our global markets, and the potential adverse economic impact and related uncertainty caused by these items. The impact of international conflicts and the global response to international conflicts on the global and local economy, financial markets, energy markets, currency rates and our ability to supply product to, or through, affected countries. Our substantial and expanding international operations and the challenges of managing an organization spread throughout multiple countries and complying with a variety of legal, compliance and regulatory requirements. Foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations including the risk of fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies or interest rates that would decrease our net sales and earnings. Our existing and future variable rate indebtedness and associated interest expense is impacted by rate increases, which could adversely affect our financial health or limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Changes in tax laws, examinations by tax authorities, and changes in our geographic composition of income. Acquisition-related adverse effects including the failure to successfully achieve the anticipated net sales, margins and earnings benefits of acquisitions, integration delays or costs and the requirement to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period, required regulatory approvals for an acquisition not being obtained or being delayed or subject to conditions that are not anticipated, adverse impacts of changes to accounting controls and reporting procedures, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations, increased leverage and lack of access to available financing (including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms). Compliance costs and potential liability in connection with U.S. and foreign laws and health care regulations pertaining to privacy and security of personal information, such as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) in the U.S. and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements in Europe, including but not limited to those resulting from data security breaches. A major disruption in the operations of our manufacturing, accounting and financial reporting, research and development, distribution facilities or raw material supply chain due to challenges associated with integration of acquisitions, man-made or natural disasters, pandemic conditions, cybersecurity incidents or other causes. A major disruption in the operations of our manufacturing, accounting and financial reporting, research and development or distribution facilities due to the failure to perform by third-party vendors, including cloud computing providers or other technological problems, including any related to our information systems maintenance, enhancements or new system deployments, integrations or upgrades. A successful cybersecurity attack which could interrupt or disrupt our information technology systems, or those of our third-party service providers, or cause the loss of confidential or protected data. Market consolidation of large customers globally through mergers or acquisitions resulting in a larger proportion or concentration of our business being derived from fewer customers. Disruptions in supplies of raw materials, particularly components used to manufacture our silicone hydrogel lenses. New U.S. and foreign government laws and regulations, and changes in existing laws, regulations and enforcement guidance, which affect areas of our operations including, but not limited to, those affecting the health care industry, including the contact lens industry specifically and the medical device or pharmaceutical industries generally, including but not limited to the EU Medical Devices Regulation (MDR) and the EU In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Regulation (IVDR). Legal costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs and the risk of an adverse decision, prohibitive injunction or settlement related to product liability, patent infringement, contractual disputes, or other litigation. Limitations on sales following product introductions due to poor market acceptance. New competitors, product innovations or technologies, including but not limited to, technological advances by competitors, new products and patents attained by competitors, and competitors' expansion through acquisitions. Reduced sales, loss of customers, reputational harm and costs and expenses, including from claims and litigation related to product recalls and warning letters. Failure to receive, or delays in receiving, regulatory approvals or certifications for products. 5 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Failure of our customers and end users to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers for our products and services. The requirement to provide for a significant liability or to write off, or accelerate depreciation on, a significant asset, including goodwill, other intangible assets and idle manufacturing facilities and equipment. The success of our research and development activities and other start-up projects. Dilution to earnings per share from acquisitions or issuing stock. Impact and costs incurred from changes in accounting standards and policies. Risks related to environmental laws and requirements applicable to our facilities, products or manufacturing processes, including evolving regulations regarding the use of hazardous substances or chemicals in our products. Risks related to environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues, including those related to regulatory and disclosure requirements, climate change and sustainability. 6 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Item 1 . Business . OVERVIEW The Cooper Companies, Inc. (Cooper, we or the Company), is a global medical device company with a mission to improve lives one person at a time. We partner with health care providers worldwide to improve patient outcomes and deliver practice-building resources and training. By listening closely to the healthcare providers and patients, we fulfill the needs of today while focusing on the opportunities of tomorrow through innovation and strategic investment. Cooper operates through two business segments, CooperVision and CooperSurgical. Our two business segments elevate standards of care with products and services in the fields of vision, fertility and women s health. For financial information relating to these business segments, refer to Note 12. Business Segment Information in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report. CooperVision is a global manufacturer providing products for contact lens wearers. CooperVision develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of single-use, two-week and monthly contact lenses, featuring advanced materials and optics. CooperVision designs its products to address vision challenges such as astigmatism, presbyopia and myopia with a broad collection of spherical, toric and multifocal contact lenses. CooperVision offers contact lenses in materials like silicone hydrogel Aquaform technology. CooperVision also manufactures and markets myopia management products, including the internally developed MiSight 1 day lens, as well as other specialty eyecare products such as orthokeratology (ortho-k) and scleral lenses. In November 2019, the MiSight 1 day lens became the first and only product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for slowing the progression of myopia in children aged 8-12 at the initiation of treatment, and in August 2021, CooperVision received Chinese National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approval for use of the MiSight 1 day lens in China. CooperVision s major manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Belgium, Costa Rica, Hungary, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom and the United States, with other smaller facilities in multiple locations around the world. CooperSurgical offers a broad array of products and services focused on fertility and women's health. We categorize CooperSurgical product sales based on the point of health care delivery, which includes: products used in medical offices, ambulatory surgery centers and hospitals primarily by women's health providers including Obstetricians/Gynecologists (OB/GYN); and fertility products and services used primarily in fertility clinics. Our portfolio encompasses more than 600 products and services. Our medical devices are used in gynecology and obstetrics, including but not limited to surgical products, contraception and labor and delivery as well as cord blood and cord tissue storage services. Our fertility portfolio encompasses medical devices supporting the in vitro fertilization (IVF) process, egg and sperm donation, cryopreservation, and genomic services (including genetic testing). CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring companies, products and services that complement its business model. CooperSurgical's major manufacturing, cryostorage and distribution facilities are located in Costa Rica, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, with other smaller facilities in multiple locations around the world. SEGMENT INFORMATION CooperVision CooperVision competes in the worldwide soft contact lens market and services three primary regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific. The two major product categories of contact lenses sold by CooperVision are: Toric and multifocal lenses, including lenses that, in addition to correcting near- and farsightedness, address more complex visual defects such as astigmatism, myopia and presbyopia by adding optical properties of cylinder and axis, which correct for irregularities in the shape of the cornea; and Spherical lenses, including lenses that correct near- and farsightedness uncomplicated by more complex visual defects, myopia management lenses, which slow the progression of and correct myopia in age-appropriate children, and other specialty lenses. In order to achieve a comfortable and healthier lens wearing experience, products are sold with recommended wearing and replacement schedules, often referred to as modalities, with the primary modalities being single-use lenses designed for one-day use and frequent replacement (FRP) lenses designed for two-week and monthly replacement. CooperVision offers spherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens products in most modalities and in a wide range of lens parameters. CooperVision Product Modalities 7 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Frequent replacement lenses Under the Biofinity brand, CooperVision markets monthly silicone hydrogel spherical (including Biofinity Energys), toric, multifocal and toric multifocal (made-to-order) lens products. Our Biofinity brand is CooperVision's highest grossing product. CooperVision also markets two-week silicone hydrogel spherical and toric lenses under the Avaira Vitality brand. Single-use lenses CooperVision markets single-use silicone hydrogel lenses under our MyDay brand and our clariti 1 day brand. The MyDay brand is our softest line of 1-day silicone hydrogel lenses and offers spherical (including MyDay Energys), toric, and multifocal lenses. The clariti 1-day brand is our most affordable line of silicone hydrogel 1-day lenses and offers spherical, toric, and multifocal lenses. CooperVision also offers traditional single-use hydrogel lenses under our Proclear and Biomedics brands. CooperVision focuses on supporting the growth of all customers including key accounts (which include optical chains, global retailers, certain buying groups and mass merchandisers) by investing in selling, promotional and advertising activities. Further, we are increasing investment in our distribution and packaging capabilities to support the growth of our business and to continue providing quality service with our industry leading stock keeping unit range and customized offerings. Market for Contact Lenses The market for spherical lenses is growing with the addition of new value-added products, such as spherical lenses that may provide improved comfort for contact lens related dryness during lens wear and that add aspherical optical properties, more higher oxygen permeable lenses such as silicone hydrogels, and myopia management contact lenses for children aged 8 to 12 years old. CooperVision believes that there are opportunities for contact lenses to gain market share, particularly in markets where the penetration of contact lenses in the vision correction market is low. We believe that myopia management opens up an attractive new market for contact lenses. With MiSight, we offer the only FDA approved 1 and first Chinese NMPA approved product to slow the progression of, and correct, myopia in age-appropriate children. This is a critical differentiator as the proactive management of myopia becomes standard-of-care within the eye care community to help reduce the progression of myopia in children, along with reducing the risks of long-term eye health problems associated with myopia such as cataracts, retinal detachment, and macular degeneration. We are investing to develop this new market by educating eye care practitioners, patients and their families, which increases awareness. CooperVision is focused on greater worldwide market penetration of recently introduced products, and we continue to expand our presence in existing and emerging markets, both organically and through acquisitions. CooperSurgical CooperSurgical focuses on advancing fertility and women's health through a diversified portfolio including fertility products and services, medical devices, cryostorage (such as cord blood and cord tissue storage) and contraception. We offer quality products, innovative technologies and superior services to health care professionals and patients worldwide. CooperSurgical collaborates with health care professionals to identify products and new technologies to bring to market. The result is a broad portfolio of products and services that are intended to aid in the delivery of improved clinical outcomes for patients and are routinely used by health care professionals in the diagnosis and treatment of a wide spectrum of women's health and reproductive issues. CooperSurgical distributes its products and services through OB/GYN and medical offices, hospital and ambulatory surgery centers and fertility clinics, as well as direct-to-consumer. A focus area for CooperSurgical is key accounts, which include large group practices, integrated delivery networks and certain buying groups within the office/surgical business and fertility clinic networks within the fertility business. We believe our portfolio of offerings and focus on service, quality and clinical education will help increase our share of business within these key account groups. Since its inception in 1990, CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring products and companies that complement its business model. In fiscal 2024, CooperSurgical 1 MiSight 1 day (omafilcon A) soft (hydrophilic) contact lenses for daily wear are indicated for the correction of myopic ametropia and for slowing the progression of myopia in children with non-diseased eyes, who at the initiation of treatment are 8-12 years of age and have a refraction of -0.75 to -4.00 diopters (spherical equivalent) with 0.75 diopters of astigmatism. The lens is to be discarded after each removal. 8 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES acquired select Cook Medical assets focused primarily on the obstetrics, doppler monitoring, and gynecology surgery markets, a fertility company that specializes in sperm separation devices, and obp Surgical, a U.S.-based medical device company with a suite of single-use cordless surgical retractors with integrated light source and evacuation channels. We expect to continue investing in CooperSurgical's business, including through strategic transactions, with the goal of expanding our integrated solutions model within the areas of fertility and women's health. CooperSurgical Product Categories Office/Surgical CooperSurgical sells a wide variety of innovative medical devices and services used in gynecology and obstetrics, including in labor and delivery, as well as to screen, diagnose and treat women's health and reproductive conditions. CooperSurgical offers the cryostorage of newborn cord blood and cord tissue, which are potent sources of stem cells that have the potential for treatment and healing. Our newborn stem cell storage services are available in the United States, Canada and Australia. Paragard is a hormone-free intrauterine device (IUD) offered by CooperSurgical that prevents pregnancy for up to ten years using copper as the only active ingredient. It is the only FDA approved non-hormonal IUD contraceptive option and is exclusively sold in the United States. Fertility CooperSurgical has broad product offerings for fertility evaluations and IVF procedures by OB/GYN professionals, reproductive endocrinologists and embryologists. In fertility clinics, our products include media, micro-tools and lab equipment. Additionally, CooperSurgical offers services to clinics and families undergoing assisted reproductive technologies including donor gametes, cryostorage, and genomic services. Market for Fertility and Women's Health Care CooperSurgical participates in the market for women's and family health care with its diversified product lines at various points of health care delivery: OB/GYN medical offices, hospitals and surgery centers, and fertility clinics. CooperSurgical s business also includes cryostorage services for gametes, cord blood and cord tissue. CooperSurgical expects that OB/GYN medical offices and fertility clinics will continue to move away from private practice ownership and toward group practices, private equity, corporate or other ownership. As the consolidation trend continues it will have increased influence over supply chain control, group purchases, value analysis committees, product evaluation and procurement. We believe CooperSurgical's broad product portfolio can benefit in this changing environment as customers look to standardize and consolidate vendors. Trends specific in the OB/GYN market include: The increase in office-based and outpatient procedures, given increased access to care, high patient satisfaction, reduction of healthcare costs and comparative clinical outcomes. A focus on reducing pregnancy and childbirth complications. The obstetrician being a key contributor to stem cell storage, facilitating the collection of cord blood and cord tissue following delivery in most markets. Initial evaluation and treatments for infertility, such as uterine assessment, ovulatory medications and intrauterine insemination (IUI), beginning with the OB/GYN and then transitioning to fertility clinics. Trends specific in the fertility market include: Infertility rates are increasing globally, and there is a significant unmet need for fertility products and services. The maternal age is increasing. Patient awareness of, and access to, services is increasing. The number of fertility clinics is rising worldwide. 9 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Single parents by choice and LGBTQIA+ individuals are starting families. Improved product offerings such as donor activity and cryopreservation services are becoming available. Technology improvements are being developed for both male and female infertility challenges. Worldwide disposable income is increasing. COMPETITION The markets in which we participate are highly competitive and involve the continual search for technological and scientific innovations. Competitive factors in these markets include technological and scientific advances, product quality and availability, price, customer service including response time and effective communication of product information to clinicians and consumers, and manufacturing processes. Competitors may have greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing capacity. Both CooperVision and CooperSurgical compete predominantly on the basis of product quality and differentiation, technological benefits, price, service levels and reliability. CooperVision Competition CooperVision's largest competitors in the worldwide market and its primary competitors in the spherical, toric and multifocal lens categories of that market are Johnson Johnson Vision Care, Inc., Alcon Inc. and Bausch + Lomb. To a lesser extent, CooperVision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. We believe that in order to compete successfully in the numerous categories of the contact lens market, companies must offer differentiated products that are priced competitively and manufactured efficiently. CooperVision competes in its markets by producing high, medium and low-volume lenses made with a variety of materials for a broader range of market niches, as well as offering a wide range of lens parameters, leading to a higher rate of successful fitting for practitioners and better visual acuity for patients. Our ability to compete successfully with a full range of silicone hydrogel products is an important factor to achieving success in our business. We also compete based on our customer and professional services. CooperSurgical Competition CooperSurgical focuses on selected segments of the fertility and women's health care market with a diversified portfolio including fertility products and services, medical devices, cryostorage (such as cord blood and cord tissue storage) and contraception. CooperSurgical's strategy includes developing and acquiring new solutions to complement our current offerings. In the fertility market, CooperSurgical competes against Vitrolife Group, FujiFilm-Irvine Scientific, Hamilton Thorne, and Fairfax Cryobank and Fairfax EggBank. We also compete with fertility clinics offering their own services. Larger companies such as Johnson Johnson, Medtronic and Hologic have offerings that compete with our medical device products. In the stem cell storage field, we compete primarily with ViaCord, a division of Revvity, in the United States, as well as other smaller companies globally. With Paragard, we compete with manufacturers of hormonal IUDs including Bayer and AbbVie, Long Acting Reversible Contraceptives including Organon, and other forms of birth control. We are aware of a non-hormonal IUD under development, which may compete with Paragard in the future. Further, the continued consolidation of medical offices and fertility clinics may impact the competition for our products and services. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Company employs approximately 400 people in research and development. CooperVision's product development and clinical research is supported by internal and external specialists in lens design, formulation science, polymer chemistry, engineering, clinical trials, microbiology and biochemistry. CooperVision's research and development activities primarily include programs to develop new contact lens designs, myopia management, and manufacturing technologies, along with improving formulations and existing products. CooperSurgical conducts research and development in-house, and works with external specialists when necessary, in mechanical, electrical, biomedical and software engineering, as well as life sciences. CooperSurgical research and development activities are focused on innovating, improving, and advancing our products and services including, instruments, devices, consumables, digital services, and manufacturing technologies. GOVERNMENT REGULATION 10 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and a variety of regulatory agencies in other countries. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. These regulations govern, among other things, the design and development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, premarket clearance, approval or certification, post-market vigilance reporting, advertising and promotion, and sales and distribution of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with the applicable regulations, which are subject to established and new legislation and change, could result in enforcement action by the FDA, or other U.S. or foreign government agencies which may include, among other things, any of the following consequences: warning letters, civil penalties, refusal or withdrawal of approvals or certifications, license suspension or revocation, product recalls, operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production, and criminal prosecution. Regulation in the United States Medical Devices Most of our pr