Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 49 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 51 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 Item 6. Reserved 53 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 54 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 65 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B. Other Information 103 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 103 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 104 Item 11. Executive Compensation 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 104 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 104 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 104 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 105 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 109 3 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These include statements relating to plans, prospects, goals, strategies, future actions, events or performance and other statements which are other than statements of historical fact, including: statements regarding the expected impact of global macroeconomic conditions, the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine on our business; and statements regarding acquisitions (including the acquired companies' financial position, market position, product development and business strategy, expected cost synergies, expected timing and benefits of the transaction, difficulties in integrating entities or operations, as well as estimates of our and the acquired entities' future expenses, sales and earnings per share) that are forward-looking. In addition, all statements regarding anticipated growth in our net sales, anticipated effects of any product recalls, anticipated market conditions, planned product launches and expected results of operations and integration of any acquisition are forward-looking. To identify these statements, look for words like believes, outlook, probable, expects, may, will, should, could, seeks, intends, plans, estimates or anticipates and similar words or phrases. Forward-looking statements necessarily depend on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause our actual results and future actions to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements are those described in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including the Business, Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2022, as such Risk Factors may be updated in quarterly filings. We caution investors that forward-looking statements reflect our analysis only on their stated date. We disclaim any intent to update them except as required by law. 4 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Summary Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. In addition to the summary below, you should carefully review the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be subject to additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. Some of the more significant risks relating to our business include: Adverse changes in the global or regional general business, political and economic conditions, including the impact of continuing uncertainty and instability of certain countries, that could adversely affect our global markets, and the potential adverse economic impact and related uncertainty caused by these items, including but not limited to, the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation and escalating global trade barriers. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions and new governmental regulations on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, including but not limited to the potential impact on our sales, operations and supply chain. The impact of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the global response to this invasion on the global economy, European economy, financial markets, energy markets, currency rates and our ability to supply product to, or through, affected countries. Foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations including the risk of fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies or interest rates that would decrease our net sales and earnings. Our existing and future variable rate indebtedness and associated interest expense is impacted by rate increases, which could adversely affect our financial health or limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Changes in tax laws, examinations by tax authorities, and changes in our geographic composition of income. Acquisition-related adverse effects including the failure to successfully achieve the anticipated net sales, margins and earnings benefits of acquisitions, integration delays or costs and the requirement to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period, required regulatory approvals for an acquisition not being obtained or being delayed or subject to conditions that are not anticipated, adverse impacts of changes to accounting controls and reporting procedures, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations, increased leverage and lack of access to available financing (including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms). Compliance costs and potential liability in connection with U.S. and foreign laws and health care regulations pertaining to privacy and security of personal information, such as HIPAA and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) in the U.S. and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements in Europe, including but not limited to those resulting from data security breaches. A major disruption in the operations of our manufacturing, accounting and financial reporting, research and development, distribution facilities or raw material supply chain due to the COVID-19 pandemic, integration of acquisitions, man-made or natural disasters, cybersecurity incidents or other causes. A major disruption in the operations of our manufacturing, accounting and financial reporting, research and development or distribution facilities due to technological problems, including any related to our information systems maintenance, enhancements or new system deployments, integrations or upgrades. Market consolidation of large customers globally through mergers or acquisitions resulting in a larger proportion or concentration of our business being derived from fewer customers. Disruptions in supplies of raw materials, particularly components used to manufacture our silicone hydrogel lenses. New U.S. and foreign government laws and regulations, and changes in existing laws, regulations and enforcement guidance, which affect areas of our operations including, but not limited to, those affecting the health care industry, including the contact lens industry specifically and the medical device or pharmaceutical industries generally, including but not limited to the EU Medical Devices Regulation (MDR) and the EU In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Regulation (IVDR). Legal costs, insurance expenses, settlement costs and the risk of an adverse decision, prohibitive injunction or settlement related to product liability, patent infringement or other litigation. Limitations on sales following product introductions due to poor market acceptance. New competitors, product innovations or technologies, including but not limited to, technological advances by competitors, new products and patents attained by competitors, and competitors' expansion through acquisitions. Reduced sales, loss of customers and costs and expenses related to product recalls and warning letters. Failure to receive, or delays in receiving, regulatory approvals or certifications for products. Failure of our customers and end users to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for our products and services. The requirement to provide for a significant liability or to write off, or accelerate depreciation on, a significant asset, including goodwill, other intangible assets and idle manufacturing facilities and equipment. 5 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The success of our research and development activities and other start-up projects. Dilution to earnings per share from acquisitions or issuing stock. Impact and costs incurred from changes in accounting standards and policies. Risks related to environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues, including those related to climate change and sustainability. 6 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Item 1 . Business . The Cooper Companies, Inc. (Cooper, we or the Company), a Delaware corporation organized in 1980, is a global medical device company publicly traded on the NYSE (NYSE: COO). Cooper operates through two business units, CooperVision and CooperSurgical. CooperVision is a global manufacturer providing products for contact lens wearers. CooperVision develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of single-use, two-week and monthly contact lenses, featuring advanced materials and optics. CooperVision designs its products to solve vision challenges such as astigmatism, presbyopia and myopia; with a broad collection of spherical, toric and multifocal contact lenses. CooperVision offers contact lenses in a variety of materials including silicone hydrogel Aquaform technology and phosphorylcholine technology (PC) Technology . CooperVision also manufactures and markets myopia management and specialty eyecare products which it gained through a series of orthokeratology (ortho-k) and scleral lens acquisitions. In November 2019, CooperVision's internally developed MiSight 1 day lens became first and only approved product by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for myopia control and is indicated to slow the progression of myopia in children when treatment is initiated between the ages of 8-12. The MiSight 1 day lens became available in the U.S. in fiscal 2020 and in August 2021, CooperVision received Chinese National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approval for its MiSight 1 day lens for use in China. CooperVision s major manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Belgium, Costa Rica, Hungary, Puerto Rico, the UK and the U.S., with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. CooperSurgical's business competes in the general health care market with a focus on advancing the health of women, babies and families through a diversified portfolio of products and services. Our fertility portfolio encompasses medical device coverage of the in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle, egg and sperm donation, and cryopreservation. Our office and surgical platform encompasses more than 600 clinically-relevant medical devices used in gynecology and obstetrics, including contraception and labor delivery, as well as cord blood and cord tissue storage services. CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring companies, products and services that complement its business model. We categorize CooperSurgical product sales based on the point of health care delivery, which includes products used in medical office and surgical procedures, primarily by Obstetricians/Gynecologists (OB/GYN); and fertility products/equipment and genetic testing services used primarily in fertility clinics and laboratories. CooperSurgical's major manufacturing, cryostorage and distribution facilities are located in Costa Rica, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States, with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. CooperVision and CooperSurgical each operate in highly competitive environments. Both of Cooper's businesses compete predominantly on the bases of product quality and differentiation, technological benefits, price, service levels and reliability. COOPERVISION CooperVision competes in the worldwide soft contact lens market and services three primary regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific. The contact lens market has two major product categories: Spherical lenses including lenses that correct near- and farsightedness uncomplicated by more complex visual defects. Toric and multifocal lenses including lenses that, in addition to correcting near- and farsightedness, address more complex visual defects such as astigmatism, myopia and presbyopia by adding optical properties of cylinder and axis, which correct for irregularities in the shape of the cornea. Myopia management contact lenses slow the progression of myopia in children 8 to 12 years of age at initiation of the treatment. In order to achieve comfortable and healthy contact lens wear, products are sold with recommended replacement schedules, often defined as modalities, with the primary modalities being single-use lenses and frequent replacement (FRP) lenses, which are designed for two-week and monthly replacement. CooperVision offers spherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens products in most modalities. We believe that in order to compete successfully in the numerous categories of the contact lens market, companies must offer differentiated products that are priced competitively and manufactured efficiently. CooperVision uses different manufacturing processes, primarily cast molding, to produce its lenses. We believe this allows CooperVision to compete in its markets by: Producing high, medium and low volumes of lenses made with a variety of materials for a broader range of market niches: single-use, two-week and monthly disposable sphere, toric and multifocal lenses, custom toric lenses for patients with a high degree of astigmatism, and myopia management contact lenses. Offering a wide range of lens parameters, leading to a higher rate of successful fitting for practitioners and better visual acuity for patients. 7 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The market for spherical lenses is growing with the addition of new value-added products, such as spherical lenses to alleviate dry eye symptoms, reduce eye fatigue from use of digital devices and add aspherical optical properties and/or higher oxygen permeable lenses such as silicone hydrogels, and myopia management contact lenses for 8 to 12 years (age-appropriate) children. Sales of contact lenses utilizing silicone hydrogel materials continue to grow. Silicone hydrogel materials supply a higher level of oxygen to the cornea, as measured by the transmissibility of oxygen through a given thickness of material, or dk/t, than traditional hydrogel lenses. We believe our ability to compete successfully with a full range of silicone hydrogel products is an important factor to achieving success in our business. Silicone hydrogel lenses represent a significant portion of CooperVision's contact lens sales and our Biofinity brand is CooperVision's leading product line in terms of sales. Under the Biofinity brand, CooperVision markets monthly silicone hydrogel spherical (including Biofinity Energys ), toric, extended range toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lens products. CooperVision markets single-use silicone hydrogel lenses with a complete line of spherical, toric, extended range toric and multifocal lenses under our clariti 1 day brand and single-use silicone hydrogel spherical, toric and multifocal lenses under our MyDay brand. We also compete in the traditional single-use hydrogel product segment with branded lenses including our Proclear and Biomedics 1 day lenses. We believe the global market for single-use contact lenses will continue to grow and that our competitive silicone hydrogel and traditional hydrogel product offerings represent an opportunity for our business. In addition to its silicone hydrogel product offerings, CooperVision competes in the contact lens market with other traditional hydrogel products. CooperVision focuses on supporting the growth of all customers including key accounts (optical chains, global retailers, certain buying groups and mass merchandisers) by investing in selling, promotional and advertising activities. Further, we are increasing investment in our distribution and packaging capabilities to support the growth of our business and to continue providing quality service with our industry leading SKU range and customized offerings. CooperVision believes that myopia management opens up an attractive new market for contact lenses. With MiSight, CooperVision offers the only FDA approved 1 and first Chinese NMPA approved product to control the progression of myopia in age-appropriate children. CooperVision is investing to create this new market by educating eye care practitioners, patients and their families which increases awareness. CooperVision is focused on greater worldwide market penetration of recently introduced products, and we continue to expand our presence in existing and emerging markets, both organically and through acquisitions. In fiscal 2022, CooperVision acquired a privately-held Denmark-based ortho-k contact lens distributor. In fiscal 2021, CooperVision acquired a privately-held medical device company and a privately-held UK contact lenses manufacturer. These acquisitions expanded CooperVision s specialty eye care portfolio and its leadership in addressing the increasing severity and prevalence of myopia. 1 Indications for use of MiSight 1 day (omafilcon A) soft (hydrophilic) contact lenses for daily wear are indicated for the correction of myopic ametropia and for slowing the progression of myopia in children with non-diseased eyes, who at the initiation of treatment are 8-12 years of age and have a refraction of -0.75 to -4.00 diopters (spherical equivalent) with 0.75 diopters of astigmatism. The lens is to be discarded after each removal. 8 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Contact Lens Product Sales Single-use spheres This includes Biomedics 1 day, clariti 1 day, MyDay, MiSight and Proclear 1 day Toric This includes Avaira Vitality toric, Biomedics toric, Biofinity toric, clariti 1 day toric, MyDay toric and Proclear toric Multifocal This includes Biofinity multifocal, Biofinity toric multifocal, clariti 1 day multifocal, MyDay multifocal and Proclear 1 day multifocal Non single-use sphere, other This includes our Avaira Vitality spheres, frequent replacement product (FRP) lens portfolio (Biofinity spheres, Biofinity Energys, Biomedics, Proclear spheres, clariti spheres), ortho-k, scleral and custom lenses, contact lens solutions and other CooperVision Competition The contact lens market is highly competitive. CooperVision's largest competitors in the worldwide market and its primary competitors in the spherical, toric and multifocal lens categories of that market are Johnson Johnson Vision Care, Inc., Alcon Inc. and Bausch Health Companies Inc. Certain of CooperVision's competitors may have greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes. CooperVision seeks to offer a high level of customer service through its direct sales organizations around the world and through telephone sales and technical service representatives who consult with eye care professionals about the use of our lens products. CooperVision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and with refractive surgical procedures that correct visual defects including laser vision correction. CooperVision believes that laser vision correction is not a significant threat to its sales of contact lenses based on the growth of the contact lens market over the past decade. CooperVision competes in the silicone hydrogel segment of the market with its following products: clariti 1 day brand of single-use sphere, toric and multifocal lenses; MyDay single-use spherical, toric and multifocal lenses; Biofinity monthly spherical, toric, multifocal and toric multifocal lenses and Avaira Vitality two-week spherical and toric lenses. CooperVision believes the clariti 1 day and MyDay brands of single-use contact lenses provide the broadest product portfolio in the single-use silicone hydrogel market. CooperVision offers both branded and private label/store brand options in contact lenses. Its private label option is frequently offered as part of a larger customized solution for its customers. It also competes in the specialty contact lens space with its FDA approved MiSight 1 day contact lens for myopia management in age-appropriate children as well as ortho-k and scleral lenses. In addition to a broad offering of silicone hydrogel and specialty contact lenses, CooperVision competes with different manufacturing processes which allow it to produce a broad range of spheres, toric and multifocal lens parameters, which we believe provides wide choices for patient and practitioner and a high level of visual acuity. We also compete based on our customer and professional services. CooperVision believes that there are opportunities for contact lenses to gain market share, particularly in markets where the penetration of contact lenses in the vision correction market is low. 9 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES COOPERSURGICAL CooperSurgical offers a broad array of products and services focused on advancing the health of women, babies and families through a diversified portfolio of products and services including medical devices, fertility, genomics, diagnostics, cryostorage, contraception and healthcare technology services (such as cord blood and cord tissue storage and genomic testing). We offer quality products, innovative technologies and superior services to health care professionals and patients worldwide. CooperSurgical collaborates with health care professionals to identify products and new technologies from disposable products to diagnostic tests to sophisticated instruments and equipment, to bring new products to market. The result is a broad portfolio of products and services that are intended to aid in the delivery of improved clinical outcomes for families and that health care professionals use routinely in the diagnosis and treatment of a wide spectrum of women's health and reproductive issues. A focus area for CooperSurgical is key accounts, which include large group practices, integrated delivery networks and certain buying groups within the office/surgical business and fertility clinic networks within the fertility business. We believe our portfolio of offerings and focus on service, quality and clinical education will support the accelerated growth of our business in these key account groups. Since its inception in 1990, CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring products and companies that complement its business model. In fiscal 2022, CooperSurgical acquired both a private cryopreservation services company and Generate Life Sciences (Generate), a privately-held leading provider of donor egg and sperm for fertility treatments, fertility cryopreservation services and newborn stem cell storage (cord blood cord tissue). In fiscal 2021, CooperSurgical acquired three privately-held medical device companies and one privately-held IVF cryostorage software solutions company. We intend to continue investing in CooperSurgical's business with the goal of expanding our integrated solutions model within the areas of family health, fertility and diagnostics. In April 2022, CooperSurgical entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire Cook Medical's Reproductive Health business, a manufacturer of minimally invasive medical devices focused on the fertility, obstetrics and gynecology markets. The aggregate consideration is $875.0 million in cash, with $675.0 million payable at the closing and the remaining $200.0 million payable in $50.0 million installments following each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the closing. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, such as receipt of required regulatory approvals. Market for Women's and Family Health Care CooperSurgical participates in the market for women's and family health care with its diversified product lines in three major categories based on the point of health care delivery: hospitals and surgical centers, OB/GYN medical offices and fertility clinics. In recent years, including with the acquisition of Generate in fiscal 2022, CooperSurgical s business increasingly includes marketing and selling to end consumers of healthcare technology and reproductive planning products and services. CooperSurgical expects patient visits to women s health provider offices in the U.S. to increase over the next decade. From adolescent care to geriatrics, there is increasing global awareness of women s health issues. During the reproductive years, fertility awareness and family planning and healthcare are key areas of focus. The attention in maternity care to improving access to safe, effective, and equitable obstetrical care continues. As we expect an increase in the population of women over the age of 65, office visits focused around abnormal bleeding, incontinence and menopause will likely increase. Another trend in the market for women's health care includes the continued migration of OB/GYN health care professionals away from private practice ownership and toward aligning with group practices or employment with hospitals and health care systems. This overall trend of consolidation of healthcare systems includes the increasing influence of supply chain controls, such as value analysis committees, on product evaluation and procurement across these care-delivery systems. CooperSurgical believes that the market factors that are driving this trend will continue. We believe our broad product portfolio can be a benefit in this changing environment as health systems look to standardize and consolidate vendors. Recent trends of patient-centered, value-based care include the development of more cost-effective health care delivery models, including moving treatment out of hospitals and surgery centers and into the office setting without compromising care. We expect to see continued changes in reimbursement and clinical best practices as payment models and policies continue to evolve. 10 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The OB/GYN market encompasses the following significant points of healthcare delivery: Routine office visits: annual well-women checkups, preventative cancer screening and contraception. Evaluation and management (E/M) office visits: assessment of menstrual disorders, pelvic infections, urinary incontinence, abnormal Pap smears, fertility concerns, pregnancy and menopause. Approximately a third of gynecology office visits are related to abnormal uterine bleeding. Trends in the OB/GYN market include: Office-based and outpatient procedures are increasing given high patient satisfaction, reduction of health system cost and comparative clinical outcomes. Hysterectomy and cesarean section remain common hospital surgical interventions in women worldwide. Pregnancy and childbirth complications are on the rise. The obstetrician is a key contributor to stem cell storage, facilitating the collection of cord blood and cord tissue following delivery in most markets. Initial evaluation and treatments for infertility, such as uterine assessment, ovulatory medications and intrauterine insemination (IUI), begin with the OB/GYN and then transition to fertility clinics. With respect to fertility clinics, CooperSurgical expects growth in fertility treatments as: Infertility rates are increasing globally, and there is a significant unmet need for fertility services. Patient awareness of and access to services are increasing at a rapid pace. The number of fertility clinics is rising worldwide. The fertility market is fueled by dynamics such as increasing maternal age, single parents by choice, and LGBTQ+ identifying individuals starting families. Improved product offerings such as donor activity and cryopreservation services Technology improvements for both male and female infertility challenges Greater worldwide disposable income Women's and Family Health Care Product Sales 11 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Office/Surgical This includes Endosee endometrial imaging products, Fetal Pillow cephalic elevation devices for use in Cesarean sections, illuminated speculum products, Lone Star retractor systems, loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) products, Mara water ablation systems, newborn stem cell storage, PARAGARD contraceptive IUDs, point-of-care products and uterine positioning products. Fertility