Item 1. Business 4 Item X. Executive Officers of the Registrant 19 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40 Item 2. Properties 41 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 48 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 76 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 120 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 120 Item 9B. Other Information 122 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 123 Item 11. Executive Compensation 123 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 123 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 123 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 123 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 124 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 Signatures 129 2 Table of Contents Note About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about FLEETCOR s beliefs, expectations and future performance, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, seek, project or expect, may, will, would, could or should, the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance, and you should not place undue reliance on such statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events. Forward-looking statements are subject to many uncertainties and other variable circumstances, including those discussed in this report in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, many of which are outside of our control, that could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements may not be realized due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: the impact of macroeconomic conditions and whether expected trends, including in retail fuel prices, fuel price spreads, and fuel transaction patterns, develop as anticipated; our ability to successfully execute our strategic plan, manage our growth and achieve our performance targets; our ability to attract new and retain existing partners, fuel merchants, and lodging providers, their promotion and support of our products, and their financial performance; the failure of management assumptions and estimates, as well as differences in, and changes to, economic, market, interest rate, interchange fees, foreign exchange rates, and credit conditions, including changes in borrowers credit risks and payment behaviors; the risk of higher borrowing costs and adverse financial market conditions impacting our funding and liquidity, and any reduction in our credit ratings; our ability to successfully manage our credit risks and the sufficiency of our allowance for possible loan losses; our ability to securitize our loan receivables; the occurrence of fraudulent activity, data breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents that may compromise our systems or customers information; any disruptions in the operations of our computer systems and data centers; the international operational and political risks and compliance and regulatory risks and costs associated with international operations; our ability to develop and implement new technology, products, and services; any alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of others and our ability to protect our intellectual property; the regulation, supervision, and examination of our business by foreign and domestic governmental authorities, as well as litigation and regulatory actions, including the lawsuit recently filed by the FTC; the impact of regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection; use of third-party vendors and ongoing third-party business relationships; and failure to comply with anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws; changes in our senior management team and our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel consistent with our strategic plan; tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions and/or interpretations, and state sales tax rules and regulations; the risks of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, including, without limitation, the related time and costs of implementing such transactions, integrating operations as part of these transactions and possible failures to achieve expected gains, revenue growth and/or expense savings from such transactions; and the other factors and information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC under the Exchange Act and Securities Act. See Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any such statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of such statements to reflect future events or developments. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General FLEETCOR is a leading global business payment solutions company that simplifies the way businesses manage and pay their expenses. The FLEETCOR portfolio of brands help companies automate, secure, digitize and control payments on behalf of their employees and suppliers. We serve businesses, partners, merchants and consumer and payment networks in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. FLEETCOR s predecessor company was organized in the United States in 1986, and FLEETCOR had its initial public offering in 2010 (NYSE: FLT). FLEETCOR has two reportable segments, North America and International. We report these two segments as they reflect how we organize and manage our employees around the world, manage operating performance, contemplate the differing regulatory environments in North America versus other geographies, and help us isolate the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on our financial results. Our payment solutions provide our customers with a payment method designed to be superior to and more robust and effective than what they use currently, whether they use a competitor s product or another alternative method such as cash or check. Our solutions are comprised of payment products, networks and associated services. We group our payment solutions into five primary categories: Fuel, Lodging, Tolls, Corporate Payments and Gift. Additionally, we provide other complementary payment products including fleet maintenance, employee benefits and long haul transportation-related services. Each category is unique in its focus, customer base and target markets, but they also share a number of characteristics: customers are primarily businesses, have recurring revenue models, have specialized networks which create barriers to entry, have high EBITDA margins, and have similar selling systems. Our payment solutions are used in more than 100 countries around the world, with our primary geographies being the U.S., Brazil and the United Kingdom, which combined accounted for approximately 87% of our revenue in 2019. FLEETCOR s payment products generally function like a charge card, prepaid card, one-time use virtual card, and electronic RFID (radio-frequency identification), etc. While the actual payment mechanisms vary from category to category, they are structured to afford control and reporting to the end customer. FLEETCOR uses both proprietary and third-party networks to deliver our payment solutions. FLEETCOR owns and operates proprietary networks with well-established brands throughout the world, bringing incremental sales and loyalty to affiliated merchants. Third-party networks are used to broaden payment product acceptance and use. FLEETCOR capitalizes on its products specialization with sales and marketing efforts by deploying product-dedicated sales forces to target specific customer segments. We market our products directly through multiple sales channels, including field sales, telesales and digital marketing, and indirectly through our partners, which include major oil companies, leasing companies, petroleum marketers, value-added resellers (VARs) and referral partners. We believe that our size and scale, product breadth and specialization, geographic reach, proprietary networks, robust distribution capabilities and advanced technology contribute to our industry leading position. Products and services We offer specialized payment solutions predominately for commercial businesses. Our payment solutions are intended to provide our customers with a payment method superior to that which they formerly used, whether they used a competitor s product or another alternative method such as cash or check. Our solutions are comprised of payment products, networks and associated services. Our solutions tend to be specialized for specific spend categories, such as fuel or lodging, and/or specific customer segments, such as long haul transportation. This specialization is manifested in the purchase controls, merchant network, and reporting applicable to the spend category or customer segment. For example, a fuel card could provide controls on the type of fuel purchased, be accepted only at gas stations for fuel purchases, and provide fuel usage and efficiency reports for a customer s fleet of vehicles. The combination of these specialized attributes allows our payment products to compete well against less specialized products such as cash or general purpose credit cards when it comes to controlling purchases within certain spend categories. 4 Table of Contents Fuel payment product line Our fuel payment product line is our largest product category, representing approximately 44% of our revenue in 2019. FLEETCOR offers fuel payment solutions to businesses and government entities who operate vehicle fleets, as well as to major oil companies, leasing companies and fuel marketers. Our fuel payment products are most often in the form of plastic cards, but also include other forms such as electronic RFID tags, mobile apps and paper vouchers. While predominately used to purchase fuel, many of our fuel payment products have additional purchasing capabilities to allow customers to purchase non-fuel items such as oil, vehicle maintenance supplies and services and building supplies. Our fuel payment products, excluding paper vouchers, provide customers with tools and information to control their fuel and other fleet-related operating costs. Our proprietary processing and card management systems provide customers with customizable user-level controls, detailed transaction reporting, programmable alerts, configurable networks, contracted fuel price validation and audit, and vehicle efficiency analysis. Our customers can use these data, controls and tools to combat fraud and employee misuse, streamline expense administration and potentially lower their vehicle fleets operating costs. The combination of these specialized attributes allows our fuel payment products to compete well against less specialized products such as cash or general purpose credit cards when it comes to controlling fuel purchases. For major oil companies, leasing companies and petroleum marketers, we provide program management services, which allow these partners to outsource the sales, marketing, credit, service, and system operations of their branded fuel card portfolios. Depending on our partners needs and internal capabilities, we provide our products and services in a variety of combinations ranging from a comprehensive end-to-end solution (encompassing issuing, processing and network services) to limited back office processing services. Our fuel payment product partners include British Petroleum (BP), its subsidiary Arco, Shell, Speedway, and Casey's and over 700 fuel marketers of all sizes. While we refer to companies with whom we have strategic relationships as partners, our legal relationships with these companies are contractual, and do not constitute legal partnerships. Our contracts with our major oil company partners typically have initial terms of five to ten years with current remaining terms ranging from one to seven years. We use both proprietary and third-party networks to deliver our fuel payment solutions, including the following examples: North America proprietary networks for fuel payment products Fuelman network our primary proprietary fleet card network in the U.S. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 10,400 individual merchants, providing the Fuelman network with approximately 55,000 fueling sites and approximately 25,000 maintenance sites across the country. Comdata network our network of truck stops and fuel merchants for the over-the-road trucking industry. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms at over 8,600 truck stops and fuel merchants across the U.S. and Canada. Commercial Fueling Network (CFN) our members only fueling network in the U.S. and Canada composed of approximately 2,600 fueling sites owned by CFN members themselves. The majority of these fueling sites are unattended cardlock facilities located in commercial and industrial areas. Pacific Pride Fueling network our "franchise" fueling network in the U.S. composed of approximately 1,100 fueling sites owned by more than 220 franchisees. The majority of these fueling sites are unattended cardlock facilities located in commercial and industrial areas. International proprietary networks for fuel payment products Allstar network our proprietary fleet card network in the U.K. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with approximately 2,100 individual merchants, providing this network with approximately 7,300 fueling sites. Keyfuels network our proprietary fleet card network in the U.K. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with more than 500 individual merchants, providing the Keyfuels network with approximately 3,000 fueling sites. CCS network our primary proprietary fleet card network in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with several major oil companies on a brand-wide basis, including MOL, Benzina, OMV, Slovnaft and Shell, and with approximately 1,200 other merchants, providing the CCS network at over 2,800 fueling sites and 700 other sites accepting our cards. 5 Table of Contents Petrol Plus Region (PPR) network our primary proprietary fleet card network in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 600 individual merchants, providing the PPR network with approximately 13,300 fueling sites across the region. Efectivale network our proprietary fuel card and voucher network in Mexico. We have negotiated acceptance and settlement terms individual merchants, providing the network with over 8,300 fueling sites. CTF network our proprietary fuel and fleet controls solutions in Brazil, composed of over 23,000 highway and urban fueling sites through our partners, BR Distribuidora (Petrobas) and Ipiranga Distribuidora. Travelcard network our proprietary fuel card network in the Netherlands. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 1,500 individual merchants, providing this network over 7,600 fueling sites. Fleet Card network our proprietary fuel card network in Australia. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with approximately 6,000 individual merchants, providing this network with over 90% of fuel sites across Australia. CardSmart network our proprietary fuel card network in New Zealand. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with approximately 1,200 individual merchants, providing this network with approximately 95% of the fuel sites across New Zealand. Third-Party networks for fuel payments products In addition to our proprietary closed-loop networks, we also utilize various third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services. Examples of these networks include: Mastercard network In the U.S. and Canada, we issue co-branded Mastercard products, which are accepted at over 176,000 fuel sites and 398,000 maintenance locations. These Mastercard products have additional purchasing capabilities which, when enabled, allow the cards to be accepted at approximately 10.9 million locations throughout the U.S. and Canada. Visa network In the U.K., we issue products that utilize the Visa payment network, which includes approximately 8,400 fuel sites and approximately 1,700 maintenance locations. These Visa products have additional purchasing capabilities which, when enabled, allow the cards to be accepted throughout the Visa network. Major oil and fuel marketer networks The proprietary networks of branded locations owned by our major oil and fuel marketer partners in both North America and internationally are generally utilized to support the proprietary, branded card programs of these partners. UTA network UNION TANK Eckstein GmbH Co. KG (UTA) operates a network of over 61,000 points of acceptance in 40 European countries, including more than 49,000 fueling sites. The UTA network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries. DKV network DKV operates a network of over 100,000 fleet card-accepting locations across more than 42 countries throughout Europe. The DKV network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries. Carnet network A national debit network in Mexico, which includes approximately 12,700 fueling sites across the country. Good Card network In Brazil, we issue co-branded Good Card products, which are accepted at over 23,000 fuel sites. We distribute our fuel payment solutions through direct and indirect channels to businesses of all sizes. This includes businesses with small- to medium-sized fleets, which we believe represent an attractive segment of the global commercial fleet market given their relatively high use of less efficient payment products, such as cash and general purpose credit cards. We serve customers across numerous industry verticals and particularly those verticals with significant vehicle fueling needs such as trucking, construction, manufacturing, energy, and consumer products distribution. Our indirect channel includes our partners, such as major oil companies, leasing companies and fuel marketers. We generally provide our fuel payments solutions to our partners who offer our services under their own brands on a white-label basis. In turn, we leverage our partners brands, retail outlets, websites, and sales forces to help distribute our fuel payment products. 6 Table of Contents In Brazil, we have designed proprietary equipment which, when installed at the fueling site and on the vehicle and combined with our processing system, significantly reduces the likelihood of unauthorized and fraudulent transactions. We offer this product to over-the-road trucking fleets, shipping fleets and other operators of heavily industrialized equipment, including sea-going vessels, mining equipment, agricultural equipment, and locomotives. We generally co-brand this product with BR Distribuidora (Petrobas) or Ipiranga Distribuidora, depending on which fuel distributor provides fuel to our fleet clients via its retail and wholesale distribution operations. With regard to our fuel payment products, we compete with independent fuel card issuers, major oil companies and petroleum marketers. Excluding major oil companies, our most significant competitors in this product category include WEX, U.S. Bank Voyager Fleet Systems, World Fuel Services, Edenred, Sodexo, Alelo, DKV, and Radius Payment Solutions. Long haul transportation services In addition to, and often in conjunction with our fuel payment product, we provide trucking companies in North America with various products and services specifically relevant to their industry, including road tax compliance analysis and reporting, permit procurement, and cash movement and disbursement. We compete with several companies in providing these products and services, including EFS (WEX), Keller, and RTS Financial. Lodging payment product line We offer lodging payment solutions to businesses in North America that have employees who travel overnight for work purposes, and to airlines globally to accommodate both their traveling crews and distressed passengers whose flights have been canceled. We offer card-based lodging payment products for individual business travelers and non-card based solutions for crews and distressed passengers. Our solutions can be customized to meet the specific needs of our customers, including access to deeply discounted hotel networks and customer-specific rate negotiation, the ability to customize the network to fit customers specific travel needs and policies, enhanced controls and reporting, and audit and tax management services. Our lodging payment products operate on our proprietary CLC, CLS and Travelliance lodging networks, which include over 33,900 hotels across 88 countries. We also can secure hotel rooms outside our proprietary networks if required by our customers. The size, scale and nature of our lodging customer base enable us to negotiate lodging nightly rates lower than the rates most companies could negotiate directly and far below the rates available to the general public. Our customers can secure room nights with our solutions through our website or mobile app, by phone or email, or by walking into participating lodging properties and presenting their FLEETCOR lodging payment product credentials. FLEETCOR has developed data management and payment processing systems to manage client billings and reports, which combined with our discounted hotel network, provide clients with savings and increased visibility into their lodging costs. The integration of our processing systems with airline logistics and crew management systems also enables us to deliver enhanced services to that industry vertical. We distribute our lodging payment solutions mostly through direct channels to businesses of all sizes and serve customers across a wide range of industries, including airlines, trucking, railroads, construction, telecom, energy, food service, retail distribution, and emergency response services such as FEMA and the American Red Cross. We provide our custom lodging solutions to large customers and airlines under contracts. Our lodging payment solutions compete with similar offerings from Egencia (Expedia), hotelengine.com, and in-house travel departments of large corporations and airlines. Toll payment product line In Brazil, we offer an electronic toll payments product to businesses and consumers in the form of RFID tags affixed to vehicles windshields. Our electronic toll payments product operates on our proprietary Sem Parar network, which processed transactions for more than 5 million customers on 99% of the toll roads across Brazil. Our electronic tags may also be used to purchase parking, fuel and meals at affiliated merchant locations. Electronic tolling provides convenience and faster travel and more convenience for customers, while also reducing manual labor and cash handling at merchants toll booths and parking garages. At gas stations and drive through restaurants, payment via electronic tags is faster, safer and more secure for customers, which in turn increases loyalty and throughput for merchants. Beyond these benefits, our electronic toll payment product also provides commercial customers with driver routing controls and fare auditing, mostly in the form of vehicle type and axle count configuration. 7 Table of Contents For certain commercial customers, we also offer prepaid paper vouchers as a means of payment on toll roads. We provide these vouchers to companies who contract with third-party drivers who do not have an electronic tag in their vehicles and for whom the companies are legally obligated to prepay tolls. Our electronic and paper toll vale-pedagio solutions are accepted for payment within our proprietary toll network that covers approximately 99% of national roads in Brazil. We distribute our toll payment products through direct and indirect channels to customers of all sizes and across a broad number of industry verticals. To reach commercial customers, we utilize the same set of direct channels as our other commercially-focused product lines including field sales, telesales and digital marketing. To reach consumers, we also place proprietary manned kiosks and unmanned vending machines in areas with high consumer foot traffic, such as shopping malls. Our indirect channel includes a range of resellers and referral partners, including retail establishments with high consumer foot traffic such as grocery stores, pharmacies and gas stations. We provide our toll payment product to these partners under our brand and, in select cases, under the partner s brand. Our electronic toll payment product competes with similar offerings such as Move Mais, ConectCar (Banco Ita and Ipiranga), Veloe (Alelo), Repom (Edenred), and Visa Vale (Banco Bradesco). Corporate payments product line We offer a broad suite of corporate payments solutions with vertical-specific applications, which enable our customers to manage and control electronic payments across their enterprise, optimize corporate spending and offer innovative services that increase employee efficiency and customer loyalty. Our primary corporate payments products include virtual cards, purchasing cards, travel entertainment (T E) cards, payroll cards and cross-border payment facilitation. These products are predominately marketed in North America, with cross-border payments also offered in the United Kingdom and Australia. This collection of comprehensive solutions positions us to enable automation and savings across a user s entire accounts payables (A/P) process, including both domestic and international payables. A virtual card provides a single-use card number for a specific amount within a defined timeframe and serves as a highly-effective replacement for check payments. Virtual cards provide enhanced security relative to checks while reducing payment costs for our customers. Full remittance data accompanies each virtual card payment, providing significant reconciliation advantages to ACH payments. We have integrated our virtual card offering into most leading ERP systems, providing a seamless experience for accounts payable personnel to select our virtual card as the payment mechanism of choice. FLEETCOR s virtual card product operates on the Mastercard payment network. However, merchants affiliated to the MasterCard network are not obligated to accept virtual cards as a form of payment. As such, merchants must be enrolled into our proprietary vendor network to accept our virtual card product. We have built a proprietary network of approximately 800,000 merchants that accept our virtual card payments. This network is managed with proprietary technology that allows us to continuously expand virtual card acceptance and optimize the amount of virtual card spend we can capture. This network, coupled with a best-in-class, in-house vendor enrollment service, is a major competitive advantage. Our purchasing and T E cards operate on the Mastercard payment network and are accepted at approximately 10.9 million locations throughout the United States and Canada. These card products are generally sold in conjunction with our virtual card offering to augment our customers purchasing capabilities. FLEETCOR also provides full A/P outsourcing services for customers who send us their entire A/P file and allow us to execute payments across all modalities, including the aforementioned products as well as ACH, wires and checks. We also provide expense management software, which combines and leverages transaction data captured from our virtual, purchasing and T E card products to help our customers analyze and control their corporate spending. Our virtual, purchasing and T E card products compete with similar offerings from large financial institutions such as Bank of America, Citibank, J.P. Morgan Chase, PNC Bank, U.S. Bank, Wells Fargo and American Express. FLEETCOR offers a payroll card product in the form of a reloadable stored value card, which operates on the Mastercard payment network and the All Point ATM network. These cards are distributed to our customers employees and are funded by our customers with their employees earned wages. As cardholders, the employees may present the payroll card as a form of payment for personal purchases, transfer funds to their bank account or withdraw funds from participating ATMs. Our payroll card product competes with similar offerings from First Data Corporation, Fidelity National Information Services, Global Cash Card, Green Dot Financial, Total System Services, Automatic Data Processing, Paychex and Heartland Payment Systems. 8 Table of Contents FLEETCOR s cross-border payment services are offered predomina