Item 1. Business 5 Item X. Executive Officers of the Registrant 16 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 31 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 105 Item 9B. Other Information 109 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 109 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 110 Item 11. Executive Compensation 110 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 110 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 110 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 110 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 111 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 Signatures 117 2 Table of Contents Note About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about FLEETCOR s beliefs, expectations and future performance, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, plan, seek, project or expect, may, will, would, could or should, the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of performance, and you should not place undue reliance on such statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events. Forward-looking statements are subject to many uncertainties and other variable circumstances, including those discussed in this report in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, many of which are outside of our control, that could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements may not be realized due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: the impact of macroeconomic conditions, including any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future, and whether expected trends, including retail fuel prices, fuel price spreads, fuel transaction patterns, electric vehicle, and retail lodging price trends develop as anticipated and we are able to develop successful strategies in light of these trends; our ability to successfully execute our strategic plan, manage our growth and achieve our performance targets; our ability to attract new and retain existing partners, merchants, and providers, their promotion and support of our products, and their financial performance; the failure of management assumptions and estimates, as well as differences in, and changes to, economic, market, interest rate, interchange fees, foreign exchange rates, and credit conditions, including changes in borrowers credit risks and payment behaviors; the risk of higher borrowing costs and adverse financial market conditions impacting our funding and liquidity, and any reduction in our credit ratings; our ability to successfully manage our credit risks and the sufficiency of our allowance for expected credit losses; our ability to securitize our trade receivables; the occurrence of fraudulent activity, data breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents that may compromise our systems or customers information; any disruptions in the operations of our computer systems and data centers; the international operational and political risks and compliance and regulatory risks and costs associated with international operations; the impact of international conflicts, including between Russia and Ukraine, as well as within the Middle East, on the global economy or our business and operations; our ability to develop and implement new technology, products, and services; any alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of others and our ability to protect our intellectual property; the regulation, supervision, and examination of our business by foreign and domestic governmental authorities, as well as litigation and regulatory actions, including the lawsuit filed by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC); the impact of regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection; use of third-party vendors and ongoing third-party business relationships; and failure to comply with anti-money laundering (AML) and anti-terrorism financing laws; changes in our senior management team and our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel consistent with our strategic plan; tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions and/or interpretations, and state sales tax rules and regulations; the risks of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, including, without limitation, the related time and costs of implementing such transactions, integrating operations as part of these transactions and possible failures to achieve expected gains, revenue growth and/or expense savings from such transactions; our ability to remediate material weaknesses and the ongoing effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting; our restatement of prior quarterly financial statements may affect investor confidence and raise reputational issues and may subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, including increased professional costs and the increased possibility of legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries; and the other factors and information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the SEC under the Exchange Act and Securities Act. See Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any such statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any of such statements to reflect future events or developments. 3 Table of Contents EXPLANATORY NOTE This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 ( Form 10-K ) includes the restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2023, June 30, 2023 and September 30, 2023 (the Restated Periods ). The Audit Committee of the Company s Board of Directors, in consultation with the Company's management, concluded that the Company s previously issued condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures for the Restated Periods should no longer be relied upon related to the specific errors contained in such interim financial statements. As disclosed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K, we are restating the Restated Periods to correct errors pertaining only to our balance sheets (and the related effects on the statements of cash flows) related to (1) the recognition of certain cash balances as restricted cash and customer deposits held in custodial accounts for the benefit of (FBO) customers entered into in the first quarter of 2023 based on the Company's determination that it exercises control over such funds and (2) a correction to the Company's accounts receivable and accounts payable balances related to an incorrect classification of certain unbilled accounts receivable balances. As disclosed in Item 9A, as of December 31, 2023, management has determined that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting due to the existence of certain material weaknesses. Management also concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2023 due to the existence of the material weaknesses. For additional information, see Item 9A of this Form 10-K. We have not filed and do not intend to file amendments to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the Restated Periods. 2023 comparative amounts presented in our 2024 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q will be changed retrospectively to reflect the restatement. Accordingly, investors should rely only on the financial information and other disclosures regarding the Restated Periods in this Form 10-K or in future filings with the SEC (as applicable), and not on any previously issued or filed reports, earnings releases or similar communications relating to the Restated Periods. The impact of the restatement on the Restated Periods is described in Note 20 to our audited financial statements included in this Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction FLEETCOR is a global payments company that helps businesses and consumers better manager their expenses. FLEETCOR's suite of modern payment solutions help customers better manage vehicle-related expenses (e.g. fueling, tolls and parking), lodging expenses (e.g. hotel bookings) and corporate payments (e.g. domestic and international vendors). This results in our customers saving time and ultimately spending less. Since its incorporation in 2000, FLEETCOR s smarter payment and spend management solutions have been delivered in a variety of ways depending on the needs of the customer. From physical payment cards to software that includes customizable controls and robust payment capabilities, we provide our customers with a better way to pay. FLEETCOR has been a member of the S P 500 since 2018 and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker FLT. We expect to rebrand FLEETCOR to Corpay, Inc. in March 2024, including changing our New York Stock Exchange ticker from FLT to CPAY. Businesses spend an estimated $135 trillion each year in transactions with other businesses. In many instances, businesses lack the proper tools to monitor what is being purchased, and employ manual, paper-based, disparate processes and methods to both approve and make payments for their business-to-business purchases. This often results in wasted time and money due to unnecessary or unauthorized spending, fraud, receipt collection, data input and consolidation, report generation, reimbursement processing, account reconciliations, employee disciplinary actions, and more. Digital payments are faster and more secure than paper-based methods such as checks, and provide timely and detailed data that can be utilized to effectively reduce unauthorized purchases and fraud, automate data entry and reporting, and eliminate reimbursement processes. Combining this payment data with analytical tools delivers powerful insights, which managers can use to better run their businesses. FLEETCOR s vision is that every payment is digital, every purchase is controlled, and every related decision is informed. Our wide range of modern, digitized solutions provide control, reporting, and automation benefits superior to many of the payment methods businesses often use such as cash, paper checks, general purpose credit cards, as well as employee pay and reclaim processes. In addition to delivering meaningful value to our customers, our solutions also share several important and attractive business model characteristics such as: the majority of revenue is derived primarily from business customers, which tend to have relatively predictable, consistent volumes; recurring revenue models driven by recurring volume, resulting in predictable revenue; similar selling systems with common sales approaches, management and reporting; specialized technology platforms and proprietary payment acceptance networks, which create competitive advantages and barriers to entry; and high EBITDA margins and cash flow translation with limited infrastructure investment requirements. We actively market and sell to current and prospective customers leveraging a multi-channel, go-to-market approach, which includes comprehensive digital channels, direct sales forces and strategic partner relationships. We sell stand-alone products and services, and are currently organizing and establishing platforms where a single customer can use multiple products from one user interface. It is important to note that we compete mostly with legacy payment methods and traditional ways of paying, such as cash and checks. We supplement our organic growth strategy and sales efforts by pursuing attractive acquisition opportunities, which serve to strengthen and extend our market positions and create value faster. With a long, proven operating history, FLEETCOR now serves hundreds of thousands of customers with millions of cardholders making payments to millions of vendors around the world. FLEETCOR has the following reportable segments: Vehicle Payments, Corporate Payments, Lodging Payments and Other. We report these segments as they reflect how we organize and manage our global employee base, manage operating performance, execute on strategic initiatives and contemplate the differing regulatory environments across geographies and solutions. Our Vehicle Payments solutions help control and monitor employee spending while in the field or in a vehicle and include fuel, tolls and other complementary products. Our Corporate Payments solutions simplify and automate vendor payments and include accounts payable (AP) automation, virtual cards, cross-border, and purchasing and travel and entertainment (T E) card products. Our Lodging Payments solutions help businesses manage their lodging costs, while simplifying the management offerings from hotels, to longer term housing arrangements, while also providing traveler and end customer support. 5 Table of Contents Vehicle Payments Our Vehicle Payments solutions are purpose-built to enable our customers to pay for vehicle related expenses. For our business customers, we also provide greater control and visibility of spending when compared with less specialized payment methods, such as cash or general-purpose credit cards. Our digital enabled solutions provide customers with significant control capabilities such as, customizable user-level controls, programmable alerts, and detailed transaction reporting. Furthermore, our business customers can use the data, controls and tools to combat employee misuse and fraud, streamline expense administration and potentially lower their operating costs, accessible through sophisticated web portals and mobile applications. For our consumer customers, our Vehicle Payment solutions provide seamless, mobile first digital experience when paying for certain vehicle related expenses, removing the friction associated with alternative payment methods and having to use multiple service providers. We utilize both proprietary and third-party payment acceptance networks to deliver our Vehicle Payments solutions. In our proprietary networks, which tend to be geographically distinct and unique to the markets we serve, transactions are processed on applications and operating systems owned and operated by us, and only at select participating merchants with whom we have contracted directly for acceptance. These proprietary networks generally provide us with better economics, as we control more of the transaction, and richer data because of how the networks and point of sale software are configured. Third-party networks are operated by independent parties, and tend to be more broadly accepted, which is the primary benefit compared with our proprietary networks. Mastercard and VISA are our primary third-party network partners. Fuel Our fuel solutions are used by customers to pay and control spending for fuel for vehicles and fleets, Our fuel solutions are fuel type agnostic, regardless of fuel type (fossil fuel, electricity, etc.). We offer fuel solutions to businesses and government entities who operate vehicle fleets, as well as to consumers primarily in Brazil, Mexico and Europe. At the most basic level, we provide the measurement of fuel used and facilitate the payment for that fuel to the merchant, whether that fuel be diesel, gasoline, compressed natural gas, or electricity, while also providing online control, reporting and tracking capabilities to fleet operators. In many cases we can also deliver fuel price savings to our business customers when compared to the retail (board) price of fuel, and in Europe especially, we also enable fleets to significantly streamline the VAT reclaim process by digitizing and itemizing fuel receipts in a way that is compliant with tax authority requirements. The measurement, control and payment needs of our customers operating electric vehicles (EV) are similar to those operating traditional, internal combustion vehicles, just centered around electricity usage instead of gas or diesel usage. As we help our customers manage through the transition to EVs, many will operate mixed fleets for a long period of time, and will need access to all modalities of fueling, including networks of fuel stations, electric charging stations both on the road and at the office, in addition to at-home charging options. Considering the increased complexity of managing a mixed or an all EV fleet, our product sets are positioned to remain valuable and capture transaction economics, regardless of the vehicle type or propulsion method. We have also enhanced our customer platforms and reporting capabilities to ensure a fully integrated mixed fleet experience for our customers, so they can capture and review all the relevant fleet insights in one place, eliminating the need to select alternative providers for different fuel types or manage disparate systems. Many of our solutions also have additional capabilities, where we can enable the fuel card to allow customers to purchase a limited set of non-fuel items, such as oil, tolls, parking and vehicle maintenance supplies. Our proprietary EV networks in the U.K. and western Europe, combined with our Mastercard network in the U.S., offer access to hundreds of thousands of charge points and the management of at-home charging, while also delivering additional value-added services through a mobile app, including the ability to locate and route to a charge-point, charge-point speed, functionality and whether in use. Our EV home-charging software solution is aimed at fleets that need to accurately reimburse drivers for charging that takes place at home for business purposes, capturing, measuring and accurately pricing relevant charging sessions and is directly integrated with energy companies to facilitate direct payment, thus bypassing the home energy account. We are actively expanding our EV footprint to accommodate charging in the U.S., U.K. and Europe. We also provide program management services to major oil companies, leasing companies and fuel marketers, which allow these partners to outsource the sales, marketing, credit, service, and system operations of their branded fuel card portfolios. Our fuel partners include British Petroleum (BP), Arco, Speedway, Casey's and over 640 fuel marketers of all sizes. On the EV side, we also provide similar modular solutions to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) who wish to distribute on-road EV charging solutions to consumers buying an EV. We would typically either white-label our charging app or integrate directly via application programming interface (API) with vehicle OEMs to deliver access to our products. Our vehicle OEM partners include Renault, Nissan, Polestar and Jaguar-Land Rover. Tolls Operated primarily in Brazil, we are the leading electronic toll payments provider to businesses and consumers in the form of radio frequency identification (RFID) tags affixed to vehicle windshields. Our tolls solution primarily operates on our proprietary Sem Parar TM network, which processes transactions for more than 6.7 million tagholders on 100% of the toll roads that accept RFID across Brazil. We provide convenience and faster travel for customers, while also reducing manual labor and cash handling at merchants toll booths. Our tolls solution also provides commercial customers with driver routing controls and fare auditing, mostly in the form of vehicle type and axle count configuration. Our tags may also be used at approximately 6,400 participating merchant locations to purchase goods and services while in the vehicle, such as parking, fuel, car washes, and meals at drive-through restaurants. At merchant locations, payment via electronic 6 Table of Contents tags is faster, safer and more secure for customers, which in turn increases loyalty and throughput for merchants and eliminates the handling of cash. Parking Our parking app for mobile devices allows millions of consumers and fleets to pay for parking in seconds, replacing the use of coins or cash for parking. Our solution also allows business fleets the ability to manage their vehicles from anywhere, add and remove authorized drivers and pay in a secured and approved modality. Given the high frequency nature of use and the millions of monthly active users on the app, parking lends itself well to further extension into the other services we offer, namely EV charging, maintenance and fueling, amongst others. Our parking solutions are available in the U.S., Canada, Europe, the U.K. and Brazil. Fleet Maintenance We provide a SaaS-based vehicle lifecycle management solution that helps major leasing companies, as well as fleet operators of all sizes, to predominately manage their vehicle maintenance, service, and repair needs primarily in the U.K., but also in France, Denmark, Ireland and Australia. This solution is provided through our proprietary maintenance and repair network, which, in the U.K., processes transactions for fleet customers at over 9,000 service centers. The same platform also provides leasing companies with the capability to manage the re-marketing of leased vehicles and any ad-hoc vehicle rental needs. In addition, we offer compliance service to the U.K. s heavy goods (truck) operators, workshops and drivers. Finally, we are increasingly extending the platform for use in the small fleet and B2B2C space, enabling consumers to access our proprietary maintenance network at advantaged economics to them. Long-Haul Transportation Services In addition to, and often in conjunction with our fuel solutions, we provide trucking companies in North America with various solutions and services relevant to their industry including road tax compliance analysis and reporting, permit procurement and cash movement and disbursement. Benefits In Mexico and Brazil, we offer prepaid food vouchers or cards that may be used as a form of payment in restaurants and grocery stores. Additionally, in Brazil, we offer prepaid transportation cards and vouchers that may be used by commuting employees as a form of payment on public transportation. Corporate Payments Our Corporate Payments solutions are designed to help businesses streamline the back-office operations associated with making outgoing payments to vendors. Companies can save time, cut costs, and manage B2B payment processing more efficiently with our suite of Corporate Payment solutions, including AP automation, virtual cards, cross-border, and purchasing and T E cards. AP Automation We offer AP Automation solutions with options that are purpose-built for the simplest small business to the most complex large enterprise. We initiate, manage and guarantee payment of all company-approved bills to all domestic and international vendors through whichever payment modalities the vendors allow, such as automated clearing house (ACH), wire, check or payment card. Our mid-market/enterprise option meets the needs of the most complex global enterprises with multiple organizational hierarchies, approval workflows, locations, bank accounts, robust on-demand reporting and seamless integration with Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems. We also provide rich data on the remittance to the vendor, regardless of payment modality, which facilitates invoice reconciliations and payment posting. By automating the process of paying vendors, businesses of all sizes can reduce the time, costs and fraud risks associated with their payment processes, and focus on operating their businesses. Virtual Card Our Virtual Card solution provides a single-use card number for a specific amount, usable within a defined timeframe. Virtual Cards provide enhanced security relative to checks while reducing total payment costs for our customers. Full remittance data accompanies each Virtual Card payment, providing significant reconciliation advantages to ACH payments. We have integrated our Virtual Card offering into most leading ERP systems, providing a seamless experience for AP personnel. We have built a proprietary merchant acceptance network that accepts our Virtual Card payments. Our merchant acceptance network is unique due to the nature of commercial Virtual Card acceptance. Each issuer negotiates directly with the merchant for acceptance, so other issuers virtual cards are not interchangeable. This network is managed with proprietary technology that allows us to continuously expand Virtual Card acceptance and optimize the amount of spend we can capture. The scale of this network, coupled with an in-house vendor enrollment service, is a competitive advantage. Our ERP integrations, API capabilities, strategic vendor enrollment, and transaction management tools enable us to optimize our customers electronic payables programs. Our Virtual Card solution operates solely on the Mastercard network. Our customers ERP systems are directly integrated with our issuing system, and merchants must be enrolled in our proprietary vendor network to accept our Virtual Card solution. This two-sided transaction, where both payor and receiver are in our network, provides substantial payment security relative to paper checks or ACH. Cross-Border Our Cross-Border solution is used by our customers to pay international vendors, foreign office and personnel expenses and for profit repatriation and dividends. We also offer hedging and risk management services to customers, which helps them manage the impact of volatile exchange rates in the course of doing business internationally. This solution may be sold in conjunction with our AP Automation and Virtual Card solutions. 7 Table of Contents Trade settlement and payment delivery is facilitated through a global network of correspondent banks, in-country payment gateways and technology providers, enabling us to send payments to recipients in over 200 countries and 145 currencies. Our customers rely on us to deliver personalized service and customer solutions. We offer a proprietary trading and payments platform that we can "white label" for financial institutions looking to expand their cross-border payment capability, as well as a suite of API products that enables us to embed our full capability directly within the technology of both customers and partners. By utilizing transaction monitoring and watch list screening systems, we ensure payments are safe, secure, and meet all applicable regulatory requirements. Purchasing and T E Cards We also offer purchasing cards and travel entertainment (T E) solutions to our customers. These solutions are generally sold in conjunction with our Virtual Card or AP Automation offerings. Additionally, we provide technology, which combines and leverages transaction data captured from our virtual, purchasing, and T E card products, to help our customers analyze and manage their corporate spending. Lodging Payments Our Lodging Payments solutions help businesses manage and control their lodging costs while simplifying the management offerings from hotels or longer term housing arrangements and also providing traveler and end customer support. We serve lodging customers through three primary verticals: workforce, airlines and insurance. We offer lodging solutions to businesses primarily in North America and the U.K. that have employees who travel overnight for work purposes, to airlines and cruise lines globally to accommodate both their traveling crews and stranded passengers and to policyholders displaced from their homes due to damage or catastrophe on behalf of property insurance carriers. The size, scale, and nature of our lodging customer base enables us to negotiate lodging nightly rates lower than the rates most companies could negotiate directly and far below the rates available to the general public. We utilize both proprietary and third-party networks where we provide access to deeply discounted hotel rooms with streamlined travel management programs, providing enhanced controls and reporting, audit and tax management services. We also can secure hotel rooms outside our proprietary networks in each of our solutions, or private homes in our insurance vertical. We use proprietary data management and payment processing systems to manage customer billings and reports, which, combined with our discounted hotel network, provide customers with potential savings and increased visibility into their lodging costs. Workforce Our Workforce Lodging solutions provide a comprehensive solution for business travel programs of any size and business profile, with the ability to scale to the needs of the customer. Our solution allows customers to