Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Item 2. Properties 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 13 Information about our Executive Officers 14 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Capital Stock, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 16 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 40 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Item 9B. Other Information 89 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 Item 11. Executive Compensation 89 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 90 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 90 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Index to Exhibits 92 Signatures 95 2 PART I This Report contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations regarding our future results of operations, economic performance, financial condition and achievements. These forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "pursue," "strategy," "target," "will" and similar expressions. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, and may reflect anticipated cost savings or implementation of our strategic plan. These statements reflect our current plans and expectations and are based on information currently available to us. They rely on several assumptions regarding future events and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in "Risk Factors" and in the "Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results" in "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Report. Our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are presented in "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Item 1. Business The Company Unless otherwise stated, the terms "we," "us," "our" and the "company" refer to Campbell Soup Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded food and beverage products. We organized as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, we trace our heritage in the food business back to 1869. Our principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799. In 2018, we acquired Pacific Foods of Oregon, LLC and Snyder's-Lance, Inc. (Snyder's-Lance). See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our recent acquisitions. In 2019, we announced our plan to divest our Campbell Fresh operating segment and our international biscuits and snacks operating segment. In 2019, we sold our U.S. refrigerated soup business, our Garden Fresh Gourmet business and our Bolthouse Farms business. Within our international biscuits and snacks operating segment, we completed the sale of our Kelsen business on September 23, 2019. On December 23, 2019, we completed the sale of our Arnott s business and certain other international operations, including the simple meals and shelf-stable beverages businesses in Australia and Asia Pacific (the Arnott s and other international operations). In addition, on October 11, 2019, we completed the sale of our European chips business. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these divestitures. We used the net proceeds from the sales to reduce debt as described below in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. To support our more focused portfolio, we are pursuing multi-year cost savings initiatives with targeted annualized cost savings of $850 million from continuing operations by the end of 2022, which includes $295 million in synergies and run-rate cost savings from our acquisition of Snyder's-Lance. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information regarding our cost savings initiatives. Our U.S. refrigerated soup business, our Garden Fresh Gourmet business and our Bolthouse Farms business were historically included in the Campbell Fresh segment. Beginning in the third quarter of 2019, we have reflected the results of operations of these businesses as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all periods presented. A portion of the U.S. refrigerated soup business historically included in Campbell Fresh was retained and is now reported in Meals Beverages. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2019, we have reflected the results of operations of our Kelsen business and the Arnott s and other international operations (collectively referred to as Campbell International) as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses have been reflected in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July 28, 2019. These businesses were historically included in the Snacks reportable segment. The results of the European chips business through the date of sale were reflected in continuing operations within the Snacks reportable segment. Reportable Segments Our reportable segments are: Meals Beverages, which includes the retail and foodservice businesses in the U.S. and Canada. The segment includes the following products: Campbell s condensed and ready-to-serve soups; Swanson broth and stocks; Pacific Foods broth, soups and non-dairy beverages; Prego pasta sauces; Pace Mexican sauces; Campbell s gravies, pasta, beans and dinner sauces; Swanson canned poultry; Plum baby food and snacks; V8 juices and beverages; and Campbell s tomato juice; and 3 Snacks, which consists of Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, fresh bakery and frozen products in U.S. retail, including Milano cookies and Goldfish crackers; and Snyder s of Hanover pretzels, Lance sandwich crackers, Cape Cod and Kettle Brand potato chips, Late July snacks, Snack Factory Pretzel Crisps, Pop Secret popcorn, Emerald nuts, and other snacking products in the U.S. and Canada. The segment includes the retail business in Latin America. This segment also included the results of our European chips business, which was sold on October 11, 2019. Through the fourth quarter of 2019, our retail business in Latin America was managed as part of the Meals Beverages segment. Beginning in 2020, our business in Latin America is managed as part of the Snacks segment. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information regarding our reportable segments. Ingredients and Packaging The ingredients and packaging materials required for the manufacture of our food and beverage products are purchased from various suppliers, substantially all of which are located in North America. These items are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including climate change, changes in crop size, cattle cycles, herd and flock disease, crop disease, crop pests, product scarcity, pandemics, demand for raw materials, supplier capacities, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, government-sponsored agricultural programs and other government policy, import and export requirements (including tariffs), drought and excessive rain, temperature extremes and other adverse weather events, water scarcity, scarcity of suitable agricultural land, scarcity of organic ingredients and other factors that may be beyond our control during the growing and harvesting seasons. To help reduce some of this price volatility, we use a combination of purchase orders, short- and long-term contracts, inventory management practices and various commodity risk management tools for most of our ingredients and packaging. Ingredient inventories are generally at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only during certain seasons, we make commitments for the purchase of such ingredients in their respective seasons. In addition, certain of the materials required for the manufacture of our products, including steel and aluminum, have been or may be impacted by tariffs. Despite our ability to source raw materials necessary to meet increased demand for our products, certain ingredients and packaging, including steel, aluminum, glass, agricultural products, proteins and other commodities have been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Although we are unable to predict the impact to our ability to source these materials in the future, we expect these supply pressures to continue throughout 2021. For information on the impact of inflation, see "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Customers In most of our markets, sales and merchandising activities are conducted through our own sales force and/or third-party brokers and distribution partners. Our products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores, dollar stores, e-commerce and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. Each of Pepperidge Farm and Snyder's-Lance also has a direct-store-delivery distribution model that uses independent contractor distributors. We make shipments promptly after acceptance of orders. In the second half of 2020 we experienced increased demand in our retail businesses as the COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental restrictions resulted in a significant increase in at-home food consumption. We have taken steps, including modifying production schedules and temporarily adjusting product mix, to increase our production capacity to meet the increased demand for our retail products. Notwithstanding these efforts, we have been, and continue to be, unable to fulfill all orders we receive from our customers. For additional information on COVID-19 impacts, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 44 % of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2020, 43% in 2019 and 46% in 2018. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 21 % of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2020, 20 % in 2019 and 22 % 2018. The Kroger Co. and its affiliates accounted for approximately 9 % of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2020 and 2019, and 10 % in 2018. Both of our reportable segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates and The Kroger Co. or its affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. Trademarks and Technology As of September 16, 2020, we owned over 3,000 trademark registrations and applications in over 160 countries. We believe our trademarks are of material importance to our business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained and have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations generally can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We believe that our principal brands, including Campbell's , Cape Cod , Chunky , Emerald , Goldfish , Kettle Brand , Lance , Late July , Milano , Pace , Pacific Foods , Pepperidge Farm , Plum , Pop Secret , Prego , Snack Factory Pretzel Crisps , Snyder's of Hanover , Spaghettios , Swanson , and V8 , are protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are used. 4 Although we own a number of valuable patents, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own copyrights, both registered and unregistered, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are not registered. Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience competition in all of our categories. This competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes across multiple food and beverage categories, and includes producers of private label products, as well as other branded food and beverage manufacturers. Private label products are generally sold at lower prices than branded products. Competitors market and sell their products through traditional retailers and e-commerce. All of these competitors vie for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. The number of competitors cannot be reliably estimated. Our principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, nutritional value, price, promotion, innovation, shelf space and customer service. Working Capital For information relating to our cash flows from operations and working capital items, see "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources." Capital Expenditures During 2020, our aggregate capital expenditures were $299 million. We expect to spend approximately $350 million for capital projects in 2021. Major capital projects based on planned spend in 2021 include implementation of an SAP enterprise-resource planning system for Snyder's-Lance, which was delayed from 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and a new manufacturing line for our snacks business. Regulation The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated. In the U.S., our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Labor, Department of Commerce and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. Our business is also regulated by similar agencies outside of the U.S. In addition, the current U.S. administration has implemented and is considering tariffs on certain imported commodities, including steel and aluminum. In response, other countries have adopted and/or are considering countervailing tariffs on imported food and agriculture products. Environmental Matters We have requirements for the operation and design of our facilities that meet or exceed applicable environmental rules and regulations. Of our $299 million in capital expenditures made during 2020, approximately $6 million were for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. We further estimate that approximately $13 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during 2021 will be for compliance with U.S. environmental laws and regulations. We believe that continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (both within the U.S. and elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. In addition, we continue to monitor existing and pending environmental laws and regulations within the U.S. and elsewhere relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. Seasonality Demand for soup products is seasonal, with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the highest sales volume. This year, due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, demand for soup products was above normal levels during the spring and summer months. Demand for our other products is generally evenly distributed throughout the year. Employees On August 2, 2020, we had approximately 14,500 employees. Websites Our primary corporate website can be found at www.campbellsoupcompany.com . We make available free of charge at this website (under the "Investor Center Financial Information SEC Filings" caption) all of our reports (including amendments) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. All websites appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are inactive textual references only, and the information in, or accessible through, such websites is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 5