Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 15 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 Information about our Executive Officers 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Capital Stock, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Reserved 20 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 38 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B. Other Information 83 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 83 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation 84 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 84 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 84 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 84 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 84 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 85 Index to Exhibits 86 Signatures 89 3 PART I This Report contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations regarding our future results of operations, economic performance, financial condition and achievements. These forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "pursue," "strategy," "target," "will" and similar expressions. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, and may reflect anticipated cost savings or implementation of our strategic plan. These statements reflect our current plans and expectations and are based on information currently available to us. They rely on several assumptions regarding future events and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in "Risk Factors" and in the "Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results" in "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this Report. Our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements are presented in "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Report. Item 1. Business The Company Unless otherwise stated, the terms "we," "us," "our" and the "company" refer to Campbell Soup Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality, branded food and beverage products. We organized as a business corporation under the laws of New Jersey on November 23, 1922; however, through predecessor organizations, we trace our heritage in the food business back to 1869. Our principal executive offices are in Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799. On March 12, 2024, we completed the acquisition of Sovos Brands, Inc. (Sovos Brands) for total purchase consideration of $2.899 billion. For additional information on this acquisition, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On August 26, 2024, we completed the sale of our Pop Secret popcorn business. For additional information on the divestiture, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our operations, including reportable segments, are described below. Our locations, including manufacturing facilities, within each reporting segment are described in Item 2. Properties. Reportable Segments Our reportable segments are: Meals Beverages, which consists of our soup, simple meals and beverages products in retail and foodservice in the U.S. and Canada. The segment includes the following products: Campbell s condensed and ready-to-serve soups; Swanson broth and stocks; Pacific Foods broth, soups and non-dairy beverages; Prego pasta sauces; Pace Mexican sauces; Campbell s gravies, pasta, beans and dinner sauces; Swanson canned poultry; V8 juices and beverages; Campbell s tomato juice; and as of March 12, 2024, Rao's pasta sauces, dry pasta, frozen entr es, frozen pizza and soups; Michael Angelo's frozen entr es and pasta sauces; and noosa yogurts. The segment also includes snacking products in foodservice and Canada; and Snacks, which consists of Pepperidge Farm cookies*, crackers, fresh bakery and frozen products, including Goldfish crackers*, Snyder s of Hanover pretzels*, Lance sandwich crackers*, Cape Cod potato chips *, Kettle Brand potato chips * , Late July snacks*, Snack Factory pretzel crisps* , and other snacking products in retail in the U.S. We refer to the * brands a s our "power brands." The segment includes the retail business in Latin America. The segment included the results of our Emerald nuts business, which was sold on May 30, 2023 and our Pop Secret popcorn business, which was sold on August 26, 2024. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information regarding our reportable segments. Ingredients and Packaging The ingredients and packaging materials required for the manufacture of our food and beverage products are purchased from various suppliers, substantially all of which are located in North America. During 2024, we experienced moderately elevated commodity and supply chain costs including the costs of labor, raw materials, energy, fuel, packaging materials and other inputs necessary for the production and distribution of our products. In addition, many of these items are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including but not limited to climate change, changes in crop size, cattle cycles, herd and flock disease, crop disease, crop pests, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, supplier capacities, government-sponsored agricultural programs and other government policy, import and export requirements (including tariffs), drought and excessive rain, temperature extremes and other adverse weather 4 events, water scarcity, scarcity of suitable agricultural land, scarcity of organic ingredients, pandemics or other local or global health issues, geopolitical conflicts, environmental and other sustainability regulations and other factors that may be beyond our control. To help reduce some of this price volatility, we use a combination of purchase orders, short- and long-term contracts, inventory management practices and various commodity risk management tools for most of our ingredients and packaging. Ingredient inventories are generally at a peak during the late fall and decline during the winter and spring. Since many ingredients of suitable quality are available in sufficient quantities only during certain seasons, we make commitments for the purchase of such ingredients in their respective seasons. We are unable to predict the impact of our ability to source these ingredients and packaging materials in the future, and certain supply pressures may continue throughout 2025. We expect input cost inflation in 2025 to remain at similar levels as 2024, as we continue to see improvement across certain ingredients and packaging materials; however, we could experience unexpectedly high input cost inflation in various categories. Customers In most of our markets, sales and merchandising activities are conducted through our own sales force and/or third-party brokers and distribution partners. Our products are generally resold to consumers through retail food chains, mass discounters, mass merchandisers, club stores, convenience stores, drug stores, dollar stores, e-commerce and other retail, commercial and non-commercial establishments. Our Snacks segment has a direct-store-delivery distribution model that uses independent contractor distributors. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 47 % of our consolidated net sales in 2024, 2023, and 2022. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 22 % of our consolidated net sales in 2024, 2023, and 2022. Both of our reportable segments sold products to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or its affiliates. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. Trademarks and Technology As of September 11, 2024, we owned over 3,000 trademark registrations and applications in over 150 countries. We believe our trademarks are of material importance to our business. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid and can be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not become generic. We believe that our principal brands, including Campbell's , Cape Cod , Chunky , Goldfish , Kettle Brand , Lance , Late July , Milano , Pace , Pacific Foods , Pepperidge Farm , Prego , Rao's, Snack Factory , Snyder's of Hanover , Spaghettios , Swanson , and V8 , are protected by trademark law in the major markets where they are used. Although we own a number of valuable patents, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own copyrights, both registered and unregistered, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are not registered. Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry and experience competition in all of our categories. This competition arises from numerous competitors of varying sizes across multiple food and beverage categories, and includes producers of private label products, as well as other branded food and beverage manufacturers. Private label products are generally sold at lower prices than branded products. Competitors market and sell their products through traditional retailers and e-commerce. All of these competitors vie for trade merchandising support and consumer dollars. The number of competitors cannot be reliably estimated. Our principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, nutritional value, price, promotion, innovation, shelf space and customer service. Capital Expenditures During 2024, our aggregate capital expenditures were $517 million. We expect to spend approximately $530 million for capital projects in 2025. Major capital projects based on planned spend in 2025 include network optimization for our Meals Beverages business, finalization of capacity projects for our Snacks business, enhancements to our headquarters in Camden, New Jersey, implementation of our existing SAP enterprise-resource planning system for Sovos Brands and network wastewater initiatives. We estimate that approximately $25 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during 2025 will be for the initial phase of upgrades to our Napoleon, Ohio wastewater treatment facility, with another $20 million for other network wastewater initiatives. Government Regulation The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated. In the U.S., our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Labor, the Department of Commerce, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. Our business is also regulated by similar agencies outside of the U.S. Additionally, we are subject to packaging and labeling regulations, data privacy and security regulations, tax and securities regulations, import regulations, accounting and reporting standards, and other financial laws and regulations. We believe that we are in compliance with current laws and regulations in all material 5 respects and do not expect that continued compliance with such laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. Environmental Matters Of our $517 million in capital expenditures made during 2024, approximately $15 million were for compliance with environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. We further estimate that approximately $25 million of the capital expenditures anticipated during 2025 will be for upgrades to our Napoleon, Ohio wastewater treatment facility, with another approximately $20 million for other network wastewater initiatives. Additionally, we anticipate spending approximately $10 million for compliance with U.S. environmental laws and regulations during 2025. We believe that the continued compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations (both within the U.S. and elsewhere) will not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. In addition, we continue to monitor existing and pending environmental laws and regulations within the U.S. and elsewhere relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While the impact of these laws and regulations cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that compliance with these laws and regulations will have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings or our competitive position. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding certain environmental matters. Seasonality Demand for soup products is seasonal, with the fall and winter months usually accounting for the highest sales volume. Demand for our other products is generally evenly distributed throughout the year. Human Capital Management One of the five areas of our strategic framework is to build a Top Team. To do this, we are committed to building a company where everyone can be real, and feel safe, valued and supported to do their best work. We believe that our employees are the driving force behind our success and prioritize attracting, developing and retaining diverse, world-class talent and creating an inclusive culture that embodies our purpose: Connecting people through food they love . We have recently completed our plan to bring together all of our corporate team members from our Snacks offices in Charlotte, North Carolina and Norwalk, Connecticut to our headquarters in Camden, New Jersey. This move has helped to foster closer collaboration and enhance decision-making, thereby improving our ability to execute our business strategy. We have established a new Employee Value Proposition, Make history with Campbell s, to enhance our focus on building a winning team and culture. On July 28, 2024, we had approximately 14,400 full-time and part-time employees. Training, Development and Engagement We invest in our employees through training and development programs. We have partnered with leading online content experts and increased internal learning development to expand our catalog of courses and support our culture of continuous learning. A suite of training and education programs are available to employees ranging from role-specific training to education on soft skills to assist them with enhancing their careers through continuous learning. Through objective-setting, individual development plans, learning opportunities, feedback and coaching, employees are encouraged to continue their professional growth. Our education programs allow employees to focus on timely and topical development areas including leadership, management excellence, functional capabilities and inclusion and diversity. We communicate frequently and transparently with our employees through regular company-wide and business unit check-ins, and we conduct employee engagement surveys that provide our employees with an opportunity to share anonymous feedback with management in a variety of areas including confidence in leadership, growth and career opportunities, alignment of work and overall engagement. These surveys allow our leaders to develop action plans for their business units as well as the broader organization. In addition, in 2024, we launched a new initiative, Campbell s Way of Leadership , to help our employees develop leadership skills and drive the growth of our business. As of July 28, 2024, we have trained approximately 50% of our supervisory and management population in Campbell s Way of Leadership programs. Our Campbell Employee Experience enhances the foundational moments that are key to an employee's career at our company - from the candidate experience and onboarding through career advancement - to help our employees thrive at work, with the goal of building an inclusive, engaging and high-performing culture. Inclusion and Diversity A key to our success is our ability to attract and retain top talent in all areas of our business. We believe that having an inclusive and diverse culture strengthens our ability to recruit and develop this talent and allows employees to thrive and succeed. Our inclusion and diversity (I D) efforts are focused around three pillars: Capabilities - providing resources and tools to employees to develop capabilities to build a winning team and culture; Advocacy - supporting our employees, our partners and the communities where we live and work; and 6 Accountability - having individual, management and organizational accountability and transparency about our progress on building an inclusive and diverse culture. Each pillar has focus areas and initiatives designed to further its objectives. Together, these activities create a holistic approach to I D across the company. To support these pillars, we have developed strategies focused on building a pipeline of diverse talent through expanded recruitment efforts, I D learning opportunities, internal talent development and leveraging our employee resource groups. Throughout 2024 the board of directors received regular updates from management on our I D efforts. Wellness and Safety Our employees' health, safety and well-being are our top priorities. We promote a strong culture of safety and prioritize keeping all our employees, contractors and visitors safe. To accomplish this, we employ comprehensive health, safety and environment management policies and standards throughout the organization. In addition, we strive to continuously improve our work processes, tools and metrics to reduce workplace injuries and enhance safety. We provide a workplace that develops, supports and motivates our people. Our Resources for Living program provides information, education tools and resources to help support our employees' physical, financial, social and emotional well-being. As part of this focus on well-being, we emphasize the need for our employees to embrace healthy lifestyles and we offer a variety of wellness education opportunities for our employees. We continue to modernize our workspaces and have a hybrid work policy to allow office-based employees to work remotely several days per week. Total Rewards We provide market-based competitive compensation through our salary, annual incentive and long-term incentive programs, and a robust benefits package that promotes the overall well-being of our employees. We provide a variety of resources and services to help our employees plan for retirement and provide a 401(k) plan with immediate vesting. We benchmark and establish compensation structures based on competitive market data. Individual pay is based on various factors such as an employee's role, experience, job location and contributions. Performance discussions for salaried employees are conducted throughout the year to assess contributions and inform individual development plans. Websites Our primary corporate website can be found at www.campbellsoupcompany.com . We make available free of charge at the Investors portion of this website (under the "Financials SEC Filings" caption) all of our reports (including amendments) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. These reports are made available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after their filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. All websites appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are inactive textual references only, and the information in, or accessible through, such websites is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or into any of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.