Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 10 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 1C Cyber security 17 Item 2 Properties 18 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6 Reserved 27 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures a bout Market Risk 47 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements w ith Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 100 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 100 Item 9B Other Information 101 Item 9C Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 101 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 102 Item 11 Executive Compensation 102 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 102 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 102 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 102 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 103 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 104 Signatures 105 CRH Form 10-K 1 Forward Looking Statements Safe Harbor Provisions Under The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Of 1995 In order to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, CRH is providing the following cautionary statement. This document contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, business, viability and future performance of CRH and certain of the plans and objectives of CRH. These forward-looking statements may generally, but not always, be identified by the use of words such as will , anticipates , should , could , would , targets , aims , may , continues , expects , is expected to , estimates , believes , intends or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts or matters of fact at the date of this document. In particular, the following, among other statements, are all forward-looking in nature: plans and expectations regarding customer demand, pricing, costs, underlying drivers for growth in infrastructure, residential and non-residential activity, and macroeconomic and other trends in CRH s markets, including onshoring, regulatory trends, and investment in technology, clean energy and manufacturing; plans and expectations regarding government funding initiatives and priorities, including the timing and amount of government funding and its effects on CRH s business; plans and expectations regarding CRH s strategy, expansionary capital expenditures, competitive advantages, growth opportunities, innovation, research and development and acquisitions and divestments, including the timing for completion, tax and accounting effects and expected commercial benefits; plans and expectations regarding the outcome of pending legal proceedings and provisions for environmental and remediation costs; plans and expectations regarding the timing and amount of share buybacks and dividends, including the Board s policy of consistent long-term dividend growth; expectations regarding taxation of U.S. holders of our shares, including applicability of Irish Dividend Withholding Tax (DWT) and Irish stamp duty; expectations regarding the Company s income tax reserves and returns; plans and expectations regarding equity incentive plans and pension plans; plans and expectations regarding CRH s balance sheet, capital allocation, financial capacity, accounting policies, cash flows and working capital; expectations regarding CRH s ability to fund its long-term contractual obligations, maturing debt obligations, capital expenditures; and other liquidity requirements, plans and expectations regarding the amortization of costs related to issuance of debt in 2023 and recognition of compensation expense related to the Share Option Schemes; plans and expectations regarding the expected benefits of CRH s primary listing on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE); plans and expectations regarding the effect of existing and future laws, rules and regulations on CRH s business; plans and expectations regarding human capital initiatives, workplace safety, sustainability and climate change, CRH s decarbonization targets, sustainability-related initiatives and business opportunities, including investments, and the delivery of and consumer demand for sustainable solutions and products; and plans and expectations regarding the potential impact and evolving nature of risks and CRH s management of such risks. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and reflect the Company s current expectations and assumptions as to such future events and circumstances that may not prove accurate. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this document. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements other than as required by applicable law. A number of material factors could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond our control, and which include, among other factors: economic and financial conditions, including changes in interest rates, inflation, price volatility and/or labor and materials shortages; demand for infrastructure, residential and non-residential construction and our products in geographic markets in which we operate; increased competition and its impact on prices and market position; increases in energy, labor and/or other raw materials costs; adverse changes to laws and regulations, including in relation to climate change; the impact of unfavorable weather; investor and/or consumer sentiment regarding the importance of sustainable practices and products; availability of public sector funding for infrastructure programs; political uncertainty, including as a result of political and social conditions in the jurisdictions CRH operates in, or adverse political developments, including the ongoing geopolitical conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East; failure to complete or successfully integrate acquisitions or make timely divestments; cyber-attacks and exposure of associates, contractors, customers, suppliers and other individuals to health and safety risks, including due to product failures. Additional factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those expressed by the forward-looking statements in this report including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described herein and in Risk Factors in Part 1, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the Annual Report on Form 10-K ). CRH Form 10-K 2 PART I Item 1. Business Overview CRH is a leading provider of building materials solutions that build, connect and improve our world. In 2023, the Company generated $34.9 billion of revenues, $3.1 billion of net income and $6.2 billion of Adjusted EBITDA*. 1 Since formation in 1970, CRH has evolved from being a supplier of base materials to providing end-to-end value-added solutions that solve complex construction challenges for our customers. CRH works closely with the customer across the entire project lifecycle from planning, design, manufacture, installation and maintenance through to end-of-life recycling, using our engineering and innovation expertise to provide superior materials, products and services. The Company integrates essential materials (aggregates and cement), value-added building products as well as construction services, to provide our customers with complete end-to-end solutions. CRH s capabilities, innovation and technical expertise enable it to be a valuable partner for transportation and critical utility infrastructure projects, complex non-residential construction and outdoor living solutions. CRH s business addresses the needs of customers across infrastructure, non-residential and residential construction markets. In 2023, approximately 35% of revenues came from infrastructure (such as highways, streets, roads, bridges, and critical utility infrastructure), 30% from non-residential construction (including construction and maintenance of manufacturing, datacenter and distribution facilities) and 35% from residential construction. 55% of revenues came from sales to new-build construction, while 45% of revenues came from repair and remodel activity. Operating in 29 countries, the Company has market leadership positions in North America and Europe. In 2023, 72% of net income and 73% of Adjusted EBITDA* was generated in North America. The United States is expected to be a key driver of future growth for CRH due to continued economic expansion, a growing population and significant public investment in construction. Our European business, which benefits from strong economic and construction growth prospects across Central and Eastern Europe as well as recurring repair and remodel demand in Western Europe, is an important strategic part of the Company and CRH intends to continue to expand its operations across the region. In both geographies there is significant government support for infrastructure and increasing demand for integrated solutions in major infrastructure and commercial projects. CRH has a proven track record in value creation through acquisition which over the last decade has accounted for approximately two-thirds of the Company s growth. We achieve this by acquiring businesses at attractive valuations and creating value by integrating them with our existing operations and generating synergies. The Company takes an active approach to portfolio management and continuously reviews the competitive landscape for attractive investment and divestiture opportunities to deliver further growth and value creation for shareholders. In 2023, CRH completed 22 acquisitions for a total consideration of $0.7 billion compared with $3.3 billion in 2022. The largest acquisition in 2023 was in our Americas Building Solutions segment where the Company completed the acquisition of Hydro International, a leading provider of stormwater and wastewater solutions in North America and Europe. In 2023, CRH transitioned its primary stock exchange listing from the London Stock Exchange (LSE) to the NYSE. CRH currently maintains a primary listing on the NYSE and a standard listing on the LSE for its ordinary shares, each listing represented by the ticker symbol CRH . CRH believes that its NYSE primary listing will bring increased commercial, operational and acquisition opportunities for the Company, further accelerating its integrated solutions strategy and delivering even higher levels of profitability, cash and returns for its shareholders. Customer Solutions CRH s differentiated strategy integrates building materials, products and services by providing them to customers as complete solutions that solve key challenges across the built environment . Essential Materials Essential Materials, consisting of aggregates and cement, are the foundation of CRH s solutions strategy. Our vertically integrated businesses manufacture and supply these materials for use extensively in a wide range of construction applications, ranging from major road and infrastructure projects to the development and refurbishment of commercial buildings, private residences, public spaces and communities. Our deep materials and market knowledge, along with our extensive network of locations and assets, drives our performance and helps us deliver value to our customers. Customers typically range from national, regional and local governments to contractors and other construction product and service providers. Road Solutions CRH is a leading provider of solutions for sustainable road construction in North America and Europe. With our capabilities in manufacturing, installation, maintenance and circularity, we deliver a range of innovative solutions for our customers to better connect our communities, from major public highway infrastructure projects to residential roads, airports and parking lots. As responsible operators considerate of our environmental impact, we optimize the use of recycled materials in our paving services, thereby reducing waste, emissions and energy consumption. Fully integrated with our Essential Materials businesses, we have developed our Road Solutions offering to provide customers with quality, flexibility, speed, expertise and convenience through our deep market knowledge and highly capable team of professionals. Building and Infrastructure Solutions Our Building Infrastructure Solutions connect, protect and transport critical water, energy and telecommunications infrastructure to help solve complex construction challenges. We integrate design, materials, products and engineering to enable the transition to a more sustainable and resilient built environment with a particular focus on the below-ground built environment where we are a leading provider of multi-material infrastructure that connects and protects the critical utilities that enhance the daily lives of millions of people. * Represents a non-GAAP measure. See the discussion within 'Non-GAAP Reconciliation and Supplementary Information' on pages 38 to 40. 1 CRH Form 10-K 3 Outdoor Living Solutions CRH s Outdoor Living Solutions integrate specialized materials, products and design features to enhance the quality of private and public spaces. We help our customers in residential and commercial markets create unique outdoor settings by providing solutions for repair, remodel and new construction projects. Our business is closely connected to our customers through a broad geographic network as well as a comprehensive suite of products and services spanning hardscapes, masonry, fencing, railing, packaged lawn and garden products, pool finishes and composite decking. We place a strong focus on anticipating the needs of our customers and constantly strive to exceed their expectations. We do this by continually enhancing our offering through innovation, portfolio expansion and multifaceted collaboration. Innovation and Sustainability We are accelerating investment in innovation to develop a higher-performing and more sustainable built environment. Through our $250 million Venturing and Innovation Fund we are supporting the development of new technologies and innovative solutions to meet the increasingly complex needs of customers and evolving trends in construction. Our ability to replicate and scale our innovation and technical expertise between Europe and North America provides us with opportunities for further growth. Through our Innovation Center for Sustainable Construction (ICSC), we have a global network of experts across our businesses collaborating in the research, development and replication of innovative solutions. In addition, our CRH Ventures platform works in partnership with industrial leaders (such as Shell, Volvo, Caterpillar and others) and academic institutions to pilot and scale cutting-edge and innovative technologies. Sustainability is deeply embedded in all aspects of our business and sustainability leadership is a key pillar of CRH s purpose. CRH s building materials solutions play an important role in shaping a more sustainable built environment and in 2023, revenues from products with enhanced sustainability attributes 1 was $13.9 billion, an increase of 10% compared with 2022 and an increase of 22% compared with 2021. Our sustainability framework identifies three global challenges for society and the built environment; water, circularity and decarbonization. Our ability to solve these challenges by uniquely integrating our materials, products and services, positions us to capture further value and accelerate growth across CRH. Water: We are advancing solutions to address global water challenges by enhancing flood resilience and improving water management. This includes upgrading water infrastructure, improving wastewater treatment, recharging groundwater and conserving water across the supply chain. Circularity: We are reimagining the way materials are used to enable a more circular economy. Our efforts include preserving natural resources, recycling and reusing construction and waste materials, facilitating resource-efficient buildings and infrastructure and building more circular supply chains. Decarbonization: We are developing innovative solutions to support a low-carbon future. Our goals include reducing our absolute carbon emissions, minimizing operational carbon from our products and creating energy-efficient solutions to facilitate the clean energy transition. By continuing to meet the changing needs of our customers and society, we aim to drive further growth and value creation. In addition, we are striving to create a positive impact on the natural world, helping our people and communities to thrive. We stand out as a responsible business by collaborating to ensure a more sustainable supply chain and embedding responsible conduct at each level throughout our organization. Business Segment Information In the year ended December 31, 2023, CRH was organized through four segments across two divisions. Americas Division CRH s Americas Division comprises two segments: Americas Materials Solutions and Americas Building Solutions. The North American market s positive fundamentals, including strong population growth and significant public investment in construction, is driving demand for CRH s materials, products and services. Over several decades, CRH has established leadership positions across the United States and Canada. The Division employs approximately 46,400 people at 1,949 locations across 48 states of the United States and seven Canadian provinces. Americas Materials Solutions Americas Materials Solutions provides building materials for the construction and maintenance of public infrastructure and commercial and residential buildings in North America. The primary materials produced by this segment include aggregates, cement, readymixed concrete and asphalt. This segment also provides paving and construction services for customers. In 2023, this segment accounted for approximately 44% of CRH s total revenues and 50% of Adjusted EBITDA. Approximately 50% of segment revenues came from infrastructure, 30% from non-residential construction and 20% from residential construction. New-build construction accounts for approximately 50% of segment revenues while the remaining 50% came from repair and remodel activity. The Americas Materials Solutions segment leverages our strong market knowledge, deep industry expertise and extensive array of essential materials to implement CRH s differentiated strategy, offering value-added, end-to-end solutions which combine different types of materials, products and services to satisfy multiple customer needs. In turn, this enables CRH to provide a value-enhancing, one-stop-shop experience, saving time and reducing logistical complexity for customers. Through this approach CRH aims to reduce lead times and complexity, deepening relationships, driving repeat business and increasing the share of customer wallet spent on CRH products and services. Vertical integration is a defining characteristic within this segment, enabling us to optimize production throughout the value chain and to capture greater value. In order to support its operations, the Company has established a network of long-term reserves at quarry locations, predominantly adjacent to urban areas where demand for its materials and products is strongest. Americas Building Solutions Americas Building Solutions manufactures, supplies and delivers high quality, value-added, innovative solutions for the built environment in communities across North America. Solutions in this segment are highly specified, designed and engineered thereby adding value for the customer. This segment offers solutions serving complex critical utility infrastructure (such as water, energy, transportation and telecommunications projects) and outdoor living solutions for enhancing private and public spaces. 1 Revenues from products with enhanced sustainability attributes is defined as revenues derived from those products that incorporate any, or a combination of; recycled materials; are produced using alternative energy and fuel sources; have a lower carbon footprint as compared to those products using traditional manufacturing processes; and are designed to specifically benefit the environment. CRH Form 10-K 4 In 2023, Americas Building Solutions accounted for approximately 20% of CRH s total revenues and 23% of Adjusted EBITDA . Approximately 65% of segment revenues came from sales to residential, 25% to the non-residential market and 10% to infrastructure. Repair and remodel activity accounted for approximately 60% of segment revenues, with the remaining 40% from new-build construction. This segment analyzes market trends, including increasing urbanization, demand for more sustainable construction and evolving customer preferences to devise high quality, effective building product solutions. CRH s ability to provide end-to-end solutions which are tailored to the specific requirements of individual customer projects helps to drive competitive advantage and deliver sustainable growth in this segment. Europe Division CRH s Europe Division comprises two segments: Europe Materials Solutions and Europe Building Solutions. In Eastern Europe, we see high growth potential through strong infrastructure activity underpinned by European Union (EU) funding mechanisms. In Western Europe, CRH s businesses operate in markets which are more stable and developed with resilient demand for repair and remodel activity. In both regions, CRH is experiencing increasing demand for its integrated end-to-end solutions offering. The Division employs approximately 32,100 people at 1,441 locations across 28 countries . Europe Materials Solutions Europe Materials Solutions provides building materials for the construction of public infrastructure and commercial and residential buildings across Europe. The primary materials produced in this segment include aggregates, cement, readymixed concrete, asphalt and concrete products. In 2023, this segment accounted for 28% of CRH s total revenues and 22% of Adju sted EBITDA. Approximately 35% of segment revenues came from infrastructure, 35% from residential construction, and 30% from non-residential construction. New-build construction accounted for approximately 65% of segment revenues, with the remaining 35% from repair and remodel activity. The segment has extensively integrated its operations, enabling it to provide essential materials, value-added products and services and complete solutions to customers. CRH has established itself as a market leader through this integrated approach, particularly in European regions, where the Company s cement, readymixed concrete and aggregates operations have been integrated with its precast and concrete products businesses, enabling strong value creation through commercial excellence and performance improvement initiatives. Europe Building Solutions Europe Building Solutions combines materials, products and services to produce a wide range of architectural and infrastructural solutions for use in the building and renovation of critical utility infrastructure, commercial and residential buildings and outdoor living spaces. This business serves the growing demand across the construction value chain for innovative and value-added products and services. In 2023, this segment accounted for 8% of CRH s total revenues and 5% of Adjusted EBITDA. Approximately 40% of segment revenues came from residential construction, 35% from non-residential construction, and 25% from infrastructure. New-build construction accounted for approximately 80% of segment revenues, with the remaining 20% from repair and remodel activity. This business integrates design, engineering, materials and products to enable the transition to a m ore sustainable and resilient built environment. Materials and Products The following materials and products are produced and supplied by CRH s businesses. Aggregates Aggregates are naturally occurring mineral deposits such as granite, limestone and sandstone. CRH extracts these deposits and processes them for sale as aggregates products such as sand, gravel, and crushed stone. Typically, aggregates are used in road and rail infrastructure, building foundations and in the production of products including concrete and asphalt. Annualized aggregates sales volumes 2 in 2023 for the Americas Division and Europe Division were 213.9 million tons and 104.0 million tons, respectively. Cement Cement is produced from limestone reserves and is the primary binding agent in the production of concrete products, including readymixed concrete and mortars, which are used extensively throughout the built environment. Annualized cement sales volumes 2 in 2023 for the Americas Division and Europe Division were 13.4 million tons and 30.9 million tons, respectively. Concrete Concrete is a highly versatile building material, comprised of aggregates bound together with cement and water. Readymixed concrete is the most commonly used form of concrete. It forms the foundations of buildings and homes, roads, tunnels and bridges, water management systems and clean energy structures. While readymixed concrete is supplied to customers for on-site casting, CRH s infrastructural concrete businesses produce and supply precast and pre-stressed concrete products such as floor and wall elements, beams and vaults, pipes and manholes. These products are delivered to, and assembled at, construction sites where they are used throughout the modern built environment. Annualized readymixed concrete sales volumes 2 in 2023 for the Americas Division and Europe Division were 16.1 million cubic yards and 18.3 million cubic yards, respectively. Asphalt Asphalt consists of aggregates bound together with bitumen and is widely used as a surface material in roads, bridges, airport runways, sidewalks and other amenities. In recent years, the use of recycled materials in asphalt has increased considerably. Using materials from existing road surfaces to produce new asphalt reduces the need for virgin material demand, extends the life of our aggregates reserves and contributes to reducing the carbon footprint of the product. Recycled Asphalt Pavement (RAP) and Recycled Asphalt Shingles (RAS) are used extensively by CRH businesses to produce new asphalt products for road and other surfaces. Annualized asphalt sales volumes 2 in 2023 for the Americas Division and Europe Division were 52.5 million tons and 10.2 million tons, respectively. 2 Annualized sales volumes reflect the full-year impact of acquisitions and divestitures during the year and may vary from actual volumes sold. CRH Form 10-K 5 Building Products CRH s Building Infrastructure Solutions businesses manufacture concrete and polymer-based products such as underground vaults, drainage systems, utility enclosures and modular precast structures which are typically supplied to the water, energy, telecommunications and railroad markets. The businesses also provide a range of engineered steel and polymer-based anchoring, fixing and connecting solutions for a variety of new-build construction applications. CRH s Outdoor Living Solutions businesses manufactures a variety of concrete masonry, hardscape and related products including pavers, blocks and curbs, retaining walls and slabs. The businesses also produces fencing and railing systems, composite decking, lawn and garden products and packaged concrete mixes. These products are supplied to residential, commercial do-it-yourself (DIY) construction markets. Key Trends and Opportunities Key trends affecting the development of CRH's business include: Population growth and urbanization driving increasing demand for construction; Economic development and further investment in infrastructure, commercial and residential projects; and Recurring need to repair, maintain and upgrade the built environment as existing buildings and infrastructure age and wear. In addition, there are several industry-specific trends that are shaping how CRH evolves to meet the needs of its customers: Unprecedented levels of funding support for infrastructure, critical utilities and the onshoring of manufacturing activity; An evolving regulatory landscape driving increasing customer demand for innovative, end-to-end solutions to deliver a more resilient and sustainable built environment; and Supply-side dynamics, such as labor constraints, driving increasing investment in automation, technology and digital solutions. Environmental and Governmental Regulations Our operations in the United States are subject to federal, state and local laws, while our European operations are primarily subject to national environmental laws and regulations stemming primarily from EU directives and regulations. Our operations elsewhere are typically subject to both national and local regulatory requirements. Compliance and Costs Compliance with applicable regulations requires capital investment and ongoing expenditures for the operation and maintenance of systems and implementation of improvement programs. These include investments in licensing, permitting and monitoring, waste and water mana