Item 1. Business General This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expect, anticipate, target, goal, project, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, will, likely, may, designed, would, future, can, could and other similar expressions that are predictions, indicate future events and trends or which do not relate to historical matters are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: trends in our business and industry; goodwill and asset impairments still under review; future demand for drug discovery and development products and services, including the outsourcing of these services; our expectations regarding stock repurchases, including the number of shares to be repurchased, expected timing and duration, the amount of capital that may be expended and the treatment of repurchased shares; present spending trends and other cost reduction activities by our clients; future actions by our management; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy, business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; our strategic relationships with leading pharmaceutical companies and venture capital limited partnerships, and opportunities for future similar arrangements; our cost structure; the impact of completed acquisitions; our expectations with respect to revenue growth and operating synergies (including the impact of specific actions intended to cause related improvements); the impact of specific actions intended to improve overall operating efficiencies and profitability (and our ability to accommodate future demand with our infrastructure), including gains and losses attributable to businesses we plan to close, consolidate or divest; changes in our expectations regarding future stock option, restricted stock, performance share units and other equity grants to employees and directors; expectations with respect to foreign currency exchange; assessing (or changing our assessment of) our tax positions for financial statement purposes; and our liquidity. In addition, these statements include the impact of economic and market conditions on us and our clients, the effects of our cost-saving actions and the steps to optimize returns to shareholders on an effective and timely basis. Forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or, in the case of statements incorporated by reference, on the date of the document incorporated by reference. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in this Form 10-K under the sections entitled Our Strategy, Risk Factors, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our press releases and other financial filings with the SEC. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks. New information, future events or risks may cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this report not to occur. Corporate History We began operating in 1947 and, since then, we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 and we completed our initial public offering in 2000. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CRL and is included in the Standard Poor s 1000, MidCap 400 and Composite 1500 indices, the Dow Jones U.S. Health Care Index, the NYSE Arca Biotechnology Index, the NYSE Composite and many of the Russell indices, among others. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA, 01887, and the telephone number at that location is (781) 222-6000. Our Internet site is www.criver.com. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to Charles River, we, us, the Company or our refer to Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries. This Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the SEC, is available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet site (www.criver.com) as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 1 Overview We are a full service, early-stage contract research organization (CRO). We have built upon our original core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse portfolio of discovery and safety assessment services, both Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and non-GLP, which is able to support our clients from target identification through non-clinical development. We also provide a suite of products and services to support our clients manufacturing activities. Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to create a more flexible drug development model, which reduces their costs, enhances their productivity and effectiveness and increases speed to market. The development of new drugs requires a steadily increasing investment of time and money. Various studies and reports estimate that it takes between 10 to 15 years, up to $2.0 billion excluding time costs and exploration of between 10,000 and 15,000 drug molecules to produce a single Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug. Discovery represents the earliest stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification, screening, and selection of a lead molecule for future drug development. Discovery activities typically extend anywhere from 4 to 6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development (R D) timelines. Development activities, which follow, and which can take up to 7 to 10 years, are directed at demonstrating the safety, tolerability and clinical efficacy of the selected drug candidates. During the non-clinical stage of the development process, a drug candidate is tested in vitro (non-animal, typically on a cellular or sub-cellular level in a test tube or multi-well petri plate) and in vivo (in research models) to establish drug safety prior to and in support of human clinical trials. For over 70 years, we have been in the business of providing the research models required in the research and development of new drugs, devices and therapies. Over this time, we have built upon our core competency of in vivo biology to develop a diverse and expanding portfolio of products and services, which now encompasses the broader early-stage drug research process. We are positioned to leverage our leading portfolio in early-stage drug research in an efficient and cost-effective way to aid our clients in bringing their drugs to market faster. Our client base includes global pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of biotechnology companies, and many government agencies, hospitals and academic institutions around the world. In recent years, we have focused our efforts on improving the efficiency of our global operations to enhance our ability to support our clients. Our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients are increasingly seeking full service, one-stop global partners to whom they can outsource more of their drug discovery and development efforts. It is estimated that the market for regulated safety assessment services is over 55% outsourced, while emerging growth areas such as discovery and certain research model services are currently believed to be less outsourced. We currently operate in over 90 facilities and in over 20 countries worldwide (excluding our Insourcing Solutions sites). Our products and services, supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our clients to overcome many of the challenges of early-stage life sciences research. In 2019 , our total revenue was $2.6 billion and our operating income from continuing operations, before income taxes, was $304.1 million . We have three reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS), Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA) and Manufacturing Support (Manufacturing). Through our RMS segment, we have been supplying research models to the drug development industry since 1947. With over 150 different stocks and strains, we continue to maintain our position as a global leader in the production and sale of the most widely used rodent research model strains and purpose-bred rats and mice. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to support our clients in the use of research models in drug discovery and development. We maintain multiple production centers, including barrier rooms and/or isolator facilities, on three continents (North America, Europe, and Asia). In 2019 , RMS accounted for 20.5% of our total revenue and approximately 3,600 of our employees, including approximately 170 science professionals with advanced degrees. In addition, in January 2020, we acquired HemaCare Corporation (HemaCare), a leading global provider of human-derived cellular materials used in the development and production of cell therapies, as part of our Research Products business. Our DSA business segment provides services that enable our clients to outsource their innovative drug discovery research, their related drug development activities, and their regulatory-required safety testing of potential new drugs, industrial and agricultural chemicals, consumer products, veterinary medicines and medical devices. The demand for these services is driven by the needs of large global pharmaceutical companies that have exceeded their internal capacity or that continue to transition to an outsourced drug development model, as well as by the needs of small biotechnology companies, chemical companies and non-governmental organizations that rely on outsourcing for most of their discovery, development and safety testing programs. These entities may choose to outsource their discovery, development and safety activities to reduce fixed costs and to gain 2 access to additional scientific expertise and capabilities. We are the largest provider of drug discovery, non-clinical development and safety testing services worldwide. We have extensive expertise in the discovery of clinical candidates and in the design, execution and reporting of safety assessment studies for numerous types of compounds including small and large molecule pharmaceuticals, industrial and agricultural chemicals, consumer products, veterinary medicines, cell and gene therapies, biocides and medical devices. We currently provide discovery and safety assessment services at multiple facilities located in the United States (U.S.), Canada, and Europe. In 2019 , our DSA segment represented 61.8% of our total revenue and employed approximately 10,900 of our employees including approximately 1,500 science professionals with advanced degrees. Through our Manufacturing segment, we help ensure the safe production and release of products manufactured by our clients. Our Manufacturing Segment is comprised of three businesses: Microbial Solutions, Biologics Testing Solutions and Avian Vaccine Services. Our Microbial Solutions products and services businesses provide in vitro methods for conventional and rapid quality control testing of sterile and non-sterile pharmaceuticals and consumer products. Our Biologics Testing Solutions business provides specialized testing of biologics frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our Avian Vaccine Services business provides specific-pathogen-free (SPF) fertile chicken eggs, SPF chickens and diagnostic products used to manufacture vaccines. In 2019 , Manufacturing accounted for 17.7% of our total revenue from continuing operations and approximately 1,900 of our employees, including approximately 150 science professionals with advanced degrees. Research Models and Services . Our RMS segment is comprised of three businesses: Research Models, Research Model Services and Research Products . Research Models . Our Research Models business is comprised of the production and sale of research models. A significant portion of this business involves the commercial production and sale of research models, principally purpose-bred rats and mice for use by researchers. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies typically require that the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process. We provide our rodent models to numerous clients around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of biotechnology companies, other contract research organizations and many government agencies, hospitals, and academic institutions. We have a global footprint with production facilities strategically located in 8 countries, in close proximity to our clients. Our research models include commonly used laboratory strains, disease models and specialized strains with compromised immune systems, which are in demand as early-stage tools in the drug discovery and development process. Our rodent species have been, and continue to be, some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of our geographic footprint and continuous commitment to innovation and quality. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments, which are designed to ensure that the models are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort scientific results. With our production capabilities, we are able to deliver consistently high-quality research models worldwide. Our research models include: inbred, which are bred to be homogeneous; hybrid, which are the offspring of parents from two different genotypes; outbred, which are purposefully bred for heterogeneity; spontaneous mutant, whose genotype results in a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and other genetically modified research models, such as knock-out models with one or more disabled genes and transgenic models. Certain of our research models are proprietary rodent models used to research treatments in several therapeutic areas, such as diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular, cancer, central nervous system (CNS) and kidney disease. We are also a premier provider of high quality, purpose bred, SPF large research models to the biomedical research community. Research Model Services. RMS offers a variety of services designed to support our clients' use of research models in basic research and screening non-clinical drug candidates. These services address the need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology 3 companies to outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. Our services include those related to the maintenance and monitoring of research models, and managing research operations for government entities, academic organizations, and commercial clients. We currently have three service offerings in research models services: Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS), Insourcing Solutions and Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS). Genetically Engineered Models and Services . We create, breed and maintain research models required by our clients for biomedical research activities. The creation of a genetically engineered model (GEM) is a critical scientific event, but it is only the first step in the discovery process, and our scientists can advise clients on how to efficiently create custom models utilizing in-licensed technologies and approaches to modify the genome. Through our phenotyping platforms, we can also design and conduct the relevant studies and tests allowing characterization of the generated models. Productive utilization of GEMs requires significant additional technical expertise in order to properly support basic and early discovery research. We provide breeding expertise and colony development, quarantine, health and genetic testing and monitoring, germplasm cryopreservation and rederivation, including assisted reproduction and model creation. Our team of project managers is supported by a proprietary, technologically advanced Internet Colony Management (ICM ) system that allows for real-time data exchange. We provide these services to clients around the world, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, hospitals, universities, and government agencies. Insourcing Solutions . We manage the research operations of government entities, academic organizations and commercial clients (including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) in our clients facilities utilizing our Charles River Accelerator and Development Lab (CRADL ) option, in which we lease space to our clients. Some research institutions prefer to retain certain elements of their research in-house, while outsourcing staffing and management, thus driving demand for our services. We believe that our expertise in early-stage drug research, and in particular research model care, scientific and technical support, facility operations, and discovery and development services, enhances the productivity and quality of our clients research programs. Research Animal Diagnostic Services . We monitor and analyze the health profiles of our clients research models and research biologics by providing infectious agents and pathology assessment. We developed this capability internally to address the quality control of our research model business. We can serve as our clients sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting our clients internal laboratory capabilities. We believe we are the reference laboratory of choice for health assessment of laboratory research models and an industry leader in the field of laboratory animal diagnostics. Research Products . In January 2020, we acquired HemaCare, a leading global provider of human-derived cellular materials used in the development of production of cell therapies, as part of our Research Products business. The business supplies controlled, consistent, customized primary cells and blood components derived from normal and mobilized peripheral blood, bone marrow, and cord blood. Research Products supports biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions and other research organizations who rely on high-quality, viable and functional human primary cells and blood components for biomedical and drug discovery research and cell therapy development. Discovery and Safety Assessment Our DSA segment is comprised of two businesses: Discovery Services and Safety Assessment. We currently offer regulated and non-regulated DSA services, including in vitro and in vivo studies, laboratory support services, and strategic non-clinical consulting and program management to support product development. Discovery Services . We offer a full spectrum of discovery services from identification and validation of novel targets and chemical compounds with actual or potential intellectual property value through delivery of non-clinical drug and therapeutic candidates ready for safety assessment. Our Discovery Services include Early Discovery, In Vitro Discovery and In Vivo Discovery businesses to streamline and enhance the integrated support we can provide for clients integrated drug discovery programs. This seamless discovery organization also allows us to better engage with clients at any stage of their drug discovery and support their complex scientific needs. Our discovery services business unit focuses on several therapeutic areas, including oncology, CNS, immunology, inflammation and metabolic diseases. We also provide expertise in the growing area of rare and orphan diseases, which are typically diseases of high unmet medical need in smaller patient populations. We believe there are emerging opportunities to assist our clients in a variety of drug discovery applications and platforms from target discovery to candidate selection and across a range of modalities, including small molecules and large molecules (including oligonucleotides, antibodies, proteins) and cell and gene therapy drug candidates. Early Discovery. We are a global leader in integrated drug discovery services, with a predominant focus on the integration of in vitro biology, medicinal chemistry and in vivo pharmacology capabilities. Our full suite of service offerings, together with our knowledge and expertise, allows us to support our clients at the earliest stages of their research, including the design and 4 implementations of their research programs, and to stay with them through the entire drug discovery process. Our Early Discovery service capabilities include: target discovery and validation; hit identification and optimization to deliver candidate molecules; early nonclinical pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies, transporter-mediated drug-drug interaction, and in vitro and in vivo assays to assess mechanism, bioavailability and metabolism as required for regulatory approval of new drugs; and target engagement biomarker development to support non-clinical and potentially downstream clinical studies. Additionally, we offer ion channel and drug transporter testing for both discovery and non-clinical purposes, as well as genome editing services. We provide many of these services at our clients laboratories with Charles River scientists as part of an insourcing service model. Through strategic partnerships we also offer an ultra-high throughput screening laboratory, a human antibody discovery and development platform, an artificial intelligence drug design platform and a human stem cell model platform. In Vivo Discovery Services . In Vivo Discovery Services are essential in early stage, non-clinical discovery research, and are directed at the identification, screening, optimization and selection of effective therapeutic agents for drug development. These in vivo activities typically extend anywhere from 2 to 4 years in conventional pharmaceutical R D timelines. We offer R D expertise, capabilities and services globally to accelerate our clients drug discovery pipelines from lead generation to candidate selection and on occasion, complete in vivo studies in support of clinical efforts or post-marketing work. We complement and extend clients capabilities and expertise to improve their decision-making, increase their flexibility, and reduce their internal costs and product development timelines. In addition, we provide in vitro assays in support of lead optimization to candidate selection activities. Examples of this include early pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies and in vitro and in vivo assays to assess mechanism, bioavailability, metabolism, efficacy, pharmacology and safety. In recent years, we have made key acquisitions designed to augment our Discovery Services offerings, including businesses that provide critical data to advance novel therapeutics for the treatment of CNS diseases, immune (including oncology), inflammatory and infectious diseases, as well as drug transporter assays and kits. Safety Assessment . We offer a full range of safety assessment studies required for regulatory submission on a global basis. Our safety assessment business also provides expertise in several therapeutic areas, including respiratory, fibrotic, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, genitourinary diseases, anti-infectives and ophthalmology indications, as well as the development of surgically implanted medical devices. Bioanalysis, Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics . In support of non-clinical drug safety testing and new chemical development, our clients are required to demonstrate appropriate stability in the collected biological sample, pharmacokinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the presence of metabolites and, in the case of biologics, the presence or absence of anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific expertise in the sophisticated bioanalytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for many drugs and chemicals. Once analysis is complete, our scientists evaluate the data to provide information on the pharmacokinetics and/or toxicokinetics of the drug or chemical and complete an evaluation of the biologic disposition of the drug or chemical and its potential metabolites. Pharmacokinetics refers to the understanding of what the body does to a drug or compound administered at therapeutic dose levels, including the process by which the drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, metabolized and excreted. Toxicokinetics refers to the same understanding as applied at higher doses that may result in adverse effects. These studies are required for the full non-clinical assessment of the disposition of the drug or chemical and the results are used in the safety evaluation of the compound. After performing sample analysis in support of non-clinical studies, we also support the clinical bioanalysis required in clinical trials for drug development. Safety Pharmacology. Our clients are also required to conduct an assessment of Safety Pharmacology. This suite of studies is used to determine any effects on the vital organ systems of the body - cardiovascular, respiratory and CNS. Along with heart rate and blood pressure measurements, the cardiovascular assessment will also assess if the test article has the potential to alter cardiac ion channel currents and prolong the cardiac QT interval of the electrocardiogram. Additionally, effects on the central nervous system (CNS) and respiratory systems are assessed to complete the battery of studies to evaluate the vital organ systems of the body. Supplemental studies can also be performed to assess the renal, gastrointestinal and autonomic nervous systems, as well as, dependency potential. We have assays (both in vitro and in vivo ) and can perform the screening prior to the 5 commencement of first-in-human clinical trials. Our capabilities can also be used to investigate the mode of action behind an adverse effect found in a safety assessment study . Toxicology. We have expertise in the design and execution of development programs in support of a broad diversity of therapeutic modalities, including small organics, peptides, proteins, oligonucleotides, antibody-based platforms, and many other innovative pharmaceutical products. We also support safety studies to test industrial chemical, agrochemicals, consumer products, veterinary medicines and medical devices. For human pharmaceutical candidates, once a lead molecule is selected, toxicology studies are required to support clinical trials in humans and for new drug registration. These toxicology studies focus on assessing the safety of the potential therapeutic to determine if administration to humans might cause any unintended harmful effects. For new chemicals, industrial chemicals, agrochemicals and medical devices, safety studies are performed to identify potential hazards to humans and the environment and are required for regulatory registration. Toxicology studies performed for any of these compounds are typically performed using in vitro and in vivo research models to identify any potential adverse effects that a compound has on an organism over a variety of doses and over various time periods of exposure. Our toxicology services feature: a broad offering of in vitro and in vivo capabilities and study types designed to identify possible safety risks; a broad offering of in vitro and in vivo studies in support of general toxicology (acute, sub-acute and chronic studies), genetic toxicology, safety pharmacology and carcinogenicity bioassays that are required for regulatory submissions supporting first-in-human to first-to-the-market strategies for potential human therapeutics; a broad offering of in vitro and in vivo studies in support of general toxicology (acute, sub-acute and chronic studies), genetic toxicology, reproductive and developmental toxicology, environmental toxicology and carcinogenicity bioassays that are required for regulatory submissions supporting the registration of industrial chemicals, agrochemicals and biocides; expertise in standard and specialty routes of administration (e.g., infusion, intravitreal, intrathecal and inhalation) that are important not only for the testing of potential pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals, but also for the safety testing of medical devices, nutraceuticals, animal health products and other materials; expertise in the conduct and assessment of reproductive, developmental and juvenile toxicology studies (in support of larger-scale and later-stage human clinical trials or chemical registration); expertise in environmental toxicology (aqua