Item 1. Business General This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expect, anticipate, target, goal, project, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, will, likely, may, designed, would, future, can, could and other similar expressions, which are predictions of, indicate future events and trends or which do not relate to historical matters are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: the COVID-19 pandemic, its duration, its impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, use of our borrowings, business practices, operations, suppliers, inventory and supplies, third party service providers, customers, employees, industry, ability to meet future performance obligations, ability to timely account for assets on our balance sheet, ability to efficiently implement advisable safety precautions, and internal controls over financial reporting; the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on demand, the global economy and financial markets, changes and uncertainties in the global economy; client demand, particularly future demand for drug discovery and development products and services, including the outsourcing of these services; our expectations regarding stock repurchases, including the number of shares to be repurchased, expected timing and duration, the amount of capital that may be expended and the treatment of repurchased shares; our ability to successfully execute our business strategy; our ability to timely build infrastructure to satisfy capacity needs and support business growth, our ability to fund our operations for the foreseeable future, the impact of unauthorized access into our information systems, including the timing and effectiveness of any enhanced security and monitoring present spending trends and other cost reduction activities by our clients; future actions by our management; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy, business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; our strategic relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, venture capital investments, and opportunities for future similar arrangements; our cost structure; the impact of acquisitions and divestitures; our expectations with respect to revenue growth and operating synergies (including the impact of specific actions intended to cause related improvements); the impact of specific actions intended to improve overall operating efficiencies and profitability (and our ability to accommodate future demand with our infrastructure), including gains and losses attributable to businesses we plan to close, consolidate, divest or repurpose; changes in our expectations regarding future stock option, restricted stock, performance share units and other equity grants to employees and directors; expectations with respect to foreign currency exchange; assessing (or changing our assessment of) our tax positions for financial statement purposes; and our liquidity. In addition, these statements include the impact of economic and market conditions on us and our clients, the effects of our cost-saving actions and the steps to optimize returns to shareholders on an effective and timely basis; and our ability to withstand the current market conditions. Forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or, in the case of statements incorporated by reference, on the date of the document incorporated by reference. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K under the sections entitled Our Strategy, Risk Factors, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in our press releases and other financial filings with the SEC. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks. New information, future events or risks may cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this report not to occur. Corporate History We began operating in 1947 and, since then, have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994 and we completed our initial public offering in 2000. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CRL and is included in the Standard Poor s 500 and Composite 1500 indices, the Dow Jones U.S. Health Care Index, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Arca Biotechnology Index, the NYSE Composite and many of the Russell indices, among others. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA, 01887, and the telephone number at that location is (781) 222-6000. Our Internet site is www.criver.com. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to Charles River, we, us, the Company or our refer to Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 1 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. This Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the SEC, is available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet site (www.criver.com) as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Overview We are a full service, non-clinical contract research organization (CRO). We have built upon our original core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse portfolio of discovery and safety assessment services, both Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and non-GLP, which is able to support our clients from target identification through non-clinical development. We also provide a suite of products and services to support our clients manufacturing activities, including our newly acquired contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) business. Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to create a more flexible drug development model, which reduces their costs, enhances their productivity and effectiveness, and increases speed to market. The development of new drugs requires a steadily increasing investment of time and money. Various studies and reports estimate that it takes between 10 to 15 years, up to $2.5 billion excluding time costs and exploration of between 10,000 and 15,000 drug molecules to produce a single Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug. Discovery represents the earliest stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification, screening, and selection of a lead molecule for future drug development. Discovery activities typically extend anywhere from 4 to 6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development (R D) timelines. Development activities, which follow, and which can take up to 7 to 10 years, are directed at demonstrating the safety, tolerability and clinical efficacy of the selected drug candidates. During the non-clinical stage of the development process, a drug candidate is tested in vitro (non-animal, typically on a cellular or sub-cellular level in a test tube or multi-well petri plate) and in vivo (in research models) to establish drug safety prior to and in support of human clinical trials. For 75 years, we have been in the business of providing the research models required in the research and development of new drugs, devices and therapies. Over this time, we have built upon our core competency of in vivo biology to develop a diverse and expanding portfolio of products and services, which now encompasses the broader non-clinical drug research process. We are positioned to leverage our leading portfolio in non-clinical drug research in an efficient and cost-effective way to aid our clients in bringing their drugs to market faster. Our client base includes global pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of biotechnology companies, and many government agencies, hospitals and academic institutions around the world. In recent years, we have focused our efforts on improving the efficiency of our global operations to enhance our ability to support our clients. Our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients are increasingly seeking full service, one-stop global partners to whom they can outsource more of their drug discovery and development efforts. It is estimated that the market for regulated safety assessment services is 60% outsourced or more, while emerging growth areas such as discovery and certain research model services are currently believed to be less outsourced. We currently operate in over 110 locations and in over 20 countries worldwide (excluding our Insourcing Solutions sites). Our products and services, supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our clients to overcome many of the challenges of non-clinical life sciences research. In 2021, our total revenue was $3.5 billion and our income before income taxes, was $480.7 million. We have three reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS), Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA) and Manufacturing Solutions (Manufacturing). Through our RMS segment, we have supplied research models to the drug development industry since 1947. With over 160 different stocks and strains, we continue to maintain our position as a global leader in the production and sale of the most widely used rodent research model strains and purpose-bred rats and mice. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to support our clients in the use of research models in drug discovery and development. We maintain multiple production centers, including barrier rooms and isolator facilities, on three continents (North America, Europe, and Asia). In 2021, RMS accounted for 19.5% of our total revenue and approximately 3,900 of our employees, including approximately 190 science professionals with advanced degrees. Our DSA business segment provides services that enable our clients to outsource their innovative drug discovery research, their related drug development activities, and their regulatory-required safety testing of potential new drugs, vaccines, industrial and agricultural chemicals, consumer products, veterinary medicines and medical devices. The demand for these services is driven by the needs of large global pharmaceutical companies that continue to transition to an outsourced drug development model, as well as by the needs of mid-size and emerging biotechnology companies, industrial and agrochemical companies and non-governmental organizations that rely on outsourcing. These entities may choose to outsource their discovery, development and safety activities to reduce fixed costs and to gain access to additional scientific expertise and capabilities. In fiscal 2021, we 2 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. acquired Distributed Bio, Inc. (Distributed Bio), a next-generation antibody discovery company with technologies specializing in enhancing the probability of success for delivering high-quality, readily formattable antibody fragments to support antibody and cell and gene therapy candidates to biopharmaceutical clients, as well as Retrogenix Limited (Retrogenix), an early-stage contract research organization providing specialized bioanalytical services for antibodies and related therapeutic products utilizing its proprietary cell microarray technology to identify potential interactions with a host of cell surface and secreted proteins. We are the largest provider of drug discovery, non-clinical development and safety testing services worldwide. We have extensive expertise in the discovery of clinical candidates and in the design, execution and reporting of safety assessment studies for numerous types of compounds including small and large molecule pharmaceuticals, industrial and agricultural chemicals, vaccines, consumer products, veterinary medicines, cell and gene therapies, biocides and medical devices. We currently provide discovery and safety assessment services at multiple facilities located in the United States (U.S.), Canada, and Europe. In 2021, our DSA segment represented 59.5% of our total revenue and employed approximately 12,400 of our employees including approximately 1,600 science professionals with advanced degrees. Within our Manufacturing segment, we work with our clients and the biopharmaceutical industry to ensure the safe production and release of products manufactured both by our clients and, with the acquisition of our CDMO services, internally for our clients. Our Manufacturing Segment is comprised of three businesses: Microbial Solutions, Biologics Solutions, and Avian Vaccine Services. Our Microbial Solutions products and services businesses provide in vitro methods for conventional and rapid quality control testing of sterile and non-sterile pharmaceuticals and consumer products. Our Biologics Testing Solutions business provides specialized testing of biologics frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In 2021 we added CDMO services to our Biologics Solutions business through the acquisitions of Cognate BioServices, Inc. and Vigene Biosciences, Inc. (Vigene). Our Avian Vaccine Services business provides specific-pathogen-free (SPF) fertile chicken eggs, SPF chickens and diagnostic products used to manufacture vaccines, principally veterinary vaccines. In 2021, Manufacturing accounted for 21.0% of our total revenue from continuing operations and approximately 2,900 of our employees, including approximately 290 science professionals with advanced degrees. Research Models and Services . Our RMS segment is comprised of three businesses: Research Models, Research Model Services and Research and GMP-Compliant Cells. Research Models . Our Research Models business is comprised of the production and sale of research models. A significant portion of this business involves the commercial production and sale of research models, principally purpose-bred rats and mice for use by researchers. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies typically require that the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process. We provide our research models to numerous clients around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of biotechnology companies, other contract research organizations and many government agencies, hospitals, and academic institutions. We have a global footprint with production facilities strategically located in 7 countries, in close proximity to our clients. Our research models include commonly used laboratory strains, disease models and specialized strains with compromised immune systems, which are in demand as early-stage tools in the drug discovery and development process. The research models we supply have been, and continue to be, some of the most extensively used in the world, largely as a result of our geographic footprint and continuous commitment to innovation and quality. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments, which are designed to ensure that the models are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort scientific results. With our production capabilities, we are able to deliver consistently high-quality research models worldwide. Our research models include: inbred, which are bred to be homogeneous; hybrid, which are the offspring of parents from two different genotypes; outbred, which are purposefully bred for heterogeneity; spontaneous mutant, whose genotype results in a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and other genetically modified research models, such as knock-out models with one or more disabled genes and transgenic models. Certain of our research models are proprietary rodent models used to research treatments in several therapeutic areas. We are also a premier provider of high quality, purpose bred, SPF large research models to the biomedical research community. 3 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Research Model Services. RMS offers a variety of services designed to support our clients' use of research models in basic research and screening non-clinical drug candidates. These services address the need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. Our services include those related to the maintenance and monitoring of research models, and managing research operations for government entities, academic organizations, and commercial clients. We currently have three service offerings in research models services: Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS), Insourcing Solutions and Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS). Genetically Engineered Models and Services . We create, breed and maintain research models required by our clients for biomedical research activities. The creation of a genetically engineered model (GEM) is a critical scientific event, but it is only the first step in the discovery process, and our scientists can advise clients on how to efficiently create custom models utilizing in-licensed technologies and approaches to modify the genome. Through our phenotyping platforms, we can also design and conduct the relevant studies and tests allowing characterization of the generated models. Productive utilization of GEMs requires significant additional technical expertise in order to properly support basic and early discovery research. We provide breeding expertise and colony expansion, quarantine, health and genetic testing and monitoring, germplasm cryopreservation and rederivation, including assisted reproduction and model creation. Our team of project managers is supported by a proprietary, technologically advanced Internet Colony Management (ICM ) system that allows for real-time data exchange. We provide these services to clients around the world, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, hospitals, universities, and government agencies. Insourcing Solutions . We manage the research operations of government entities, academic organizations and commercial clients (including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) both within our clients facilities and utilizing our Charles River Accelerator and Development Lab (CRADL ) option, in which we lease space to our clients. Some research institutions prefer to retain certain elements of their research in-house, while outsourcing staffing and management, thus driving demand for our services. We believe that our expertise in early-stage drug research, and in particular research model care, scientific and technical support, facility operations, and discovery and development services, enhances the productivity and quality of our clients research programs. Research Animal Diagnostic Services . We monitor and analyze the health profiles of our clients research models and research biologics by assessing infectious agents and pathology. We developed this capability internally to address the quality control of our research model business. We can serve as our clients sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting our clients internal laboratory capabilities. We believe we are the reference laboratory of choice for health assessment of laboratory research models and an industry leader in the field of laboratory animal diagnostics. Research and GMP-Compliant Cells . Our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells business provides human-derived cellular materials used in the development and production of cell therapies. The business supplies controlled, consistent, customized primary cells and blood components derived from normal and mobilized peripheral blood, bone marrow, and cord blood. Research and GMP-Compliant Cells supports biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions and other research organizations who rely on high-quality, viable and functional human primary cells and blood components for biomedical and drug discovery research and cell therapy development. In 2020 we acquired HemaCare Corporation (HemaCare) and Cellero, LLC (Cellero) to establish our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells business. Discovery and Safety Assessment Our DSA segment is comprised of two businesses: Discovery Services and Safety Assessment. We currently offer regulated and non-regulated DSA services, including therapeutic discovery and optimization plus in vitro and in vivo studies, laboratory support services, and strategic non-clinical consulting and program management to support product development. Discovery Services . We offer a full spectrum of discovery services from identification and validation of novel targets, chemical compounds and antibodies with actual or potential intellectual property value through to delivery of non-clinical drug and therapeutic candidates ready for safety assessment. Our Discovery Services business includes Early Discovery and In Vivo and In Vitro Discovery businesses to streamline and enhance the integrated support we can provide for clients drug discovery programs. This seamless discovery organization allows us to better engage with clients at any stage of their drug discovery programs and support their complex scientific needs. Our Discovery Services business focuses on all of the major therapeutic areas, with a strategic focus on oncology, immunology and neuroscience. We believe there are growing opportunities to assist our clients in a variety of drug discovery applications and platforms from target discovery to candidate selection and across the full range of modalities, including small molecules and large molecules and cell and gene therapy candidates. On December 31, 2020, we acquired Distributed Bio, a next-generation antibody discovery company with technologies specializing in enhancing the probability of success for delivering high-quality, readily formattable antibody fragments to support antibody and cell and gene therapy candidates to biopharmaceutical clients. The acquisition of Distributed Bio expands our capabilities with an innovative, antibody discovery platform, and leveraging their antibody libraries and immune-engineering platform, creates an integrated, end-to-end platform for therapeutic antibody and cell and gene therapy discovery and development. In April 2021, we acquired Retrogenix, an early-stage contract research organization providing specialized bioanalytical services utilizing its 4 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. proprietary cell microarray technology analytical platform, which provides on target and off target safety assessment of antibodies and related modalities. The acquisition of Retrogenix enhances our scientific expertise with additional large molecule and cell therapy discovery capabilities. Early Discovery. We are a global leader in integrated drug discovery services. Our full suite of service offerings, together with our knowledge and expertise, allows us to support our clients at the earliest stages of their research, including the design and implementations of their research programs, and to stay with them through the entire drug discovery process. Our Early Discovery service capabilities include: target discovery and validation; target deconvolution through proteomics; hit identification and optimization to deliver candidate molecules, including computer-aided drug design; early nonclinical pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies, transporter-mediated drug-drug interaction, and in vitro and in vivo assays to assess mechanism, bioavailability and metabolism as required for regulatory approval of new drugs; and target engagement biomarker development to support non-clinical and potentially downstream clinical studies. Additionally, we offer ion channel and drug transporter testing for both discovery and non-clinical purposes, as well as genome editing services. We also provide these services at our clients laboratories with Charles River scientists as part of an insourcing service model. Through strategic partnerships, we also offer an artificial intelligence drug design platform, 3D in vitro oncology models, implantable micro device in animal tumor models to investigate pharmacological effects of multiple substances simultaneously and a human stem cell model platform. In Vivo and In Vitro Discovery Services . In vivo Discovery Services are essential in early stage, non-clinical discovery research, and are directed at the identification, screening, optimization and selection of effective therapeutic agents in pharmacology models. These in vivo activities typically extend anywhere from 1 to 3 years in conventional pharmaceutical R D timelines. Our offerings include businesses that provide critical data to advance novel therapeutics, as well as drug transporter assays and kits. We offer R D expertise, capabilities and services globally to accelerate our clients drug discovery pipelines from lead generation to candidate selection. We complement and extend clients capabilities and expertise to improve their decision-making, increase their flexibility, and reduce their internal costs and product development timelines. In addition, we provide a growing portfolio of in vitro assays in support of lead optimization to candidate selection activities. Examples of this include early pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies and in vitro assays to assess mechanism, bioavailability, metabolism, efficacy, pharmacology and safety. Through strategic technology partnerships, we also offer artificial intelligence-enabled drug design and multiple advanced biology analytics platforms, both in vivo and in vitro , that address human and disease translatability. Safety Assessment . We offer a full range of safety assessment studies required for regulatory submission on a global basis in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, industrial chemical, agrochemicals, consumer products, veterinary medicines and medical devices industries. Our safety assessment business also provides expertise in a variety of therapeutic areas, as well as the development of surgically implanted medical devices. Toxicology. We offer a broad offering of in vitro and in vivo capabilities and study types designed to identify possible safety risks as well as a broad offering of in vitro and in vivo studies in support of general toxicology (acute, sub-acute and chronic studies), genetic toxicology, safety pharmacology, reproductive and developmental toxicology, juvenile toxicology, and carcinogenicity bioassays that are required for regulatory submissions supporting first-in-human to first-to-the-market strategies for potential human therapeutics. Additionally, we can support safety studies in numerous specialty areas including abuse and seizure liability, ecotoxicology, environmental risk, musculoskeletal toxicology, neurotoxicology, ocular toxicology, phototoxicology and radiation biology. We have expertise in the design and execution of development programs in support of a broad diversity of therapeutic modalities in numerous laboratory species and test systems. We also support safety studies to test industrial chemical, agrochemicals, consumer products, veterinary medicines and medical devices. For human pharmaceutical candidates, once a lead candidate is selected, toxicology studies are required to support clinical trials in humans and for regulatory approval. These toxicology studies focus on assessing the safety of the potential therapeutic to determine if administration to humans might cause any unintended harmful effects. For new chemicals, industrial chemicals, agrochemicals, veterinary medicines, consumer products and medical devices, safety studies are performed to identify potential hazards to humans and the environment and are required for regulatory registration. Toxicology studies performed for any of these compounds are typically performed using in vitro and in vivo research models to identify any potential adverse effects that a compound has on an organism over a variety of doses and over various time periods of exposure. 5 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Pathology Services. The ability to identify and characterize clinical and anatomic pathologic changes is critical in determining the safety and efficacy of potential new therapeutics, industrial and agricultural chemicals, veterinary medicines, and medical devices. Key go/no-go decisions regarding