Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 46 Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 97 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 97 Item 9B. Other Information 98 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 99 Item 11. Executive Compensation 99 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 99 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 99 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 99 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 100 Item 16. 10-K Summary 100 Index to Exhibits 101 Signatures 104 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ( Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( Exchange Act ). Words such as expects, anticipates, aims, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, seeks, assumes, may, should, could, would, foresees, forecasts, predicts, targets, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, which may consist of, among other things, trend analyses and statements regarding future events, future financial performance, anticipated growth and industry prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates and forecasts, as well as the beliefs and assumptions of our management, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, including: our service performance and security, including the resources and costs required to avoid unanticipated downtime and prevent, detect and remediate potential security breaches; the expenses associated with our data centers and third-party infrastructure providers; additional data center capacity; our reliance on third-party hardware, software and platform providers; the effect of evolving domestic and foreign government regulations, including those related to the provision of services on the Internet, those related to accessing the Internet, and those addressing data privacy, cross-border data transfers and import and export controls; new services and product features, including any efforts to expand our services beyond the CRM market; our strategy of acquiring or making investments in complementary businesses, joint ventures, services, technologies and intellectual property rights; our ability to realize the benefits from strategic partnerships, joint ventures and investments; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies; the competitive nature of the market in which we participate; our business strategy and our plan to build our business, including our strategy to be the leading provider of enterprise cloud computing applications and platforms; our ability to execute our business plans; our ability to continue to grow unearned revenue and remaining performance obligation; the pace of change and innovation in enterprise cloud computing services; the seasonal nature of our sales cycles; our attrition; our international expansion strategy; the demands on our personnel and infrastructure resulting from significant growth in our customer base and operations, including as a result of acquisitions; our dependency on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet; real estate and office facilities space; our operating results and cash flows; the performance and fair value of our investments in complementary businesses through our strategic investment portfolio; the impact of future gains or losses from our strategic investment portfolio including gains or losses from overall market conditions that may affect the publicly traded companies within our strategic investment portfolio; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to develop our brands; the impact of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations on our results; the valuation of our deferred tax assets and the release of related valuation allowances; the potential availability of additional tax assets in the future; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and tax laws; uncertainties affecting our ability to estimate our tax rate; uncertainties regarding our tax obligations in connection with potential jurisdictional transfers of intellectual property, including the tax rate, the timing of the transfer and the value of such transferred intellectual property; the effect of general economic and market conditions; the impact of geopolitical events; the impact of expensing stock options and other equity awards; the sufficiency of our capital resources; factors related to our 2023 and 2028 senior notes, revolving credit facility and loan associated with 50 Fremont; compliance with our debt covenants and lease obligations; current and potential litigation involving us; and the impact of climate change, natural disasters and actual or threatened public health emergencies. These and other risks and uncertainties may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report for additional detail regarding factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. 3 Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Salesforce is a global leader in customer relationship management ( CRM ) technology that brings companies and customers together. Founded in 1999, Salesforce enables companies of every size and industry to connect with their customers in new ways through existing and emerging technologies, including cloud, mobile, social, blockchain, voice and artificial intelligence ( AI ), to transform their businesses. Salesforce s Customer 360 is an integrated platform that unites sales, service, marketing, commerce, integration, analytics and more to give companies a single source of truth about their customers. Our service offerings are designed to be intuitive and easy to use. They can generally be deployed quickly, configured easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications. We sell to businesses worldwide primarily on a subscription basis, through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer tools, we also enable third parties to develop additional functionality and new applications, or apps that run on our platform, which are sold separately from or in conjunction with our service offerings. To advance the development of the Customer 360 platform, we have been acquisitive. For example, in fiscal year 2019, we acquired MuleSoft, Inc. ( MuleSoft ), an integration platform company, and in fiscal year 2020, we acquired Tableau Software Inc. ( Tableau ), an analytics company. Salesforce is committed to a core set of values: trust, customer success, innovation and equality. Foremost among these is trust, which is the foundation for everything we do. Our customers trust our technology to deliver the highest levels of security, privacy, performance and availability at scale. Customer success is at the core of our business, with people, programs and a focus on making every customer successful. We believe our continuous innovation drives customer success and builds trust, which in turn drives mutual growth. Finally, we value the equality of every individual at our company and in our community as we believe that equality, sustainability and diversity make us a better company. Our culture is driven by these four core values which in turn fosters dialogue, collaboration, recognition and a sense of family. We believe the business of business is to make the world a better place for all of our stakeholders, including stockholders, customers, employees, partners, the planet and the communities in which we work and live. Salesforce is committed to transparent environmental, social and governance disclosures and maintaining programs that support the success of these initiatives. We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999. Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California. Our principal address is Salesforce Tower, 415 Mission St, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, California 94105, and our primary website address is www.salesforce.com. Our Service Offerings Salesforce Customer 360 includes applications and platform services for every touchpoint in a customer s journey. It includes the following offerings: Sales Cloud. Sales Cloud empowers sales teams of companies of every size and industry to sell faster, smarter and in the way they want. Our customers use Sales Cloud to store data, monitor leads and progress, forecast opportunities, gain insights through analytics and relationship intelligence, and deliver quotes, contracts and invoices. Service Cloud. Service Cloud enables companies to deliver smarter, faster and more personalized customer service and support. Our customers use Service Cloud to connect their service agents with customers anytime and anywhere, on popular devices and across multiple channels: phone, email, messaging, chat, live video, SMS, self-service web portals, social networks, online communities and directly within their own products and mobile apps. In addition, Service Cloud offers a field service solution that enables companies to connect agents, dispatchers and mobile employees through one centralized platform, on which they can schedule and dispatch work intelligently, and track and manage jobs in real-time. Marketing and Commerce Cloud. Marketing Cloud enables companies to plan, personalize and optimize one-to-one customer marketing journeys, including interactions across email, mobile, social, web and connected products. In addition, companies can segment and target audiences to power precise digital marketing at scale. With Marketing Cloud, customer data can also be integrated with Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a complete view of their customers. Our Commerce Cloud empowers brands to unify the customer experience across all points of commerce, including mobile, web, social and store. With embedded AI that delivers a personalized shopping experience and a robust partner ecosystem, Commerce Cloud helps companies drive increased engagement, conversion, revenue and loyalty from their customers. Salesforce Platform and Other. Customer 360 Platform. The Customer 360 Platform empowers Information Technology ( IT ), developers and business users with no-code to pro-code Platform-as-a-Service tools for building, securing, integrating and managing the business apps 4 Table of Contents that power today's customer experiences. With the Customer 360 Platform, enterprises drive digital transformation at scale by building applications for any business need. The Customer 360 Platform also includes Trailhead, our free online learning platform that allows anyone to learn in-demand Salesforce skills, including administering our services and developing on the Salesforce Customer 360 Platform. With myTrailhead, customers can personalize Trailhead for their business to empower learning and enablement at their company. The Customer 360 Platform also includes our Heroku Engagement Platform, which enables developers to build, run and operate applications entirely in the cloud. Integration. MuleSoft Anypoint Platform enables our customers to connect any system, application, data or device, whether in the cloud or on-premises, on a unified platform using application networks instead of inflexible custom code. By unlocking data across their enterprise, our customers can create new revenue opportunities, increase operational efficiency and create differentiated customer experiences. Analytics . Tableau and Einstein Analytics offer customers intelligent analytics capabilities so they can better understand their business data. By providing self-service analytical technology to customers, they are intended to improve our customers' decision-making and allow customers to take action from any device. Productivity. Quip Collaboration Platform combines documents, spreadsheets, apps and chat with live CRM data to deliver a central hub for teams to create, collaborate and get work done from almost any device. Our service offerings are suited to meet the needs of our customers in certain industries, such as solutions for financial services, healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing, consumer goods, government and philanthropy, as well as customers of every size with offerings such as Essentials for small business. Additionally, our Community Cloud enables companies to quickly create and manage trusted, branded digital destinations for customers, partners and employees, collectively referred to as community cloud. This allows companies to engage and collaborate directly with groups of people by giving them access to relevant information, apps and experts. Business Benefits of Using Our Solution The key advantages of our solutions include the following: A multi-tenant application architecture designed to enable our service offerings to scale securely, reliably and cost effectively. Rapid deployment and lower total cost of ownership with multiple releases per year deployed automatically with new features and functionality. Ease of integration and configuration with application programming interfaces that enable customers to integrate our solutions with existing third-party, custom and legacy apps, as well as write their own application services that integrate with our solutions. Solutions designed to be intuitive, easy to use with minimal training and accessible across multiple hardware platforms such as the phone. Rapid development of apps without having to invest in hardware by providing infrastructure and development environments on demand. Continuous innovation through our Ideas Exchange, which is a forum to provide feedback and suggest new features for future service releases. Positive environmental impact with our multi-tenant cloud computing model that has a smaller environmental footprint than traditional hardware and software. Our Business and Growth Strategy We orient our business strategy and invest for future growth by focusing on the following key priorities: Expanding relationships with existing customers. We see significant opportunities to deepen existing customer relationships through cross selling and upselling. For example, we see significant opportunity to expand multi-offering adoption with our existing customers, including our largest enterprise customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our service offerings, we aim to upgrade the customer experience with new products, premium editions and additional subscriptions by targeting new functional areas and business units, and expanding all editions of our service offerings with new features, functions and increased security through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. Ultimately, our goal is to become our customers' digital trusted advisors, inspiring enterprise-wide digital transformation and accelerating strategic engagements through direct discussions with the highest levels of our customers' executive management. International expansion. We continue to increase our investment in our international go-to-market resources, operations and infrastructure to deliver the highest quality service to our customers around the world. 5 Table of Contents Extending go-to-market capabilities. We believe that our offerings provide significant value for businesses of any size. We will continue to pursue businesses of all sizes in major regions globally, primarily through our direct sales force and have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals we employ. We will also continue to develop indirect distribution channels for our solutions around the globe and new go-to-market strategies such as self-service for Essentials. Targeting vertical industries. To better meet the needs of our customers, we provide solutions specifically built for customers in certain industries, such as financial services, healthcare and life sciences, government, manufacturing, consumer goods and philanthropy. These solutions help to expand our potential customer base and help to attract new customers. Expanding into new categories. As part of our growth strategy we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, e-commerce, Internet of Things ( IoT ) and integration, and expect to continue this type of category expansion in the future. Expanding and strengthening our partner ecosystem. The Customer 360 Platform enables customers, independent software vendors ( ISVs ) and third-party developers to create, test and deliver cloud-based apps. These apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange, our enterprise cloud marketplace, or sold directly by software vendors. We continue to work with and invest in our partner ecosystem, including these ISVs and system integrators ( SIs ), to accelerate our reach into new markets and industries, offer a variety of solutions natively and through the AppExchange, and address the business requirements of both current and future customers. Promoting strong customer adoption and reducing customer attrition. We believe that we have the people, processes and proven innovation to help companies transform successfully. We have free, curated resources such as Trailhead to help companies of every size learn our systems, as well as customer success programs including success management resources, advisory services, technical architects and business strategists to enable and accelerate digital transformation. With these resources and our customer success programs, we strive to reduce attrition and secure renewals of existing customer subscriptions prior to the end of their contractual terms. Mergers and Acquisitions and Strategic Investments From time to time, we evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies and intellectual property rights to complement our organic innovation and advance the development of our Customer 360 Platform. These evaluations resulted in our acquisition of several companies in fiscal 2020, notably Salesforce.org, Tableau and ClickSoftware Technologies, Ltd. ( ClickSoftware ), which expanded our solutions built for non-profit and higher education organizations, as well as our analytics and field service management capabilities, respectively. In addition to mergers and acquisitions, we invest in early- to late-stage technology and professional cloud service companies across the globe to support our business initiatives. We plan to continue making these types of strategic investments as opportunities arise. Technology, Development and Operations We primarily deliver our Salesforce solutions as highly scalable, cloud computing application and platform services on a multi-tenant technology architecture. We also offer integration and analytics capabilities in the cloud, as well as on-premises, to provide our customers more options to integrate and understand their data. Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all customers as separate tenants who run in virtual isolation from each other. This approach allows us to spread the cost of delivering our services across our user base and scale our business faster than traditional software vendors while focusing our resources on building new functionality and enhancing existing offerings. We provide the majority of our services to our customers from infrastructure designed and operated by us but secured within third-party data center facilities. In combination with these third-party data center facilities, we also run our services on cloud computing platform partners who offer Infrastructure-as-a-Service, including servers, storage, databases and networking. Our technology and product efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality, performance, availability and security of our existing service offerings, as well as developing new features, functionality and services and integrating businesses, services and technologies from acquisitions. Performance, functional depth, security, usability and sustainability of our solutions influence our technology decisions and product direction. Competition The market for our service offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology and low barriers to entry, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our current competitors include: 6 Table of Contents Vendors of packaged business software, as well as companies offering enterprise apps delivered through on-premises offerings from enterprise software application vendors and cloud computing application service providers, either individually or with others; Internally developed enterprise applications (by our potential customers IT departments); Software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality; Suppliers of traditional business intelligence and data preparation products, as well as business analytics software companies; Integration software vendors and other companies offering integration or API solutions; Marketing vendors, which may be specialized in advertising, targeting, messaging, or campaign automation; E-commerce solutions from established and emerging cloud-only vendors and established on-premises vendors; Traditional platform development environment companies and cloud computing development platform companies who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the customers current infrastructure or as hosted services; IoT platforms from large companies that have existing relationships with hardware and software companies; and AI solutions from new startups and established companies. We believe more traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors may become a greater competitive threat as they shift more of their focus to cloud computing. Customers We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2020, 2019 or 2018. Customer Service and Support We offer professional services to help customers achieve business results faster with Salesforce solutions. Our architects and innovation program teams act as advisors to plan and execute digital transformations for our customers. This includes implementation services for multi-cloud and complex implementations. We provide best-practices and AI-based recommendations and adoption programs globally. In addition, we provide advanced education, including instructor-led and online courses to certify our customers and partners on architecting, administering, deploying and developing our service offerings. Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support that is either included in a premium success offering or sold for an additional fee, which can include services such as priority access to technical resources, developer support and system administration. In addition, we offer a premier priority support add-on that is designed to provide customers technical account management with responses for incidents from a dedicated team knowledgeable about the customer's specific enterprise architecture, which offers proactive monitoring and instruction to optimize their usage of our products. Sales and Marketing We sell our services primarily through our direct sales force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads. To a lesser extent, we also have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects. This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and other partners. In return, we typically pay these partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers whom they refer. We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service. Our marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current customers, partners and developers. We focus our marketing activities on the cities and countries with the largest market opportunity. Our primary marketing activities include: Multi-channel marketing campaigns that span email, social, web and more, which align to a broader customer journey; 7 Table of Contents Customer events of all sizes to create customer and prospect awareness, including proprietary events such as Dreamforce and World Tours, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events; Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, brand, service offerings and value proposition; Partner co-marketing activities with global and regional implementation partners; Customer testimonials and our community of Trailblazers, individuals who drive innovation, grow their careers and transform their businesses using the Salesforce platform; Event sponsorships; and Primary real estate signage. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology and our brands. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, services, documentation and other proprietary information. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our service offerings. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, fostering open source software or attracting and enabling our external development community. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Employees As of January 31, 2020, we had more than 49,000 employees. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. However, for certain foreign subsidiaries, works councils represent our employees. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), and all amendments to these filings, can be obtained free of charge from our website at http://investor.salesforce.com/about-us/investor/financials/ or by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.