Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 47 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 78 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 79 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 122 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 122 Item 9B. Other Information 122 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 123 Item 11. Executive Compensation 123 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 123 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 123 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 123 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 123 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 123 Signatures 126 Power of Attorney 127 i Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, our business strategy and plans and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin, operating expenses (including changes in sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses), and our ability to achieve, and maintain, future profitability; market acceptance of our cloud platform; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our cloud platform; our ability to maintain and expand our customer base, including by attracting new customers; our ability to develop new solutions, or enhancements to our existing solutions, and bring them to market in a timely manner; anticipated trends, growth rates and challenges in our business and in the markets in which we operate; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our relationships with third parties, including channel partners and technology alliance partners; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property rights; our ability to successfully defend litigation brought against us; our ability to successfully expand in our existing markets and into new markets; sufficiency of cash to meet cash needs for at least the next 12 months; our ability to expand internationally; our ability to comply with laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally; our ability to implement, maintain, and improve our internal control over financial reporting; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel. These statements are based on our current plans, estimates and projections in light of information currently available to us. These forward-looking statements may be affected by risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under Risk Factors. Furthermore, new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties or how they may affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, revenue and financial results could be harmed, and the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. Forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events, except as required by law. 1 Table of Contents We intend to announce material information to the public through the CrowdStrike Investor Relations website ir.crowdstrike.com, SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and public webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media and our blog, to communicate with our investors, customers, and the public about our company, our offerings, and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media and our blog could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above, including the social media channels listed on our investor relations website, and to review the information disclosed through such channels. Any updates to the list of disclosure channels through which we will announce information will be posted on the investor relations page on our website. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We founded CrowdStrike in 2011 to reinvent security for the cloud era. When we started the company, cyberattackers had a decided, asymmetric advantage over existing security products. We turned the tables on the adversaries by taking a fundamentally new approach that leverages the network effects of crowdsourced data applied to modern technologies such as AI, cloud computing, and graph databases. Realizing that the nature of cybersecurity problems had changed but the solutions had not, we built our CrowdStrike Falcon platform to detect threats and stop breaches. We believe we are defining a new category called the Security Cloud, with the power to transform the security industry much the same way the cloud has transformed the CRM, HR, and service management industries. With our Falcon platform, we created the first multi-tenant, cloud native, intelligent security solution capable of protecting workloads across on-premise, virtualized, and cloud-based environments running on a variety of endpoints such as laptops, desktops, servers, virtual machines, and IoT devices. We deliver comprehensive breach protection even against today s most sophisticated attacks on the endpoint, where the most valuable corporate data resides. Our Falcon platform is composed of two tightly integrated proprietary technologies: our easily deployed intelligent lightweight agent and our cloud-based, dynamic graph database called Threat Graph. Our solution benefits from crowdsourcing and economies of scale, which we believe enables our AI algorithms to be uniquely effective. We call this cloud-scale AI. Our single lightweight agent is installed on each endpoint and provides local detection and prevention capabilities while also intelligently collecting and streaming high fidelity data to our platform for real-time decision-making. Our Threat Graph processes, correlates, and analyzes this data in the cloud using a combination of AI and behavioral pattern-matching techniques. By analyzing and correlating information across our massive, crowdsourced dataset, we are able to deploy our AI algorithms at cloud-scale and build a more intelligent, effective solution to detect threats and stop breaches that on-premise or single instance cloud products cannot match. Today, we offer 11 cloud modules on our Falcon platform via a SaaS subscription-based model that spans multiple large security markets, including endpoint security, security and IT operations (including vulnerability management), and threat intelligence. Organizations everywhere are becoming more distributed as they adopt the cloud, increase workforce mobility, and grow their number of connected devices. They are adding more workloads to a myriad of different endpoints beyond the traditional security perimeter, exposing an increasingly broad attack surface to adversaries. In addition, the sophistication of cyberattacks has increased, often coming from nation-states, well-funded criminal organizations, and hackers using advanced, easily obtained methods of attack. On a number of occasions, adversaries have launched devastating, destructive attacks that have caused significant business disruption and billions of dollars in cumulative losses. The architectural limitations of legacy security products, coupled with a dynamic and intensifying threat landscape, are creating the need for a fundamentally new approach to security. Our unique approach starts with our single intelligent lightweight agent that enables frictionless deployment of our platform at scale. Our customers can rapidly adopt our technology across any type of workload running on a variety of endpoints. Our lightweight agent offloads computationally intensive tasks to the cloud, while retaining local detection and prevention capabilities that are necessary on the endpoint. The agent is nonintrusive to the end user and continues to protect the endpoint and track activity even when offline. The agent recommences transmitting data to our Falcon platform when the connection to the cloud has been reestablished. By utilizing a single agent, customers are able to leverage all the capabilities of our platform without burdening the endpoint with multiple agents. Our lightweight agent intelligently streams high fidelity endpoint data to the cloud where Threat Graph provides a simple, flexible, and scalable way to model highly interconnected data sets. Threat Graph processes, correlates, and analyzes over three trillion endpoint-related events per week in real time and maintains an index of these events for future use. Threat Graph continuously looks for malicious activity by applying graph analytics and AI algorithms to the data streamed from the endpoints. Our multi-tenant architecture allows us to collect a broad array of high fidelity data about both potential attacks and benign behavioral patterns across our entire customer base, continuously enhancing our AI algorithms. This significantly increases the efficacy of our solution to stop breaches while reducing false positives. 3 Table of Contents We founded our company on the principle that the future of security would be driven by AI and that a cloud-native architecture would enable the collection of high fidelity data and scalability necessary for an effective solution. We call this cloud-scale AI. From the beginning, our strategy was focused on collecting data at scale, centrally storing such data in a singular model, and training our algorithms on these vast amounts of high fidelity data, which we believe is a fundamental differentiator from our competitors. Our cloud-scale AI means that the more data that is fed into our Falcon platform, the more intelligent Threat Graph becomes and the more our customers benefit, creating a powerful network effect that increases the overall value we provide. AI is revolutionizing many technology fields, including security solutions. To be truly effective, algorithms that enable AI depend on the quality and volume of data that trains them and the selection of the right differentiating features from that data. Our proprietary algorithms in Threat Graph identify events that may or may not be directly related, but together could indicate a threat that could otherwise remain undetected. Our cloud-scale algorithms make over 134 million indicator of attack decisions per minute. We are uniquely effective because we have more high fidelity data to train our AI models and more security expertise to guide our feature selection all resulting in industry-leading efficacy and low false positives. Our rich set of continuously collected high fidelity endpoint data feeding our algorithms also enables us to use an active learning approach, where the models are continuously updated to fill in gaps identified in initial models and their performance is validated with this data prior to production use. By leveraging a multi-tenant, cloud native solution, the data we analyze to stop breaches is both larger and more meaningful than the data from on-premise or single instance private cloud products. If Threat Graph discovers something in one customer environment, all customers benefit automatically and in real time. Taken together, our platform enables intelligent, dynamic automation at scale to detect threats and stop breaches. We designed our Falcon platform with an open, interoperable, and highly extensible architecture. Because of our single data model, we only need to collect high fidelity endpoint data once from our agent, which we can use repeatedly for multiple use cases. Therefore, we can rapidly innovate, build, and deploy highly integrated modules to access additional market opportunities. We launched CrowdStrike Store, the first open cloud-based application platform for endpoint security and the industry s first unified security cloud ecosystem of trusted third-party applications. We also built a rich set of APIs that allows us to ingest third-party data into our Falcon platform and allows our customers to expand the functionality of their existing security systems by writing their own programs and accessing the data on our platform. Our Falcon platform includes our OverWatch threat hunting cloud module that combines the human intelligence of our elite security experts with the power of Threat Graph. Because our world class team can see potential attacks across our entire customer base, their expertise is enhanced by their constant visibility into the threat landscape. We are able to keep this team extremely small and scalable by leveraging automation and our Threat Graph. OverWatch is a force multiplier that extends the capabilities and improves the productivity of our customers security teams. We offer our customers compelling business value that includes ease of adoption, rapid time-to-value, superior efficacy rates in detecting threats and preventing breaches, and reduced total cost of ownership by consolidating legacy, siloed security products in a single solution. We also allow thinly-stretched security organizations to automate previously manual tasks, freeing them to focus on their most important objectives. With the Falcon platform, organizations can transform how they combat threats, from slow, manual, and reactionary to fast, automated, and predictive, providing visibility across the entire threat lifecycle. We primarily sell our platform and cloud modules through our direct sales team that leverages our network of channel partners to maximize effectiveness and scale. We amplify our sales presence by leveraging our technology alliance partners that can deliver, embed, or build applications with data and analytics from our Falcon platform. We are also enhancing our go-to-market strategy using a low-touch, trial-to-pay approach. In December 2017, we began to employ a trial-to-pay model in which we offer 15-day free trial access to Falcon Prevent, our next-generation antivirus module, to prospective customers directly from our website. In May 2018, we announced that Falcon Prevent was available for trial and purchase from the AWS Marketplace. We believe this approach enables a higher velocity of new customer acquisition and expansion, and extends our reach to customers of all sizes. We have a low friction land-and-expand sales strategy. When customers deploy our Falcon platform, they can start with any number of cloud modules and we can activate additional cloud modules in real time on the same agent already deployed on the endpoint. Once customers experience the benefits of our Falcon platform, they often expand their adoption over time by adding more endpoints or purchasing additional modules. As of January 31, 2020, one-third of our customer base had adopted five or more modules. Our dollar-based net retention rate, which measures expansion in existing customers subscriptions over a 12 month period, was 124% as of January 31, 2020, demonstrating the power of our land-and-expand strategy. 4 Table of Contents Some of the world s largest enterprises, government organizations, and high profile brands trust us to protect their business. As of January 31, 2020, we had 5,431 subscription customers worldwide, including 49 of the Fortune 100, 40 of the top 100 global companies, and 11 of the top 20 major banks. We began as a large enterprise solution, but the flexibility and scalability of our Falcon platform and enhanced go-to-market approach enable us to protect customers of any size from hundreds of thousands of endpoints to as few as one. We have been recognized by numerous independent third-party analysts, including Gartner (2)(3) , Forrester, and IDC. We have experienced significant growth, with total revenue increasing from $118.8 million for fiscal 2018 to $249.8 million for fiscal 2019, representing year-over-year growth of 110% and from $249.8 million for fiscal 2019 to $481.4 million for fiscal 2020, representing year-over-year growth of 93%. Subscription revenue grew from $92.6 million for fiscal 2018 to $219.4 million for fiscal 2019, a 137% increase, and from $219.4 million for fiscal 2019 to $436.3 million for fiscal 2020, a 99% increase. Our annual recurring revenue, or ARR, has grown from $141.3 million as of January 31, 2018, to $312.7 million as of January 31, 2019, a 121% increase, and from $312.7 million as of January 31, 2019 to $600.5 million as of January 31, 2020, a 92% increase. Our net loss increased from $135.5 million for fiscal 2018 to $140.1 million for fiscal 2019, to $141.8 million for fiscal 2020. We expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in our business, and our sales capabilities in particular, to address our large market opportunity. Industry Background There are a number of key trends that are driving the need for a new approach to security. Cybersecurity Threats are Greater than Ever Today s cybersecurity threat landscape is more dangerous than ever. Breaches are complex and often executed over multiple steps known in the industry as the threat lifecycle. The typical threat lifecycle starts with an initial exploit to enter a system, historically using malware, but increasingly using malware-free or fileless methods, to penetrate endpoints and establish a beachhead inside the corporate perimeter. Once inside, adversaries move laterally across the corporate environment where they collect credentials and escalate privileges enabling the typical adversary to download a larger, more destructive malware program or connect with an external control source. At this stage in the threat lifecycle, the adversary is able to encrypt, destroy, or silently exfiltrate sensitive data. Increasingly, adversaries are well-trained, possess significant technological and human resources, and are highly deliberate and targeted in their attacks. Adversaries today range from militaries and intelligence services of well-funded nation-states to sophisticated criminal organizations who are motivated by financial gains to hackers leveraging readily available advanced techniques. These groups and individuals are responsible for many breaches that involve theft or holding hostage financial data, intellectual property, and trade secrets. These attacks are pervasive, targeting a broad range of industries including technology, transportation, healthcare, financial services, governments and political organizations, utility, retail, and public infrastructure. On a number of occasions, adversaries have launched devastating, destructive attacks that have caused significant business disruption and billions of dollars in cumulative losses. For example, cyber risk modeling firm Cyence Inc. estimated that the overall global economic costs incurred from the 2017 WannaCry attack were between $4 billion and $8 billion. Proliferation of Workloads Expanding the Attack Surface The rise of cloud computing, workforce mobility, and growth in connected devices has created a rapid expansion of workloads across endpoints and industries. According to a 2019 Cisco white paper, the number of connected devices is expected to be 28.5 billion by 2022, up from 18 billion in 2017. As a result, devices, applications, and data are highly distributed and diverse, challenging organizations to monitor and protect all of their workloads running on various endpoints. The adoption of many of these technologies and the resulting disappearance of the corporate perimeter have expanded the attack surface and left many organizations increasingly vulnerable to breach. Today, workloads running on endpoints, such as laptops and servers, are the primary targets in a security attack since they are vulnerable and frequently are repositories of valuable and sensitive data, including intellectual property, authentication credentials, personally identifiable information, financial information, and other digital assets. As new workloads are provisioned on emerging mobile and IoT devices, oftentimes residing outside of the corporate perimeter, increasingly more sensitive and mission critical data will be generated and stored on these endpoints as well. Attacks such as Shamoon, WannaCry and NotPetya have shown that destroying or locking data on a large portion of an enterprise s endpoints can cause widespread business disruption. 5 Table of Contents On-Premise Security Architectures are Constrained On-premise products are siloed, lack integration, and have limited ability to collect, process, and analyze vast amounts of data attributes that are required to be effective in today s increasingly dynamic threat landscape. Legacy vendors often deploy more agents to the endpoint as they layer on a patchwork of additional point product capabilities. This approach burdens endpoints by consuming additional storage space, memory, and processor capacity, degrading end user experience without providing effective security. In addition, integrating and maintaining numerous products, data repositories, and infrastructures across highly distributed enterprise environments is a costly and resource-intensive process for already thinly-staffed security teams. Other Existing Security Products have Limitations Legacy Signature-based Products. Signature-based products are designed to detect attacks that are already catalogued in a repository of previously identified threats but are not capable of preventing unknown threats or stopping associated breaches. These signatures, known as Indicators of Compromise, or IOCs, represent a reactive method of tracking cyberattacks. By the time IOCs are located, all they provide is evidence of compromise or breach that may have already resulted in substantial losses to the victim. If an attack vector is even slightly modified, a signature-based approach will no longer detect the attack and will fail to stop the breach. Many significant breaches seen in the last two decades have involved the failure of a legacy signature-based antivirus product to detect a previously unknown or modified version of a previously known attack. Malware-focused Machine Learning Products. Traditionally, organizations have focused on protecting their networks and endpoints against malware-based attacks. These attacks involve malware built for the specific purpose of performing malicious activities, stealing data, or destroying systems. A malware-centric defensive approach will leave the organization vulnerable to attacks that do not leverage malware. According to data from our customer base indexed by Threat Graph, 51% of detections for the calendar year ended 2019 were not malware-based, but instead leveraged legitimate tools built into modern operating systems enabling attackers to accomplish their objectives without writing files to the endpoint, making them more difficult for a traditional antivirus product to detect. Application Whitelisting Products. Application whitelisting products resort to an always allow or always block policy on an endpoint in order to allow or prevent processes from executing. Whitelisting relies in part on manually creating and maintaining a complex list of rules, burdening end users and IT organizations. In order to avoid these management challenges, IT organizations often create special exceptions to the whitelist that attackers leverage to compromise endpoints. Furthermore, fileless attacks can exploit legitimate whitelisted applications, compromising the integrity of the whitelisting product. Network-centric Security Products. Traditional network security vendors have focused their products on perimeter-based protection. However, these approaches have decreased in relevance and effectiveness as employees and workplace devices have expanded beyond the firewall and the use of encrypted traffic has increased creating blind spots and vulnerabilities that attackers are able to exploit. As the number of endpoints proliferates, this layer of defense cannot adequately protect information-rich endpoints and workloads that are outside the corporate perimeter. Bolt-on Cloud Products. Many on-premise vendors have introduced cloud offerings by putting their on-premise products in the cloud. Such single-tenant products were not designed to run in the cloud and therefore continue to be siloed, lack integration, and possess limited scalability to identify threats across their customer base in real time. In addition, such products are complex to deploy, difficult to scale, brittle to maintain, costly to own, and can be ineffective in stopping breaches. Any product that was originally designed for on-premise deployments and migrated to the cloud cannot by definition be a cloud native solution. Creation of the Security Cloud Over the last 15 years, cloud computing has revolutionized many industries in enterprise software and created significant shifts in market share away from incumbents with on-premise or single instance cloud offerings. The cloud has enabled organizations to cost-efficiently scale their compute and storage resources, accelerate innovation, eliminate ongoing maintenance and administrative costs, and consolidate previously disparate and siloed products. During this period, new data technologies also emerged leveraging the cloud to enable more data collection, improve data analysis, and share key insights to drive better business outcomes and make more informed decisions. 6 Table of Contents The purpose-built, cloud native leaders that began from scratch with multi-tenant architectures, single data models, and SaaS business models have defined entirely new categories such as CRM Cloud, HR Cloud, and Service Management Cloud. We believe we are doing the same for security. An effective solution to address the modern cybersecurity threat landscape should combine multiple methods into an integrated, data-driven, and automated cloud-based platform in order to provide comprehensive breach protection across the entire threat lifecycle. Such a platform requires collecting, processing, analyzing, and correlating vast amounts of high fidelity endpoint events in the cloud. This platform needs to operate at web-scale, process events in real time, and benefit from the network effects of crowdsourced data to understand attacks that happen across millions of endpoints. We believe only a cloud native approach can address today s threat landscape. We believe we are defining a new category called the Security Cloud. Our Solution With our Falcon platform, we created the first multi-tenant, cloud native, open, intelligent security solution capable of protecting workloads across on-premise, virtualized, and cloud-based environments running on a variety of endpoints such as laptops, desktops, servers, virtual machines, and IoT devices. Our solution consists of our single intelligent lightweight agent and our powerful and dynamic cloud-based database Threat Graph. These two tightly integrated proprietary technologies continually collect, process, analyze and correlate vast amounts of high fidelity data across the entire threat lifecycle using a combination of AI and behavioral pattern-matching techniques to stop breaches. We implement this approach by crowdsourcing data across our entire customer base and taking advantage of economies of scale, which we believe enables our AI algorithms to be uniquely effective. Our cloud-based AI is also automatically shared with every customer in our community in real time. We combine multiple methods of detection, prevention, and response to known and unknown threats as well as malware and malware-free techniques across the threat lifecycle. Our Falcon platform integrates 11 cloud modules via a SaaS subscription-based model that spans multiple large security markets, including endpoint security, security and IT operations (including vulnerability management), and threat intelligence to deliver comprehensive breach protection even against today s most sophisticated attacks. Our single data model and open cloud architecture enable us and third-party partners to rapidly innovate, build, and deploy new cloud modules to provide our customers with additional functionality across a myriad of use cases. We designed our platform to be rapidly deployable, easy to use, and extensible, with the a