Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 55 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 56 Item 2. Properties 57 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 57 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 57 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 58 Item 6. [Reserved] 59 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 60 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 75 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 76 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 113 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B. Other Information 114 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 114 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 115 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 115 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 115 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 Signatures 119 Power of Attorney 120 1 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, our business strategy and plans and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin, operating expenses (including changes in sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses), and our ability to achieve, and maintain, future profitability; market acceptance of our cloud platform; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our cloud platform; our ability to maintain and expand our customer base, including by attracting new customers; our ability to develop new solutions, or enhancements to our existing solutions, and bring them to market in a timely manner; anticipated trends, growth rates and challenges in our business and in the markets in which we operate; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our relationships with third parties, including channel partners and technology alliance partners; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property rights; our ability to successfully defend litigation brought against us; our ability to successfully expand in our existing markets and into new markets; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet cash needs for at least the next 12 months; anticipated developments relating to our valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets; our ability to expand internationally; our ability to comply with laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally; our ability to develop, maintain, and improve our internal control over financial reporting; macroeconomic factors, including inflation and instability in the global credit and financial markets; our ability to successfully close and integrate acquisitions to contribute to our growth objectives; and 2 Table of Contents the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel. These statements are based on our current plans, estimates and projections in light of information currently available to us. These forward-looking statements may be affected by risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under Risk Factors. Furthermore, new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties or how they may affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, our business, revenue and financial results could be harmed, and the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. Forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events, except as required by law. We intend to announce material information to the public through the CrowdStrike Investor Relations website ir.crowdstrike.com, SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and public webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media and our blog, to communicate with our investors, customers, and the public about our company, our offerings, and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media and our blog could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above, including the social media channels listed on our investor relations website, and to review the information disclosed through such channels. Any updates to the list of disclosure channels through which we will announce information will be posted on the investor relations page on our website. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Founded in 2011, CrowdStrike reinvented cybersecurity for the cloud era and transformed the way cybersecurity is delivered and experienced by customers. When we started CrowdStrike, cyberattackers had an asymmetric advantage over legacy cybersecurity products that could not keep pace with rapid changes in adversary tactics. We took a fundamentally different approach to solve this problem with the AI-native CrowdStrike Falcon XDR platform the first, true, cloud-native platform built with artificial intelligence ( AI ) at the core, capable of harnessing vast amounts of security and enterprise data to deliver highly modular solutions through a single lightweight agent. The CrowdStrike Falcon platform is designed to be the definitive platform for cybersecurity consolidation, purpose-built to stop breaches. The platform s single, lightweight agent collects and integrates data from across the enterprise, including endpoints, cloud workloads, identities, and third-party sources. We use this to train our AI to detect and prevent threats and drive workflow automation to give security teams machine speed advantage to stop adversaries. By consolidating and replacing legacy point products and fragmented platforms across key areas of security and IT, the Falcon platform delivers a unified, modern approach that increases capability while reducing complexity and cost all while stopping breaches. We believe our approach has defined a new category called the Security Cloud, which has the power to transform the cybersecurity industry the same way the cloud has transformed the customer relationship management, human resources, and service management industries. Using cloud-scale AI, our Security Cloud enriches and correlates trillions of cybersecurity events per week with indicators of attack, threat intelligence, and enterprise data (including data from across endpoints, workloads, identities, DevOps, IT assets, and configurations) to create actionable data, identify shifts in adversary tactics, and automatically prevent threats in real-time across our customer base. The more data that is fed into our Falcon platform, the more intelligent our Security Cloud becomes, and the more our customers benefit, creating a powerful network effect that increases the overall value we provide. CrowdStrike: The Architectural Purpose Behind the Platform Our Falcon platform was purpose-built in the cloud to harness the power of data and AI to deliver the next generation of automated protection and provide threat hunters with the intelligence required to stop sophisticated attacks, including malware-free and fileless attacks. This approach has made CrowdStrike an industry leader in protection across endpoints, cloud workloads, identity and data (capable of protecting workloads across on-premise, virtualized, and cloud-based environments running on a variety of endpoints such as desktops, laptops, servers, virtual machines, cloud workloads, cloud containers, mobile, and IoT devices) and enables us to rapidly scale this best in class protection across new and emerging areas of enterprise risk. Today, we offer 27 cloud modules on our Falcon platform via a SaaS subscription-based model that spans multiple large markets, including corporate endpoint and cloud workload security, managed security services, security and vulnerability management, IT operations management, identity protection, next-generation SIEM and log management, threat intelligence services, data protection, Security Orchestration, Automation and Response ( SOAR ) and AI powered workflow automation, and securing generative AI workloads. Our Falcon platform is composed of tightly integrated, proprietary technologies that enable us to deliver superior protection and performance, while reducing complexity for our customers. Our Falcon platform consists of our easily deployed, intelligent lightweight agent, and our groundbreaking graph technology. Our single, lightweight-agent approach has changed how organizations experience cybersecurity, delivering protection without impacting the user, resources or productivity. With the lightweight agent installed on each endpoint and cloud workload, our Falcon platform automates detection and prevention capabilities in real time across our entire global customer base. This also enables our Falcon platform to intelligently ingest data once and stream high fidelity data back into the Security Cloud to be re-used for multiple use cases, continuously improve our Falcon platform s AI algorithms and make its real-time decision-making faster and smarter to keep customers ahead of changing adversary tactics. 4 Table of Contents Our graph technology correlates and contextualizes the vast data of our Security Cloud so we can collect data once and reuse it repeatedly to deliver solutions that solve our customers biggest problems. The highly advanced graph technologies underpinning the Falcon platform include: Our Threat Graph, which uses a combination of AI and behavioral pattern-matching techniques to correlate and analyze trillions of cybersecurity events, enriched with threat intelligence, and third-party data to identify and link threat activity together to automatically prevent threats in real time across CrowdStrike s global customer base. This also provides customers with increased visibility of attacks for proactive threat hunting and timely detection and remediation of novel threats. Our Intel Graph, which analyzes and correlates data and threat intelligence to visualize the connections between adversaries and attacks to help customers prioritize investigations and gain a deep understanding of the threat landscape. The latest intel on adversaries, tactics, techniques, and procedures is delivered seamlessly within the CrowdStrike Falcon platform and is mapped to the MITRE ATT CK framework. Our Asset Graph, which dynamically monitors and tracks the complex interactions among assets, providing a single holistic view of the risks those assets pose. Asset Graph provides graph visualizations of the relationships among all assets such as devices, users, accounts, applications, cloud workloads and operations technology ( OT ), along with the rich context necessary for proper security hygiene and proactive security posture management to reduce risk in their organizations without impacting IT. The Falcon platform was purpose-built with the foresight that the future of cybersecurity would need to be cloud-native and AI-driven. While AI is revolutionizing many technology fields, including cybersecurity solutions, to be truly effective, algorithms that enable AI depend on the quality and volume of data that trains them and the selection of the right differentiating features from that data. This is why we believe our Security Cloud and our cloud-native architecture creates a fundamental differentiator from our competitors. The expansive amount of high fidelity data crowdsourced and captured in our Security Cloud enables the continuous training of our algorithms. We call this cloud-scale AI. Our technology is uniquely effective because we not only have a massive amount of high fidelity data to continuously train our AI models but also because we couple that data with deep human cybersecurity expertise, which supports our industry-leading efficacy and low false positives. By analyzing and correlating information across our massive, crowdsourced dataset, we are able to deploy our AI algorithms at cloud-scale and build a more intelligent, effective solution to detect threats and stop breaches that on-premise, cloud-hosted and hybrid products cannot match due to the inherent architectural limitations those products have with respect to data storage and analysis. The more data that is fed into our Falcon platform, the more intelligent the Security Cloud becomes, and the more our customers benefit, creating a powerful network effect that increases the overall value we provide. Industry Background: The Trends Driving a Need for a New Approach to Security We believe there are a number of important trends that drive the need for a new approach to security. These include: The Increasing Sophistication and Disruption of Cybersecurity Threats: Adversary sophistication continues to increase as militaries and intelligence services of well-funded nation-states, technically advanced criminal organizations and hackers advance their tactics. In addition, the commoditization of technologies like generative AI make it easier for low-skilled adversaries to move faster and launch more sophisticated attacks. This includes non-malware based attacks like social engineering that exploit user identities and credentials. These attacks are pervasive, targeting a broad range of industries including technology, transportation, healthcare, financial services, governments and political organizations, utility, retail, and public infrastructure. The number and scale of attacks continue to increase. The typical attack cycle starts with attackers attempting to penetrate endpoints to establish a beachhead. Once inside, adversaries steal and exploit legitimate credentials to escalate privileges, move laterally and progress and attack, often downloading malware or ransomware. At this stage in the threat lifecycle, the adversary is able to encrypt, destroy, or silently exfiltrate sensitive data. 5 Table of Contents An Expanded Attack Surface Driven By Hybrid and Remote Workforces: Organizations everywhere are embracing digital transformation and are becoming more distributed as they adopt the cloud, increase workforce mobility, and grow their number of connected devices. They are adding more workloads to a myriad of different endpoints beyond the traditional cybersecurity perimeter, exposing an increasingly broad attack surface to adversaries. This trend accelerated significantly with the need to support an increasingly remote workforce in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and we believe this trend continues today. A Growing Cyber Skills Gap: Trained cybersecurity professionals are in high demand, and organizations continue to face a dire shortage of talent to fill much needed cybersecurity positions. As a result, existing cybersecurity teams are often overwhelmed by the velocity of cyberattacks. Adversaries exploit this vacuum by continuing to accelerate their sophisticated attacks. The Need to Reduce Complexity and Simplify Security Operations: Organizations are increasingly looking to reduce the complexity of their security and IT stack. Modern security requires fewer point products, fewer agents and technologies that consume fewer resources. Increasingly, organizations are looking to standardize on trusted platforms that deliver an immediate return on investment and lower total cost of ownership. Competitive Market: Existing Security Solutions Are Limited and Exacerbate Ongoing Trends: We believe the aforementioned trends are exacerbated by the architectural limitations of legacy cybersecurity products and fragmented platforms, which are characterized by: On-Premise Security and Bolt-On Cloud Products That Lead to Constrained and Impacted Users : On-premise products are siloed, lack integration, and have limited ability to collect, process, and analyze vast amounts of data attributes that are required to be effective in today s increasingly dynamic threat landscape. Meanwhile, these solutions often require more agents on the endpoint as new capabilities are patchworked together, which can have a dramatic negative impact on user performance. Many on-premise vendors have tried to solve this problem by simply extending on-premise products to the cloud. Since their products were not purpose built to run in the cloud, traditional on-premise issues such as complex deployments, data silos, lack of integrations, limited scalability, and high maintenance costs continue to manifest. We believe that any product that was originally designed for on-premise deployments and migrated to the cloud cannot by definition be a cloud native solution. Some other vendors attempt to solve this problem by acquiring disparate products and stitching them together into fragmented platforms. This can force customers to focus on implementing integrations, not security outcomes and stopping the breach. The resulting complexity can impede workflows and slow down response time. Legacy Signature-Based Products That Are Not Effective Against Unknown Threats : Signature-based products are designed to detect attacks that are already cataloged as previously identified threats. As a result, such products are fundamentally unable to prevent unknown threats resulting from shifts in attacker tradecraft. An attacker may be able to bypass a signature-based defense with just a slight modification to an existing attack. Many significant breaches seen in the last two decades have involved the failure of a legacy signature-based antivirus product to detect a previously unknown or modified version of a previously known attack. Malware-Focused Products That Miss Sophisticated Attacks: Traditionally, organizations have focused on protecting their networks and endpoints against malware-based attacks. These attacks involve malware built for the specific purpose of performing malicious activities, stealing data, or destroying systems. Our 2024 Global Threat Report observed that over 70% of attacks comprise non-malware, hands-on-keyboard activity. Additionally, we found that eight out of 10 attacks involve compromised or stolen credentials, with these identity-based attacks easily able to bypass legacy approaches to protection. Therefore, a malware-centric defensive approach will leave the organization vulnerable to attacks that do not leverage malware. 6 Table of Contents Application Whitelisting Products That Are Ineffective: Application whitelisting products resort to an always allow or always block policy on an endpoint to allow or prevent processes from executing. Whitelisting relies in part on manually creating and maintaining a complex list of rules, burdening end users and IT organizations. This does not prevent fileless attacks from exploiting legitimate whitelisted applications, compromising the integrity of the whitelisting product. CrowdStrike: Built for This Moment and the Future We believe that the cloud-native architecture of the Falcon platform and Security Cloud provides a sustainable advantage in addressing the needs of our customers as their businesses and the threat landscape continues to evolve. We offer our customers compelling business value that includes ease of adoption, rapid time-to-value, superior efficacy rates in detecting threats and preventing breaches, and reduced total cost of ownership by consolidating legacy, siloed, and multi-agent security products in a single solution. We also allow thinly-stretched security organizations to automate previously manual tasks, freeing them to focus on their most important objectives. With the Falcon platform, organizations can transform how they combat threats, transforming from slow, manual, and reactionary to fast, automated, and predictive, while gaining visibility across the threat lifecycle. Key benefits of our approach and the CrowdStrike Falcon platform include: The Power of the Crowd: Our crowdsourced data enables every customer to benefit from contributing to the Security Cloud. As more high fidelity data is fed into our Security Cloud, our AI models continue to train and improve, increasing the overall efficacy of the Falcon platform. This unique data layer is powered and turned into action by three complementary graph databases (Threat Graph, Asset Graph, and Intel Graph) to put threats, adversaries, and assets into the context needed to make the rapid, informed decisions that stop breaches. High Efficacy, Low False Positives : The vast telemetry of the Security Cloud and the best practices employed in continually training our AI models results in industry-leading efficacy rates and low false positives. Consolidation of Siloed Products : Integrating and maintaining numerous security products creates blind spots that attackers can exploit, is costly to maintain and negatively impacts user performance. Our cloud-native platform approach gives customers a unified approach to address their most critical areas of risk seamlessly. We empower customers to rapidly deploy and scale industry leading technologies across endpoint detection and response ( EDR ) and Extended Detection and Response ( XDR ), Identity Threat Protection, Threat Intelligence, Exposure Management, Cloud Security, Application Security Posture Management, Next-Generation SIEM and Modern Log Management, and IT Automation from a single platform. Reducing Agent Bloat : Our single intelligent lightweight agent enables frictionless deployment of our platform at scale, enabling customers to rapidly adopt our technology across any type of workload running on a variety of endpoints. The agent is non-intrusive to the end user, requires no reboots and continues to protect the endpoint and track activity even when offline. Through our single lightweight agent approach, customers can adopt multiple platform modules to address their critical areas of risk without burdening the endpoint with multiple agents. Legacy approaches often require multiple agents as they layer on new capabilities. This can severely impact user performance and create barriers to security. Rapid Time to Value : Our cloud-native platform was built to rapidly scale industry leading protection across the entire enterprise, eliminating lengthy implementation periods and professional services engagements that next-gen and legacy competitors may require. Our single agent, collect once and re-use many times approach enables us to activate new modules in real time. Elite Security Teams as a Force Multiplier: As adversaries continue to employ sophisticated malwareless attacks that exploit user credentials and identities, automation and autonomous security are no longer sufficient on their own. Stopping today s sophisticated attacks requires a combination of powerful automation and elite threat hunting. Falcon Complete provides a comprehensive monitoring, management, response, and remediation solution to our customers and is designed to bring enterprise level security to companies that may lack enterprise level resources. 7 Table of Contents CrowdStrike Falcon OverWatch, part of CrowdStrike Counter Adversary Operations, combines world-class human intelligence from our elite security experts with the power of the Falcon platform. OverWatch is a force multiplier that extends the capabilities and improves the productivity of our customers security teams. Because our world-class team can see attacks across our entire customer base, their expertise is enhanced by their constant visibility into the threat landscape. Additionally, the insights of our OverWatch team can then be leveraged by the Falcon platform to further enhance its autonomous capabilities, creating a positive feedback loop for our customers. Alleviating the Skills Shortage through Automation : CrowdStrike automates manual tasks to free security teams to focus on their most important job stopping the breach. Our Falcon Fusion capability automates workflows to reduce the need to switch between different security tools and tasks, while our Falcon Insight XDR module provides a unified solution that enables security teams to rapidly and efficiently identify, hunt, and eliminate threats across multiple security domains using first and third party datasets. Lower Total Cost of Ownership : Our cloud-native platform eliminates our customers need for initial or ongoing purchases of hardware and does not require their personnel to configure, implement or integrate disparate point products. Additionally, our comprehensive platform reduces overall personnel costs associated with ongoing maintenance, as well as the need for software patches and upgrades for separate products. Securing Identities and Data Across the Pillars of Modern Enterprise Security As modern attacks and adversaries grow more sophisticated, CrowdStrike believes that stopping breaches in the modern era requires security that delivers unified visibility and protection across three critical areas: Endpoint and Cloud workloads, Identity Threat Protection and Data Protection. Approximately eighty percent of breaches today use stolen credentials and identities. Stopping these advanced attacks requires a holistic approach that delivers true end-to-end protection across workloads, identities, and data. CrowdStrike is able to natively enforce protection at the device layer, the identity layer, and the data layer, extending our bold vision for security by driving modern Defense in Depth to the enterprise. By delivering these powerful capabilities through a unified platform with a single agent, CrowdStrike is able to connect the endpoint and workload to user identity, and the data that is being used and accessed. Customers can see the full health and state of endpoints and workloads, in context with the identity that is using and accessing them, aligned with where data is being created, who is using it, where it flows and how it is protected. CrowdStrike delivers this through a unified platform experience. This is how CrowdStrike believes security should and must be delivered today to combat advanced adversaries and stop breaches in the modern era. This means security solutions that are easy to deploy, easy to manage, and highly effective. The CrowdStrike Falcon Platform: Built to Innovate and Scale Our platform approach allows us to rapidly innovate, build, and deploy highly integrated modules that address critical customer problems and access additional market opportunities. Our Falcon platform is composed of two tightly integrated proprietary technologies: our lightweight agent and our Security Cloud. Our cloud-delivered modules integrate seamlessly within the Falcon platform to provide customers with a unified set of cloud-delivered technologies across EDR and XDR, Identity Threat Detection and Response Protection, Threat Intelligence, Exposure ManagementITSecOps and Risk, Cloud Security, Application Security Posture Management, IT Automation, as well as Next-Generation SIEM and Modern Log Management. The Falcon platform also encompasses recently acquired technologies where integration may be ongoing. We can rapidly and cost effectively develop and deliver additional cloud modules on our Falcon platform without the need for additional agents, and are expanding options for our new customers to test modules on a trial basis as well as offering in-application trials for existing customers. Our expanding set of open APIs and the Foundry app development platform will allow customers and partners to build their own capabilities on top of the Falcon platform. Unifying data from our modules and customers into a single cloud infrastructure gives us significant advantages in developing and delivering innovative AI capabilities to detect and prevent threats, as well as improving user productivity and efficiency through cutting-edge generative AI systems such as our Charlotte AI module. 8 Table of Contents CrowdStrike Falcon Platform: Our Cloud Delivered Modules Our cloud delivered modules integrate seamlessly with the Falcon platform and our single agent to provide functionality in the endpoint security, security and IT operations (including vulnerability management), and threat intelligence markets. Today, our modules include: Cloud Security Falcon Cloud Workload Protection Cloud Runtime Protection. Falcon Cloud Workload Protection provides comprehensive breach protection at run-ti