Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 51 Item 2. Properties 51 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 51 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 52 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 53 Item 6. [Reserved] 54 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 71 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 72 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 111 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 111 Item 9B. Other Information 112 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 112 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 112 Item 11. Executive Compensation 113 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 113 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 113 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 113 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 113 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 113 Signatures 117 Power of Attorney 118 1 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future operating results and financial position, our business strategy and plans and our objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, potentially, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, could, would, project, plan, expect and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit or gross margin, operating expenses (including changes in sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses), and our ability to achieve, and maintain, future profitability; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations, financial results, and liquidity and capital resources, including on customers, sales, expenses, and employees; market acceptance of our cloud platform; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our cloud platform; our ability to maintain and expand our customer base, including by attracting new customers; our ability to develop new solutions, or enhancements to our existing solutions, and bring them to market in a timely manner; anticipated trends, growth rates and challenges in our business and in the markets in which we operate; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our relationships with third parties, including channel partners and technology alliance partners; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property rights; our ability to successfully defend litigation brought against us; our ability to successfully expand in our existing markets and into new markets; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet cash needs for at least the next 12 months; our ability to expand internationally; our ability to comply with laws and regulations that currently apply or become applicable to our business both in the United States and internationally; our ability to develop, maintain, and improve our internal control over financial reporting; instability in the global credit and financial markets; our ability to successfully close and integrate acquisitions to contribute to our growth objectives; and the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel. 2 Table of Contents These statements are based on our current plans, estimates and projections in light of information currently available to us. These forward-looking statements may be affected by risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under Risk Factors. Furthermore, new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties or how they may affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, revenue and financial results could be harmed, and the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. Forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events, except as required by law. We intend to announce material information to the public through the CrowdStrike Investor Relations website ir.crowdstrike.com, SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and public webcasts. We use these channels, as well as social media and our blog, to communicate with our investors, customers, and the public about our company, our offerings, and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media and our blog could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above, including the social media channels listed on our investor relations website, and to review the information disclosed through such channels. Any updates to the list of disclosure channels through which we will announce information will be posted on the investor relations page on our website. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Founded in 2011, CrowdStrike reinvented cybersecurity for the cloud era and transformed the way cybersecurity is delivered and experienced by customers. When we started CrowdStrike, cyberattackers had an asymmetric advantage over legacy cybersecurity products that could not keep pace with the rapid changes in adversary tactics. We took a fundamentally different approach to solve this problem with the CrowdStrike Falcon platform the first, true cloud-native platform capable of harnessing vast amounts of security and enterprise data to deliver highly modular solutions through a single lightweight agent. Our pioneering platform approach keeps customers ahead of attackers by automatically detecting and preventing threats to stop breaches. We believe our approach has defined a new category called the Security Cloud, which has the power to transform the cybersecurity industry the same way the cloud has transformed the customer relationship management, human resources, and service management industries. Using cloud-scale AI, our Security Cloud enriches and correlates trillions of cybersecurity events per week with indicators of attack, threat intelligence and enterprise data (including data from across endpoints, workloads, identities, DevOps, IT assets and configurations) to create actionable data, identify shifts in adversary tactics and automatically prevent threats in real-time across our customer base. The more data that is fed into our Falcon platform, the more intelligent our Security Cloud becomes, and the more our customers benefit, creating a powerful network effect that increases the overall value we provide. CrowdStrike: The Architectural Purpose Behind the Platform Our Falcon platform was purpose-built in the cloud to harness the power of our Security Cloud to deliver the next generation of automated protection and provide threat hunters with the intelligence required to stop sophisticated attacks, including non-malware based attacks. This approach has made CrowdStrike an industry leader in endpoint and cloud workload protection (capable of protecting workloads across on-premise, virtualized, and cloud-based environments running on a variety of endpoints such as desktops, laptops, servers, virtual machines, cloud workloads, cloud containers, mobile, and IoT devices) and enables us to rapidly scale this best in class protection across new and emerging areas of enterprise risk. Today, we offer 22 cloud modules on our Falcon platform via a SaaS subscription-based model that spans multiple large markets, including corporate workload security, security and vulnerability management, managed security services, IT operations management, threat intelligence services, identity protection, and log management. Our Falcon platform is composed of tightly integrated, proprietary technologies that enable us to deliver superior protection and performance, while reducing customer complexity. Our Falcon platform consists of our easily deployed, intelligent lightweight agent, and our groundbreaking graph technology. Our single, lightweight-agent approach has changed how organizations experience cybersecurity, delivering protection without impacting the user, resources or productivity. With the lightweight agent installed on each endpoint or cloud workload, our Falcon platform automates detection and prevention capabilities in real time across our entire global customer base. This also enables our Falcon platform to intelligently ingest and stream high fidelity data back into the Security Cloud to continuously improve our Falcon platform s AI algorithms and make its real-time decision-making faster and smarter to keep customers ahead of changing adversary tactics. Our graph technology correlates and contextualizes the vast data of our Security Cloud so we can collect data once and reuse it repeatedly to deliver solutions that solve our customers biggest problems. Our Threat Graph uses a combination of AI and behavioral pattern-matching techniques to correlate and analyze trillions of cybersecurity events, enriched with threat intelligence, and third-party data to identify and link threat activity together to automatically prevent threats in real time across CrowdStrike s global customer base. This also provides customers with increased visibility of attacks for proactive threat hunting and timely detection and remediation of novel threats. The Falcon platform was purpose-built with the foresight that the future of cybersecurity would need to be cloud-native and AI-driven. While AI is revolutionizing many technology fields, including cybersecurity solutions, to be truly effective, 4 Table of Contents algorithms that enable AI depend on the quality and volume of data that trains them and the selection of the right differentiating features from that data. This is why we believe our Security Cloud and our cloud-native architecture creates a fundamental differentiator from our competitors. The expansive amount of high fidelity data crowdsourced and captured in our Security Cloud enables the continuous training of our algorithms. We call this cloud-scale AI. Our technology is uniquely effective because we not only have a massive amount of high fidelity data to continuously train our AI models but also because of our deep cybersecurity expertise, which supports our industry-leading efficacy and low false positives. By analyzing and correlating information across our massive, crowdsourced dataset, we are able to deploy our AI algorithms at cloud-scale and build a more intelligent, effective solution to detect threats and stop breaches that on-premise, cloud-hosted and hybrid products cannot match due to the inherent architectural limitations those products have with respect to data storage and analysis. The more data that is fed into our Falcon platform, the more intelligent the Security Cloud becomes, and the more our customers benefit, creating a powerful network effect that increases the overall value we provide. Industry Background: The Trends Driving a Need for a New Approach to Security We believe there are a number of important macro trends that drive the need for a new approach to security. These include: Cybersecurity Threats are More Sophisticated and More Damaging: The sophistication of adversaries continues to increase as militaries and intelligence services of well-funded nation-states, technically advanced criminal organizations and hackers use advanced, easily obtained methods of attack - including non-malware based attacks that exploit user identities and credentials. These attacks are pervasive, targeting a broad range of industries including technology, transportation, healthcare, financial services, governments and political organizations, utility, retail, and public infrastructure. The number and scale of attacks continue to increase. The typical attack cycle starts with attackers attempting to penetrate endpoints to establish a beachhead. Once inside, adversaries steal and exploit legitimate credentials to escalate privileges, move laterally and progress and attack, often downloading malware or ransomware. At this stage in the threat lifecycle, the adversary is able to encrypt, destroy, or silently exfiltrate sensitive data. In 2021 alone, adversaries launched multiple, destructive attacks that disrupted business and resulted in significant cumulative losses. Hybrid, Remote Workforces and the Proliferation of Workloads Expands the Attack Surface: Organizations everywhere are embracing digital transformation and are becoming more distributed as they adopt the cloud, increase workforce mobility, and grow their number of connected devices. They are adding more workloads to a myriad of different endpoints beyond the traditional cybersecurity perimeter, exposing an increasingly broad attack surface to adversaries. This existing trend was accelerated significantly with the need to support an increasingly remote workforce in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and we believe this trend continues today. In addition, technologies like Cloud and Containers are being adopted quickly, but rather than becoming full-scale replacements, they are often being used as supplements to existing on-premise, bare metal, and virtualized workloads. Growing Cyber Skills Gap: Trained cybersecurity professionals are in high demand, and organizations continue to face a dire shortage of talent to fill much needed cybersecurity positions. As a result, existing cybersecurity teams are often overwhelmed by the velocity of cyberattacks. Adversaries exploit this vacuum by continuing to accelerate their sophisticated attacks. Competitive Market: Existing Security Solutions Are Limited and Exacerbate Ongoing Trends: We believe the aforementioned trends are exacerbated by the architectural limitations of legacy cybersecurity products, which include: On-Premise Security and Bolt-On Cloud Products Lead to Constrained and Impacted Users : On-premise products are siloed, lack integration, and have limited ability to collect, process, and analyze vast amounts of data attributes that are required to be effective in today s increasingly dynamic threat landscape. Meanwhile, these solutions often require more agents on the endpoint as new capabilities are patchworked together, which can have a dramatic negative impact on user performance. 5 Table of Contents Many on-premise vendors have since tried to solve this problem by simply extending on-premise products to the cloud. Since their products were not purpose built to run in the cloud, the traditional on-premise issues - complex to deploy, siloed nature, lack of integration, limited ability to scale, costly to maintain - continue to manifest. We believe that any product that was originally designed for on-premise deployments and migrated to the cloud cannot by definition be a cloud native solution. Legacy Signature-Based Products Are Not Effective Against Unknown Threats : Signature-based products are designed to detect attacks that are already cataloged as previously identified threats. As a result, such products are fundamentally unable to prevent unknown threats resulting from shifts in attacker tradecraft. It often only takes a slight modification on the part of the attacker to bypass signatures. Many significant breaches seen in the last two decades have involved the failure of a legacy signature-based antivirus product to detect a previously unknown or modified version of a previously known attack. Malware-Focused Machine Learning Products Miss Sophisticated Attacks: Traditionally, organizations have focused on protecting their networks and endpoints against malware-based attacks. These attacks involve malware built for the specific purpose of performing malicious activities, stealing data, or destroying systems. A malware-centric defensive approach will leave the organization vulnerable to attacks that do not leverage malware. Application Whitelisting Products Are Ineffective: Application whitelisting products resort to an always allow or always block policy on an endpoint in order to allow or prevent processes from executing. Whitelisting relies in part on manually creating and maintaining a complex list of rules, burdening end users and IT organizations. This does not prevent fileless attacks from exploiting legitimate whitelisted applications, compromising the integrity of the whitelisting product. CrowdStrike: Built for This Moment and the Future We believe that the cloud-native architecture of the Falcon platform and Security Cloud provides a sustainable advantage in addressing the needs of our customers as their business and the threat landscape continues to evolve. We offer our customers compelling business value that includes ease of adoption, rapid time-to-value, superior efficacy rates in detecting threats and preventing breaches, and reduced total cost of ownership by consolidating legacy, siloed security products in a single solution. We also allow thinly-stretched security organizations to automate previously manual tasks, freeing them to focus on their most important objectives. With the Falcon platform, organizations can transform how they combat threats, transforming from slow, manual, and reactionary to fast, automated, and predictive, while gaining visibility across the threat lifecycle. Key benefits of our approach and the CrowdStrike Falcon platform include: The Power of the Crowd: Our crowdsourced data enables every customer to benefit from contributing to the Security Cloud. As more high fidelity data is fed into our Security Cloud, our AI models continue to train and improve, increasing the overall efficacy of the Falcon platform. This creates a powerful network effect that is a key differentiator in our efforts to gain more customers. The Threat Graph is able to contextualize and turn this data into action, automatically delivering protection to every customer. High Efficacy, Low False Positives : The vast telemetry of the Security Cloud and the best practices employed in continually training our AI models results in industry-leading efficacy rates and low false positives. Consolidation of Siloed Products : Integrating and maintaining numerous security products creates blind spots that attackers can exploit is costly to maintain and negatively impacts user performance. Our cloud-native platform approach gives customers a unified approach to address their most critical areas of risk seamlessly. We empower customers to rapidly deploy and scale cloud workload security, next-generation antivirus, endpoint detection and response ( EDR ), device control, host firewall management, vulnerability management, forensic analysis, IT hygiene, threat hunting, identity protection, log management, automated threat intelligence, and Extended Detection and Response ( XDR ) from a single platform. 6 Table of Contents Reducing Agent Bloat : Our single intelligent lightweight agent enables frictionless deployment of our platform at scale, enabling customers to rapidly adopt our technology across any type of workload running on a variety of endpoints. The agent is non-intrusive to the end user, requires no reboots and continues to protect the endpoint and track activity even when offline. Through our single lightweight agent approach, customers can adopt multiple platform modules to address their critical areas of risk without burdening the endpoint with multiple agents. Legacy approaches often require multiple agents as they layer on new capabilities. This can severely impact user performance and create barriers to security. Rapid Time to Value : Our cloud-native platform was built to rapidly scale industry leading protection across the entire enterprise, eliminating the lengthy implementation periods, and professional services engagements that next-gen and legacy competitors require. Our single agent approach enables us to activate new modules in real time. Elite Security Teams as a Force Multiplier: As adversaries continue to employ sophisticated non-malware attacks that exploit user credentials and identities, automation and autonomous security are no longer sufficient on their own. Stopping today s sophisticated attacks requires a combination of powerful automation and elite threat hunting. Our OverWatch threat hunting cloud module combines world-class human intelligence from our elite security experts with the power of the Security Cloud. OverWatch is a force multiplier that extends the capabilities and improves the productivity of our customers security teams. Because our world-class team can see attacks across our entire customer base, their expertise is enhanced by their constant visibility into the threat landscape. Additionally, the insights of our OverWatch team can then be leveraged by the Falcon platform to further enhance its autonomous capabilities, creating a positive feedback loop for our customers. Alleviating the Skills Shortage through Automation : CrowdStrike automates manual tasks to free security teams to focus on their most important job - stopping the breach. Our Falcon Fusion module automates workflows to reduce the need to switch between different security tools and tasks, while our Falcon XDR module provides a unified solution that enables security teams to rapidly and efficiently identify, hunt, and eliminate threats across multiple security domains. Lower Total Cost of Ownership : Our cloud-native platform eliminates our customers need for initial or ongoing purchases of hardware and does not require their personnel to configure, implement or integrate disparate point products. Additionally, our comprehensive platform reduces overall personnel costs associated with ongoing maintenance, as well as the need for software patches and upgrades for separate products. The CrowdStrike Falcon Platform: Built to Innovate and Scale Our platform approach allows us to rapidly innovate, build, and deploy highly integrated modules that address critical customer problems and access additional market opportunities. Our cloud modules integrate seamlessly with the Falcon platform that addresses use cases across corporate workload security, security and vulnerability management, managed security services, IT operations management, threat intelligence services, identity protection, and log management. Our Falcon platform is composed of two tightly integrated proprietary technologies: our lightweight agent and our Security Cloud. The Falcon platform offers a unified set of cloud-delivered technologies that power a wide range of modules including next-generation antivirus, EDR, device control, host firewall management, managed threat hunting, IT hygiene, vulnerability management, and threat intelligence. The Falcon platform also encompasses recently acquired technologies where integration may be ongoing. We can rapidly and cost effectively develop and deliver additional cloud modules on our Falcon platform without the need for additional agents, and are expanding options for our new customers to test modules on a trial basis and in-application trials for existing customers. Our expanding set of open APIs allows customers and partners to build their own capabilities on top of the Falcon platform. With our Falcon platform, we can crowdsource data and deliver a variety of cloud modules to detect and stop breaches. Our modules address the most critical areas of enterprise risk and friction. Our Cloud Modules Our cloud modules integrate seamlessly with the Falcon platform to provide functionality in the endpoint security, security and IT operations (including vulnerability management), and threat intelligence markets. Today, our cloud modules include: 7 Table of Contents Cloud Security Falcon Cloud Workload Protection Cloud Runtime Protection. Falcon Cloud Workload Protection provides comprehensive breach protection at run-time for workloads and containers as well as detecting vulnerabilities before services and images are deployed. Falcon Cloud Workload Protection reduces the attack surface by automatically detecting vulnerabilities, hidden malware, secrets, keys, and more, enabling customers to build, run, and deploy secure applications with speed and confidence. Falcon Horizon Cloud Security Posture Management . Falcon Horizon delivers unified visibility, threat detection, and continuous monitoring and compliance for multi-cloud environments. Falcon Horizon automates the process to detect cloud related misconfigurations, vulnerabilities, and identity-based risks, providing step-by-step remediation and giving developers guardrails to avoid costly mistakes. Discover for Cloud and Containers Cloud Service Discovery. Discover for Cloud and Containers delivers comprehensive visibility of cloud assets, security configurations, workloads and containers across multi-cloud environments so customers can mitigate risks and reduce the attack surface. Endpoint Security Falcon Prevent Next-Generation Antivirus . Falcon Prevent provides next-generation antivirus capabilities to customers, delivering comprehensive protection to defend customers against both malware and fileless attacks. Falcon Insight Endpoint Detection and Response . Falcon Insight provides EDR capabilities to customers, allowing for continuous and comprehensive visibility to notify our customers what is happening on their endpoints in real time. Falcon Device Control Device Control . Falcon Device Control provides administrators with a high degree of visibility and granular control of USB peripheral devices. Falcon Firewall Management Host Firewall Management . Falcon Firewall Management provides centralized management of the firewall capabilities native to the host operating system, allowing customers to create, enforce, and maintain host firewall policies. Extended Detection and Response Falcon XDR - Extended Detection and Response . Falcon XDR extends our industry leading detection, investigation, and response capabilities by incorporating relevant third-party security data. We correlate signals from multiple disparate technologies to deliver XDR detections across the attack surface. We allow customers to investigate these detections and to search and hunt using data from CrowdStrike, as well as third party security sources such as email, cloud access security broker ( CASB ) network threat detection, and identity and firewall data. The CrowdXDR Alliance offers a first-of-its-kind technology ecosystem to enable unified, threat-centric detection and response across an organization s security and technology ecosystem. We believe the CrowdXDR Alliance is differentiating - bringing together industry leaders and cutting-edge solutions to establish an open-source, common XDR ontology for data sharing. Falcon XDR is designed to enhance threat correlation and speeds response times against sophisticated attacks. Security and IT Operations Falcon Discover IT Hygiene . Falcon Discover identifies rogue systems and applications in our customers networks, and monitors the use of privileged user accounts anywhere in a customer s environments. The module also enables use cases outside of security, such as application license management, AWS spend analysis, and asset inventory. Falcon Spotlight Vulnerability Management . Falcon Spotlight identifies vulnerabilities in real time that exist across our customer endpoints. The module does not depend on scanning systems for vulnerabilities, a process that can often take days or weeks for an enterprise, and instead leverages data already collected by our agent to provide instant and accurate real-time visibility into an enterprise s vulnerability exposure. 8 Table of Contents Falcon Forensics Forensic Data for Analysis of Cybersecurity Incidents . Falcon Forensics streamlines the collection of point-in-time and historic forensic triage data for robust analysis of cybersecurity incidents, enabling responders to quickly identify relevant data with preset dashboards and rapidly investigate. Falcon FileVantage File Integrity Monitoring . Falcon FileVantage reduces compliance complexity by building in the services an additional agent would normally provide, including being able to monitor all files on the protected systems. This in turn provides alerts and reports to help meet various compliance requirements imposed by PCI, CIS Controls, and Sarbanes-Oxley. Managed Services Falcon Complete Turnkey Security Solution . Falcon Complete provides comprehensive monitoring, management, response, and remediation solution to our customers and is designed to bring enterprise level security to companies that may lack enterprise level resources. It is backed by an underwritten limited warranty policy for breaches. We also offer Falcon Cloud Workload Protection Complete and Falcon Ident