Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1C C ybersecurity 33 Item 2. Properties 34 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 34 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Reserved 37 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 51 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 51 Item 9B. Other Information 52 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 52 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 52 Item 11. Executive Compensation 52 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 52 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 52 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 52 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 53 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 56 Signatures 57 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F- 1 2 Glossary of Terms The following abbreviations or acronyms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Report") are defined below: Abbreviation or Acronym Definition 2020 Credit Agreement The second amended and restated credit agreement, dated July 1, 2020, which amended and restated in its entirety the then-existing credit agreement originally entered into on April 1, 2014, as amended by the first amendment to the second amended and restated credit agreement, dated May 8, 2023. ACH Automated Clearing House ADR Average daily rate Apartments.com Network Apartments.com, the flagship brand of our network of apartment marketing sites, and its network of rental websites ARS Auction rate securities ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update Audit Committee The Audit Committee of the Board BizBuySell BizBuySell.com and its network of business for-sale websites Board The CoStar Group Board of Directors BureauxLocaux The legal entity, Comreal Info, a French soci t par actions simplifi e, the owner and operator of BureauxLocaux, a commercial real estate digital marketplace, in France BureauxLocaux Acquisition CoStar UK's acquisition of BureauxLocaux completed on October 1, 2021 pursuant to a Share Sale and Purchase Agreement dated October 1, 2021 between CoStar UK, M.A.J.E. Marketing Strategie and an individual Business Immo The legal entity BIH, a French soci t par actions simplifi e, the owner and operator of Business Immo, a leading commercial real estate news service provider in France Business Immo Acquisition CoStar UK's acquisition of the issued share capital of Business Immo on April 5, 2022 CAN-SPAM Act Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act CCPA California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act CECL Current expected credit losses CMBS Commercial mortgage-based securities CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker Confidential Information Information about customers, employees, contractors, suppliers, vendors, and others such as landlords and tenants, including personal information such as names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, credit card information, biometric data, sensitive or confidential transaction and account information, social security numbers, birthdates and financial information (for example, to facilitate the apartment rental application and payment process between a renter and property manager), as well as a broad range of proprietary and confidential business information, collectively CoStar Group The legal entity, CoStar Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries or operating segments, or the entirety of CoStar Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries CoStar UK The legal entity, CoStar UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of CoStar Group Covenant Suspension Period A period of time defined in the 2020 Credit Agreement in which we maintain a corporate investment grade rating from any two of Standard Poor s Rating Services, Fitch Ratings, Inc. or Moody s Investors Services, Inc. and no event of default is continuing CPA Colorado Privacy Act CPRA The California Privacy Rights Act 3 Abbreviation or Acronym Definition CRI CoStar Realty Information, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of CoStar Group, Inc. DSUs Deferred Stock Units E.U. European Union EBITDA Net income before interest income or expense, net; other income or expense, net; loss on debt extinguishment; income taxes; depreciation and amortization ESG Environmental, Social and Governance ESPP Employee Stock Purchase Plan EURIBOR Euro Interbank Offered Rate FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCRA Fair Credit Reporting Act FTC Federal Trade Commission GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. GDPR General Data Protection Regulation GILTI Global intangible low taxed income inclusion GPP Plan A U.K. Group Personal Pension Plan Halo Merger Sub Snapped Halo Merger Sub Corp., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of CoStar Realty Information, Inc. Homes.com A homes-for-sale listings site Homes Group The legal entity Homes Group, LLC Homes.com Acquisition CRI's acquisition of Homes.com completed on May 24, 2021 pursuant to a securities purchase agreement dated April 14, 2021 between Landmark, Homes Group, LLC and CRI Homes.com Network Homes.com, the flagship brand of our North American network of online platforms that manage workflow and marketing for residential real estate agents and brokers and provide portals for homebuyers to view residential property listings Homesnap Homesnap is an online and mobile software platform that provides residential real estate professionals access to applications that manage residential real estate agent workflow and marketing campaigns delivered on third-party platforms acquired in the Homesnap Acquisition Homesnap, Inc. The legal entity Homesnap, Inc., a Delaware corporation Homesnap Acquisition CRI's acquisition of Homesnap completed on December 22, 2020, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated November 20, 2020 between CRI, Halo Merger Sub Corp and Homesnap, Inc. Halo Merger Sub Corp. was merged with and into Homesnap, Inc., with Homesnap, Inc. surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of CRI ILS Internet listings services IT Systems Information technology networks, systems and infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients and vendors, collectively Land.com Network Our network of sites featuring rural lands for sale including: LandsofAmerica, LandAndFarm and LandWatch Landmark Landmark Media Enterprises, LLC LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LoopNet Network Our network of online marketplaces, including LoopNet.co.uk, CityFeet.com and Showcase.com, enabling commercial property owners, landlords and real estate brokers working on their behalf to advertise properties for-sale or for-lease and to submit detailed information about property listings Matching RSUs Awards of matching restricted stock units awarded under the Company's Management Stock Purchase Plan MLS Multiple listing services MSPP Management Stock Purchase Plan 4 Abbreviation or Acronym Definition OnTheMarket The legal entity OnTheMarket Plc, the operator of onthemarket.com, a leading U.K. residential property portal. OnTheMarket Acquisition CoStar UK's acquisition of OnTheMarket completed in December 2023, pursuant to Rule 2.7 of the United Kingdom City Code on Takeovers and Mergers. The acquisition has been implemented by means of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under the U.K. Companies Act 2006 RentPath RentPath Holdings, Inc. RevPAR Revenue per available room ROU Right-of-use RRSP A Canadian registered retirement savings plan SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended SEM Search Engine Marketing Senior Notes 2.800% notes issued by CoStar Group, Inc. due July 15, 2030 SEO Search Engine Optimization SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SONIA Sterling Overnight Index Average STAR Report A benchmarking tool used by the hospitality industry to compare a hotel's performance against a set of similar hotels in the same geographical area STR STR, LLC together with STR Global Ltd is a global data and analytics company that specializes in benchmarking hotel performance and providing market insights to the industry TCPA Telephone Consumer Protection Act (as implemented by the Telemarketing Sales Rule) Ten-X The legal entity Ten-X Holding Company, Inc. and its directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries Ten-X Acquisition CRI's acquisition of Ten-X completed on June 24, 2020, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 13, 2020 between CRI, Crescendo Sub, Inc, and Ten-X Term SOFR The forward-looking SOFR term rates administered by CME Group Benchmark Administration Limited TSR Total shareholder return U.K. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland U.S. The United States of America UCPA Utah Consumer Privacy Act VCDPA Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act 5 Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our other reports filed with the SEC, press releases and conference calls that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for the year ending December 31, 2024 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally and other statements and information regarding assumptions or expectations about our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margin percentage, net income, net income per share, fully diluted net income per share, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per diluted share, weighted-average outstanding shares, cash flow from operating activities, operating costs, capital and other expenditures, the impact of current economic conditions on our revenues, revenue growth rates and profitability, key priorities for the year ending December 31, 2024, trends in customer behavior, legal proceedings and claims, legal costs, effective tax rate, product development and release, the anticipated benefits of completed or proposed acquisitions, the anticipated timing of acquisition closings and integrations, the anticipated benefits of cross-selling efforts, geographic and product expansion, planned service enhancements, expansion and development of our sales forces, planned sales and marketing activities and investments, investments in residential marketplace services and our residential marketplace strategy, the impact or results of sales and marketing initiatives, product integrations, elimination and de-emphasizing of services, net new bookings, contract renewal rates, use of proceeds from equity and debt offerings, the use of proceeds from any draws under our $750 million credit facility provided by the 2020 Credit Agreement, expectations regarding our compliance with financial and restrictive covenants in the 2020 Credit Agreement, employee relations, management s plans, goals and objectives for future operations, sources and adequacy of liquidity and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report that contain forward-looking statements include Business, Risk Factors, Properties, Legal Proceedings, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Controls and Procedures and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Our forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as hope, anticipate, may, believe, expect, intend, will, should, plan, estimate, predict, continue and potential or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. You should understand that these forward-looking statements are estimates reflecting our judgment, beliefs and expectations, not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. The following important factors, in addition to those discussed or referred to under the heading Risk Factors, and other unforeseen events or circumstances, could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements: our inability to attract and retain new clients; our inability to successfully develop and introduce new or updated information, analytics and online marketplace services; our inability to compete successfully against existing or future competitors in attracting advertisers and in general; competition; the effects of fluctuations and market cyclicality; the effects of global economic uncertainties and downturns or a downturn or consolidation in the real estate industry; our inability to hire qualified persons for, or retain and continue to develop, our sales force, or unproductivity of our sales force; our inability to retain and attract highly capable management and operating personnel; the downward pressure that our internal and external investments may place on our operating margins; our inability in increasing brand awareness; our inability to maintain or increase internet traffic to our marketplaces, and the risk that the methods, including Google Analytics, that we use to measure unique visitors to our portals may misstate the actual number of unique persons who visit our network of mobile applications and websites for a given month or may differ from the methods used by competitors; our inability to attract new advertisers; our inability to successfully identify, finance, integrate and/or manage costs related to acquisitions; the effects of cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities, and technical problems or disruptions; the risks related to a large infrastructure project to build out our campus in Richmond, Virginia; our inability to generate increased revenues from our current or future geographic expansion plans; the risks related to acceptance of credit cards and debit cards and facilitation of other customer payments; the effects of climate change and other events beyond our control; the effects related to increased attention to ESG matters; our inability to obtain and maintain accurate, comprehensive or reliable data; 6 our ability to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property; our inability to successfully halt the operation of websites that aggregate our data, data from other companies or copycat websites that may misappropriate our data; our inability to defend against potential legal liability for collecting, displaying or distributing information; our inability to obtain or retain listings from real estate brokers, agents, property owners and apartment property managers; our ability to maintain or establish relationships with third-party listing providers; our ability to comply with the rules and compliance requirements of MLSs; the risks related to international operations; the effects of foreign currency fluctuations; the effects of Brexit; our indebtedness; the effects of a lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies; the effects of any actual or perceived failure to comply with privacy or data protection laws, regulations or standards; the effects of changes in tax laws, regulations or fiscal and tax policies; the effects of third-party claims, litigation, regulatory proceedings or government investigations; and risks related to return on investment. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of, and are based on information available to us on, the date of this Report. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to update any such statements or release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect new information or events or circumstances after the date of this Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. PART I Item 1. Business In this Report, the words we, our, us, CoStar Group or the Company refer to CoStar Group, Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. This Report also refers to our websites, but information contained on those sites is not part of this Report. CoStar Group, founded in 1987, is a leading provider of online real estate marketplaces, information and analytics in the U.S. and U.K. based on the fact that we own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S., based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors; offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; and have the largest commercial real estate research department in the industry. We have created and compiled a standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate, including apartments, and the related business communities, can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, land, mixed-use and hospitality. Through our Homes.com Network and our acquisition of OnTheMarket, we also offer online platforms that manage workflow and marketing for residential real estate agents and brokers and provide portals for homebuyers to view residential property listings. Industry Overview The market for real estate information and analysis is vast, based on the variety, volume and value of transactions related to real estate. Each transaction has multiple participants and multiple information requirements, and in order to facilitate transactions, industry participants must have extensive, accurate and current information and analysis. Members of the real estate and related business community require daily access to current data such as space availability, properties for-sale, rental units available, rental rates, vacancy rates, tenant movements, comparable sales, supply, new construction, absorption rates and other important market developments to carry out their businesses effectively. Market research (including historical and forecast conditions) and applied analytics are instrumental to the success of industry participants. There is a strong need for an efficient marketplace, where real estate professionals can exchange information, evaluate opportunities using standardized data and interpretive analyses and interact with each other on a continuous basis. A large number of parties involved in commercial and residential real estate and the related business community make use of the services we provide in order to obtain information they need to conduct their businesses, including: 7 Sales and leasing brokers Government agencies Property owners Mortgage-backed security issuers Property managers Appraisers Design and construction professionals Pension fund managers Real estate developers Reporters Real estate investment trust managers Tenant vendors Investment and commercial bankers Building services vendors Mortgage bankers Communications providers Mortgage brokers Insurance companies managers Retailers Institutional advisors Hospitality owners Investors and asset managers Real estate agents The commercial real estate and related business community historically operated in an inefficient marketplace because of the fragmented approach to gathering and exchanging information within the marketplace. Various organizations, including hundreds of brokerage firms, directory publishers and local research companies, collected data on specific markets and developed software to analyze the information they independently gathered. This highly fragmented methodology resulted in duplication of efforts in the collection and analysis of information, excessive internal cost and the creation of non-standardized data containing varying degrees of accuracy and comprehensiveness, resulting in a formidable information gap. The creation and maintenance of a standardized information platform for commercial real estate requires infrastructure including a standardized database, accurate and comprehensive research capabilities, experienced analysts, easy-to-use technology and intensive participant interaction. By combining our extensive database, researchers, our experienced team of analysts and economists, technological expertise and broad customer base, we believe that we have created such a platform. The apartment rental advertising industry serves property managers and owners who are tasked with finding renters to occupy vacant apartments, as well as renters who are searching for their next home. Property managers have several options at their disposal, including their own websites, drive-by and outdoor advertising, traditional classified ads, free online listing services, search engine marketing and ILS, like Apartments.com and the network of apartment listing websites we own and operate. Many apartment ILS websites feature only the rental availabilities that larger property owners pay to advertise, resulting in a poor user experience in which the renter s search criteria return either limited or no results, irrelevant results or stale results that do not represent actual availabilities. We believe that consumers expect accurate, actionable and comprehensive apartment rental information. Our apartment ILS websites include renter-focused features like the ability to filter search results according to various criteria (e.g., commute time to work); professional images of the properties, including immersive videos and 3-D interactive models; custom neighborhood profiles; and tenant reviews. Our network of apartment listing websites draws on our multifamily database and includes researched and verified information. We proactively gather information on available rentals to improve the accuracy of the listings on our apartment ILS websites, including real time unit-level availability, current pricing and rent specials. We have continually invested in our network to improve the features and services offered to property managers and website users. Recent additions include: dynamic lead forms that provide more information about prospective residents, making rent trends information publicly available, free digital ad retargeting and integrated online rental solutions, including lease applications with tenant credit and background checks. We believe that we have created and maintain easily searchable apartment ILS websites with a comprehensive selection of rentals, information on actual rental availabilities and rents and in-depth data on neighborhoods, as well as easy to use and actionable tools for the rental process. We believe that consumers expect accurate, actionable and comprehensive homes-for-sale information on a platform that allows collaboration between homebuyers and agents. Our residential websites include homebuyer-focused features like the ability to filter search results according to various criteria (e.g., home features, view and lot type), review rankings of nearby schools and tools to educate consumers on the home buying process. We plan to develop original, media-rich content of neighborhoods, schools, parks and condominium buildings' amenities and common areas to supplement information in agent listings. We are designing tools to facilitate collaboration between homebuyers and agents. 8 Strategy Our strategy is to provide real estate industry professionals and consumers with critical knowledge to explore and complete transactions by offering the most comprehensive, timely and standardized information on real estate and the right tools to be able to effectively utilize that information. Over time, we have expanded, and we continue to expand, our services for real estate information, analytics and online marketplaces in an effort to continue to meet the needs of the industry as it grows and evolves. Our standardized platform includes the most comprehensive proprietary database of commercial real estate information in the industry; the largest research department in the commercial real estate industry; proprietary data collection, information management and quality control systems; a large in-house product development team; a broad suite of web-based information, analytics and online marketplace services; a large team of analysts and economists; risk management tools; and a large, diverse base of clients. Our database has been developed and enhanced for more than 35 years by a research department that makes daily database updates. In addition to our internal efforts to grow the database, we have obtained and assimilated a number of proprietary databases. Our comprehensive commercial real estate database powers our information services, sources data used in our analytic services and provides content for most of our online marketplace services and our auction platform. Our ability to utilize the same commercial real estate information across our standardized platform creates efficiencies in operations and improves data quality for our customers. We deliver our comprehensive commercial real estate information content to our customers primarily via an integrated solution of online service offerings that includes information about space available for-lease, comparable sales information, information about properties for-sale, tenant information, internet marketing services, risk management tools, analytical capabilities, information for clients websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We also operate complementary online marketplaces for commercial and residential real estate listings and apartment rentals, as well as a commercial real estate auction platform. We strive to cross-sell our services to our customers in order to best suit their needs. We manage and report our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which primarily includes Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. Information about our revenues, long-lived assets and total assets derived from and located in foreign countries is included in Notes 2, 3 and 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Report. Revenues, EBITDA and total assets and liabilities for each of our segments are set forth in Notes 3 and 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV of this Report. Information about risks associated with our foreign operations is included in