Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 47 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B. Other Information 48 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 48 Item 11. Executive Compensation 48 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 48 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 48 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 48 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 49 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 52 Signatures 53 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 3 PART I Item 1. Business In this report, the words we, our, us, CoStar or the Company refer to CoStar Group, Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. This report also refers to our websites, but information contained on those sites is not part of this report. CoStar Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, founded in 1987, is the number one provider of information, analytics and online marketplaces to the commercial real estate industry in the United States ( U.S. ) and United Kingdom ( U.K. ) based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S. based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; and provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors. We have created and compiled a standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate, including apartments, and the related business communities, can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use and hospitality. We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which primarily includes Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. On October 22, 2019, we acquired STR, Inc. and STR Global, Ltd. (together with STR, Inc., "STR"), which provides benchmarking and analytics for the hospitality industry. See Note 4 to the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of this acquisition. Strategy Our strategy is to provide industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate and apartments with critical knowledge to explore and complete transactions by offering the most comprehensive, timely and standardized information on commercial real estate and apartments and the right tools to be able to effectively utilize that information. Over time, we have expanded, and we continue to expand, our services for commercial real estate information, analytics and online marketplaces in an effort to continue to meet the needs of the industry as it grows and evolves. Our standardized platform includes the most comprehensive proprietary database in the industry; the largest research department in the industry; proprietary data collection, information management and quality control systems; a large in-house product development team; a broad suite of web-based information, analytics and online marketplace services; a large team of analysts and economists; and a large, diverse base of clients. Our database has been developed and enhanced for more than 30 years by a research department that makes thousands of daily database updates. In addition to our internal efforts to grow the database, we have obtained and assimilated a significant number of proprietary databases. Our comprehensive commercial real estate database powers our information services, sources data used in our analytic services and provides content for most of our online marketplace services. Our ability to utilize the same commercial real estate information across our standardized platform creates efficiencies in operations and improves data quality for our customers. We deliver our comprehensive commercial real estate information content to our U.S. and certain customers in Europe primarily via an integrated suite of online service offerings that includes information about space available for-lease, comparable sales information, information about properties for-sale, tenant information, Internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We also operate complementary online marketplaces for commercial real estate listings and apartment rentals. We strive to cross-sell our services to our customers in order to best suit their needs. Information about our revenues, long-lived assets and total assets derived from and located in foreign countries is included in Notes 2 , 3 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenues; net income (loss) before interest and other income (expense), income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ); and total assets and liabilities for each of our segments are set forth in Notes 3 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements. Information about risks associated with our foreign operations is included in