Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. Reserved 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 47 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B. Other Information 48 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 48 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 48 Item 11. Executive Compensation 48 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 48 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 49 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 49 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 50 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 53 Signatures 54 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F- 1 2 Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our other reports filed with the SEC, press releases and conference calls that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2022 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally and other statements and information regarding assumptions or expectations about our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margin percentage, net income, net income per share, fully diluted net income per share, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) net income, non-GAAP net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, cash flow from operating activities, operating costs, capital and other expenditures, the current and future impacts of COVID-19 on our operations, our actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, key priorities for 2022, trends in customer behavior, legal proceedings and claims, legal costs, effective tax rate, product development and release, the anticipated benefits of completed or proposed acquisitions, the anticipated timing of acquisition closings and integrations, the anticipated benefits of cross-selling efforts, geographic and product expansion, planned service enhancements, expansion and development of our sales forces, planned sales and marketing activities and investments, investments in residential marketplace services and our residential marketplace strategy, the impact or results of sales and marketing initiatives, product integrations, elimination and de-emphasizing of services, net new sales, contract renewal rates, use of proceeds from equity and debt offerings, the use of proceeds of any draws under our $750 million credit facility (the 2020 Credit Agreement ), expectations regarding our compliance with financial and restrictive covenants in the 2020 Credit Agreement, employee relations, management s plans, goals and objectives for future operations, sources and adequacy of liquidity and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include Business, Risk Factors, Properties, Legal Proceedings, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Controls and Procedures and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Our forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as hope, anticipate, may, believe, expect, intend, will, should, plan, estimate, predict, continue and potential or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. You should understand that these forward-looking statements are estimates reflecting our judgment, beliefs and expectations, not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. The following important factors, in addition to those discussed or referred to under the heading Risk Factors, and other unforeseen events or circumstances, could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements: the effects of and uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, including the duration and magnitude of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the emergence of new strains, such as "Delta," "Omicron" and future variants, disruption of the international and national economy and credit markets; actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the COVID-19 pandemic such as office and other workplace closures, worker absenteeism or decreased productivity, quarantines, mass-transit disruptions or other travel or health-related restrictions; how quickly economies, including the real estate industry in particular, recover after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides; real estate market conditions; general economic conditions, both domestic and international, including the impacts of any international conflicts and uncertainty from the expected discontinuance of LIBOR and the transition to any other interest rate benchmarks; our ability to identify, acquire and integrate additional acquisition candidates; our ability to realize the expected benefits, cost savings or other synergies from acquisitions, including Homesnap and Homes.com, on a timely basis or at all; our ability to combine acquired businesses successfully or in a timely and cost-efficient manner; business disruption relating to integration of acquired businesses or other business initiatives; the risk that expected investments in acquired businesses, or the timing of any such investments, may change or may not produce the expected results; our ability to transition acquired service platforms to our model in a timely manner or at all; changes and developments in business plans or operations; theft of any personally identifiable information we, or the businesses that we acquire, maintain, store or process; any actual or perceived failure to comply with privacy or data protection laws, regulations or standards; any disruption of our systems, including due to any cyberattack or other similar event; the amount of investment for sales and marketing and our ability to realize a return on investments in sales and marketing; our ability to effectively and strategically combine, eliminate or de-emphasize service offerings; reductions in revenues as a result of service changes; the time and resources required to develop upgraded or new services and to expand service offerings; changes or consolidations within the real estate industry; customer retention; our ability to attract new clients and to sell additional services to existing clients; our ability to develop, successfully introduce and cross-sell new products or upgraded services in the United States ( U.S. ) and foreign markets; our ability to attract consumers to our online marketplaces; our ability to increase traffic on our network of sites; the success of our marketing campaigns in generating brand awareness and site traffic; our ability to protect and defend our intellectual property, including against unauthorized or unlicensed use of our services; competition; foreign currency fluctuations; global credit market conditions affecting investments; our ability to continue to expand successfully, timely and in a cost-efficient manner, including internationally; our ability to effectively penetrate and gain acceptance in new sectors and geographies; our ability to control costs; litigation or government investigations in which we become involved; changes in accounting policies or practices; release of new and upgraded services or entry into new markets by us or our competitors; data quality; expansion, growth, development or reorganization of our sales force; employee retention, including retention of employees of acquired businesses; 3 technical problems with our services; managerial execution; changes in relationships with real estate agents, brokers, owners, property managers and other strategic partners; legal and regulatory issues, including any actual or perceived failure to comply with U.S. or international laws, rules or regulations; successful adoption of and training on our services; and the availability of capital. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of, and are based on information available to us on, the date of this Report. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to update any such statements or release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect new information or events or circumstances after the date of this Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. PART I Item 1. Business In this report, the words we, our, us, CoStar Group or the Company refer to CoStar Group, Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. This report also refers to our websites, but information contained on those sites is not part of this report. CoStar Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, founded in 1987, is a leading provider of online real estate marketplaces, information and analytics in the United States ( U.S. ) and United Kingdom ( U.K. ) based on the fact that we own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S., based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors; offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; and have the largest commercial real estate research department in the industry. We have created and compiled a standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate, including apartments, and the related business communities, can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use and hospitality. With our recent acquisitions of Homesnap, Inc., ( Homesnap ) and Homes Group, LLC ( Homes.com ) we also offer online platforms that manage workflow and marketing for residential real estate agents and brokers and provide residential property listings for homebuyers. We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which primarily includes Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. Our most recent strategic acquisitions include Homesnap (acquired in December 2020); Homes.com (acquired in May 2021) and Comreal Info, a French soci t par actions simplifi e ("BureauxLocaux"), the owner and operator of BureauxLocaux, a commercial real estate digital marketplace, in France (acquired in October 2021). See Notes 5 and 9 to the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these acquisitions. Strategy Our strategy is to provide real estate industry professionals and consumers with critical knowledge to explore and complete transactions by offering the most comprehensive, timely and standardized information on real estate and the right tools to be able to effectively utilize that information. Over time, we have expanded, and we continue to expand, our services for real estate information, analytics and online marketplaces in an effort to continue to meet the needs of the industry as it grows and evolves. Our standardized platform includes the most comprehensive proprietary database of commercial real estate information in the industry; the largest research department in the commercial real estate industry; proprietary data collection, information management and quality control systems; a large in-house product development team; a broad suite of web-based information, analytics and online marketplace services; a large team of analysts and economists; and a large, diverse base of clients. Our database has been developed and enhanced for more than 30 years by a research department that makes daily database updates. In addition to our internal efforts to grow the database, we have obtained and assimilated a number of proprietary databases. Our comprehensive commercial real estate database powers our information services, sources data used in our analytic services and provides content for most of our online marketplace services and our auction platform. Our ability to utilize the same commercial real estate information across our standardized platform creates efficiencies in operations and improves data quality for our customers. We deliver our comprehensive commercial real estate information content to our North American and European customers primarily via an integrated solution of online service offerings that includes information about space available for-lease, 4 comparable sales information, information about properties for-sale, tenant information, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We also operate complementary online marketplaces for commercial and residential real estate listings and apartment rentals, as well as a commercial real estate auction platform. We strive to cross-sell our services to our customers in order to best suit their needs. Information about our revenues, long-lived assets and total assets derived from and located in foreign countries is included in Notes 2, 3 and 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenues; net income before interest and other income (expense), income taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ); and total assets and liabilities for each of our segments are set forth in Notes 3 and 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about risks associated with our foreign operations is included in