Item 1. Business CSX Corporation, together with its subsidiaries ("CSX" or the Company ), based in Jacksonville, Florida, is one of the nation's leading transportation companies. The Company provides rail-based freight transportation services including traditional rail service, the transport of intermodal containers and trailers, as well as other transportation services such as rail-to-truck transfers and bulk commodity operations. CSX and the rail industry provide customers with access to an expansive and interconnected transportation network that plays a key role in North American commerce and is critical to the long-term economic success and improved global competitiveness of the United States. In addition, freight railroads provide the most economical and environmentally efficient means to transport goods over land. CSX Transportation, Inc. CSX s principal operating subsidiary, CSX Transportation, Inc. ( CSXT ), provides an important link to the transportation supply chain through its approximately 20,000 route-mile rail network and serves major population centers in 26 states east of the Mississippi River, the District of Columbia and the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec. It has access to over 70 ocean, river and lake port terminals along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, the Mississippi River, the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence Seaway. This access allows the Company to meet the dynamic transportation needs of manufacturers, industrial producers, the automotive industry, construction companies, farmers and feed mills, wholesalers and retailers, and energy producers. The Company s intermodal business links customers to railroads via trucks and terminals. CSXT also serves thousands of production and distribution facilities through track connections with other Class I railroads and more than 240 short-line and regional railroads. On June 1, 2022, CSX completed its acquisition of Pan Am Systems, Inc. ( Pan Am ), which is the parent company of Pan Am Railways, Inc. This acquisition expanded CSXT s reach in the Northeastern United States. For further details, refer to Note 17, Business Combinations. CSXT is also responsible for the Company's real estate sales, leasing, acquisition and management and development activities. Substantially all of these activities are focused on supporting railroad operations. Other Entities In addition to CSXT, the Company s subsidiaries include Quality Carriers, Inc. ("Quality Carriers"), CSX Intermodal Terminals, Inc. ( CSX Intermodal Terminals ), Total Distribution Services, Inc. ( TDSI ), TRANSFLO Terminal Services, Inc. ( TRANSFLO ), CSX Technology, Inc. ( CSX Technology ) and other subsidiaries. Effective July 1, 2021, CSX acquired Quality Carriers, the largest provider of bulk liquid chemicals truck transportation in North America. For further details, refer to Note 17, Business Combinations. CSX Intermodal Terminals owns and operates a system of intermodal terminals, predominantly in the eastern United States, and also provides drayage services (the pickup and delivery of intermodal shipments) for certain customers. TDSI serves the automotive industry with distribution centers and storage locations. TRANSFLO connects non-rail served customers to the many benefits of rail by transferring products from rail to trucks. The biggest TRANSFLO markets are chemicals and agriculture, which includes shipments of plastics and ethanol. CSX Technology and other subsidiaries provide support services for the Company. Operating Model The Company is focused on developing and strictly maintaining a scheduled service plan with an emphasis on improving customer service, optimizing assets and increasing employee engagement. When this operating model is executed effectively, the Company competes for an increased share of the U.S. freight market. Further, this model leads to reduced costs and strong free cash flow generation. CSX 2023 Form 10-K p.3 CSX CORPORATION PART I Lines of Business During 2023, the Company's services generated $14.7 billion of revenue and served four primary lines of business: merchandise, intermodal, coal and trucking. The merchandise business shipped 2.6 million carloads (43% of volume) and generated $8.7 billion in revenue (59% of revenue) in 2023. The Company s merchandise business is comprised of shipments in the following diverse markets: chemicals, agricultural and food products, automotive, minerals, forest products, metals and equipment, and fertilizers. The intermodal business shipped 2.8 million units (45% of volume) and generated $2.1 billion in revenue (14% of revenue) in 2023. The intermodal business combines the superior economics of rail transportation with the flexibility of trucks and offers a cost and environmental advantage over long-haul trucking. Through a network of approximately 30 terminals, the intermodal business serves all major markets east of the Mississippi River and transports mainly manufactured consumer goods in containers, providing customers with truck-like service for longer shipments. The coal business shipped 755 thousand carloads (12% of volume) and generated $2.5 billion in revenue (17% of revenue) in 2023. The Company transports domestic coal, coke and iron ore to electricity-generating power plants, steel manufacturers and industrial plants as well as export coal to deep-water port facilities. Most of the export coal the Company transports is used for steelmaking, while the majority of domestic coal the Company ships is used for electricity generation. The trucking business generated $882 million, or 6%, of revenue in 2023. Trucking revenue includes revenue from the operations of Quality Carriers, which was acquired by CSX effective July 1, 2021. Other revenue accounted for 4% of the Company s total revenue in 2023. This category includes revenue from regional subsidiary railroads and incidental charges, including intermodal storage and equipment usage, demurrage and switching. Revenue from regional subsidiary railroads includes shipments by railroads that the Company does not directly operate. Intermodal storage represents charges for customer storage of containers at an intermodal terminal, ramp facility or offsite location beyond a specified period of time. Demurrage represents charges assessed when freight cars are held by a customer beyond a specified period of time. Switching represents charges assessed when a railroad switches cars for a customer or another railroad. CSX's Committed Workforce Most of the Company s employees provide or support transportation services. The Company had more than 23,000 employees as of December 2023, which includes approximately 17,700 employees that are members of a rail labor union. As of December 2, 2022, all 12 rail unions at CSX that participated in national bargaining were covered by national agreements with the Class I railroads and CSX-specific agreements that will remain in effect through December 31, 2024. Collective agreements under the Railway Labor Act do not expire, but continue until amended, and formal notices to amend these agreements may be served as early as November 1, 2024. CSX prioritizes workplace safety for employees and is committed to continued improvement through enhanced processes, training, technology, communication, and continuous collaboration with customers and peers across the railroad industry. Training programs and processes are focused on injury and accident prevention as well as emergency preparedness. The attainment of key safety targets is a component of management's annual incentive program. The FRA Personal Injury Frequency Index, a measure of the number of FRA-reportable injuries per 200,000 man-hours, was 0.89 in 2023 and 1.01 in 2022, improving year over year. CSX 2023 Form 10-K p.4 CSX CORPORATION PART I The Compensation and Talent Management Committee of the Board of Directors is charged with oversight of CSX's workforce. The Company is committed to developing a culture that promotes workforce diversity and inclusion and encourages ethical behavior. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 23% of CSX's overall workforce and 37% of management was diverse, calculated as the percentage of males of color and all females. In 2023, CSX was recognized as a Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion by Disability:IN and the American Association of People with Disabilities for a fifth consecutive year after receiving a top score on their disability equality index. The CSX Code of Ethics serves as a guiding standard for ethical behavior and covers many types of matters, including discrimination and harassment as well as safety. Annually, all management employees are required, and union employees are highly encouraged, to complete ethics training. Company History A leader in freight rail transportation for nearly 200 years, the Company s heritage dates back to the early nineteenth century when The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company ( B O ), the nation s first common carrier, was chartered in 1827. Since that time, the Company has built on this foundation to create a railroad that could safely and reliably service the ever-increasing demands of a growing nation. Since its founding, numerous railroads have combined with the former B O through merger and consolidation to create what has become CSX. Each of the railroads that combined into the CSX family brought new geographical reach to valuable markets, gateways, cities, ports and transportation corridors. CSX Corporation was incorporated in 1978 under Virginia law. In 1980, the Company completed the merger of the Chessie System and Seaboard Coast Line Industries into CSX. The merger allowed the Company to connect northern population centers and Appalachian coal fields to growing southeastern markets. Later, the Company s acquisition of key portions of Conrail, Inc. ("Conrail") allowed CSXT to link the northeast, including New England and the New York metropolitan area, with Chicago and midwestern markets as well as the growing areas in the Southeast already served by CSXT. This current rail network, which now includes the network acquired from Pan Am, allows the Company to directly serve every major market in the eastern United States with safe, dependable, environmentally responsible and fuel efficient freight transportation and intermodal service. Competition The business environment in which the Company operates is highly competitive. Shippers typically select transportation providers that offer the most compelling combination of service and price. Service requirements, both in terms of transit time and reliability, vary by shipper and commodity. As a result, the Company s primary competition varies by commodity, geographic location and mode of available transportation and includes other railroads, motor carriers that operate similar routes across its service area and, to a less significant extent, barges, ships and pipelines. CSXT s primary rail competitor is Norfolk Southern Railway, which operates throughout much of the Company s territory. Other railroads also operate in parts of the Company s territory. Depending on the specific market, competing railroads and deregulated motor carriers may exert pressure on price and service levels. For further discussion on the risk of competition to the Company, see