Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 10 Item 2. Properties 11 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 12 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 12 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 13 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 15 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 16 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 70 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 70 Item 9B. Other Information 70 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 71 Item 11. Executive Compensation 71 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 71 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 71 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 71 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 72 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 75 2 Part I Item 1. Business Cintas Corporation (Cintas, Company, we, us or our), a Washington corporation, helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes, primarily in the United States (U.S.), as well as Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia, get READY to open their doors with confidence every day by providing a wide range of products and services that enhance our customers image and help keep their facilities and employees clean, safe and looking their best. With products and services including uniforms, mats, mops, restroom supplies, first aid and safety products, fire extinguishers and testing, and training and compliance courses, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday . Cintas was founded in 1968 by Richard T. Farmer, currently the Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Directors, when he left his family's industrial laundry business in order to develop uniform programs using an exclusive new fabric. In the early 1970's, Cintas acquired the family industrial laundry business. Over the years, Cintas developed additional products and services that complemented its core uniform business and broadened the scope of products and services available to its customers. Cintas reportable operating segments are the Uniform Rental and Facility Services operating segment and the First Aid and Safety Services operating segment. The Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments, including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies, carpet and tile cleaning services and the sale of items from our catalogs to our customers on route are included within this reportable operating segment. The First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment consists of first aid and safety products and services. The remainder of Cintas business, which consists of the Fire Protection Services operating segment and the Uniform Direct Sale operating segment, is included in All Other. In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was reported to have surfaced in Wuhan, China, and has since spread globally. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. Through the first three quarters of fiscal 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic did not have a significant impact on our business. However, efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 intensified during our fiscal 2020 fourth quarter. Most states and municipalities within the U.S. enacted temporary closures of businesses, issued quarantine orders and took other restrictive measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Within the U.S., our business has been designated an essential business, which allows us to continue to serve customers that remain open. We have operations throughout the U.S. and participate in a global supply chain. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the existence of the COVID-19 pandemic, the fear associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and the reactions of governments around the world in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to regulate the flow of labor and products and impede the business of our customers, impacted our ability to conduct normal business operations, which had an adverse effect on our business. If we need to close any of our facilities or a critical number of our employees become too ill to work, our business operations could be materially adversely affected in a rapid manner. Similarly, if our customers experience adverse business consequences due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including being required to shut down their operations, demand for our services and products could also be materially adversely affected in a rapid manner. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is fluid and continues to evolve, and therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity will ultimately be impacted. For more information, see the sections entitled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and Risk Factors within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We provide our products and services to over one million businesses of all types, from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. This diversity in customer base results in no individual customer accounting for greater than one percent of Cintas' total revenue. As a result, the loss of one account would not have a significant financial impact on Cintas. 3 The following table sets forth Cintas' total revenue and the revenue derived from each reportable operating segment and the remaining operating segments included in the All Other category for the fiscal years ended May 31: (In thousands) 2020 2019 2018 Uniform Rental and Facility Services $ 5,643,494 $ 5,552,430 $ 5,247,124 First Aid and Safety Services 708,569 619,470 564,706 All Other 733,057 720,403 664,802 Total Revenue $ 7,085,120 $ 6,892,303 $ 6,476,632 Additional information regarding each reportable operating segment and All Other is also included in Note 1 4 entitled Operating Segment Information of " Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. " The primary markets served by all Cintas businesses are local in nature and highly fragmented. Cintas competes with national, regional and local providers, and the level of competition varies at each of Cintas' local operations. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in each of our businesses. Within the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, Cintas provides its products and services to customers via local delivery routes originating from rental processing plants and branches. Within the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other, Cintas provides its products and services via its distribution network and local delivery routes or local representatives. At May 31, 2020, Cintas, in total, had approximately 11,100 local delivery routes, 472 operational facilities and 12 distribution centers, and Cintas employed approximately 40,000 employee-partners, of which approximately 1,200 were represented by labor unions. Cintas sources finished products from many outside suppliers. In addition, Cintas operates five manufacturing facilities that provide for standard uniform needs. Cintas purchases fabric, used in the manufacturing of its products, from several suppliers. Cintas is not aware of any circumstances that would hinder its ability to continue obtaining these materials. Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the uniform rental industry. While environmental compliance is not a material component of its costs, Cintas must incur capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water treatment and waste removal, on a regular basis. Environmental spending related to water treatment and waste removal was approximately $20 million in fiscal 2020, approximately $21 million in fiscal 2019 and approximately $20 million in fiscal 2018. Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances totaled approximately $3 million in fiscal 2020, approximately $10 million in fiscal 2019 and approximately $2 million in fiscal 2018. Cintas uses its corporate website, www.cintas.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. Cintas files with or furnishes to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site located at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Cintas, that file electronically with the SEC. Cintas' SEC filings can be found on the Investors page of its website at www.cintas.com/investors/financials.aspx and its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics can be found on the About Us page of its website at www.cintas.com/company. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling Cintas as set forth on the Investor Information page. The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. 4