Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. [ R eserv ed] 18 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69 Item 9B. Other Information 69 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 69 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 73 3 Part I Item 1. Business Overview Cintas Corporation (Cintas, Company, we, us or our), a Washington corporation, helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes, primarily in the United States (U.S.), as well as Canada and Latin America, get READY to open their doors with confidence every day by providing a wide range of products and services that enhance our customers image and help keep their facilities and employees clean, safe and looking their best. With products and services including uniforms, mats, mops, restroom supplies, first aid and safety products, fire extinguishers and testing, and safety training, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday . Cintas was founded in 1968 by Richard T. Farmer when he left his family's industrial laundry business in order to develop uniform programs using an exclusive new fabric. In the early 1970's, Cintas acquired the family industrial laundry business. Over the years, Cintas developed additional products and services that complemented its core uniform business and broadened the scope of products and services available to its customers. Business Segments Cintas reportable operating segments are the Uniform Rental and Facility Services operating segment and the First Aid and Safety Services operating segment. The Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments, including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies and the sale of items from our catalogs to our customers on route are included within this reportable operating segment. The First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment consists of first aid and safety products and services. The remainder of Cintas business, which consists of the Fire Protection Services operating segment and the Uniform Direct Sale operating segment, is included in All Other. The following table sets forth Cintas' total revenue and the revenue derived from each reportable operating segment and the remaining operating segments included in the All Other category for the fiscal years ended May 31: (In thousands) 2022 2021 2020 Uniform Rental and Facility Services $ 6,226,980 $ 5,689,632 $ 5,643,494 First Aid and Safety Services 832,458 784,291 708,569 All Other 795,021 642,417 733,057 Total Revenue $ 7,854,459 $ 7,116,340 $ 7,085,120 Additional information regarding each reportable operating segment and All Other is also included in Note 15 entitled Operating Segment Information of " Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. " COVID-19 Pandemic We have operations throughout the U.S. and Canada and participate in a global supply chain. Since fiscal 2020, the existence of the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the fear associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and the reactions of governments around the world in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to regulate the flow of labor and products and impede the business of our customers, impacted our ability to conduct normal business operations, which had an adverse effect on our business. Many of Cintas' customers were also impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and we saw an impact on some customer's ability to pay timely. While there was minimal disruption to our supply chain, Cintas did increase inventory, primarily personal protective equipment and facility services inventory, in response to the customer needs and demand associated with the safety and cleanliness requirements of COVID-19. The increase in inventory resulted in additional inventory reserves during fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. See Note 1 entitled Significant Accounting Policies of " Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements " for additional detail on the incremental reserves placed on inventory. The on-going roll out of the COVID-19 vaccines and gradual lifting of COVID-19 restrictions had a positive impact on our business during fiscal 2022. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is fluid and continues to evolve, and therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which our business, consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial condition or liquidity will ultimately be impacted. For more information, see the sections entitled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , and Risk Factors within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 Customers We provide our products and services to over one million businesses of all types, from small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ thousands of people. This diversity in customer base results in no individual customer accounting for greater than one percent of Cintas' total revenue. As a result, the loss of one account would not have a material financial impact on Cintas. Competition The primary markets served by each of the Cintas operating segments are local in nature and highly fragmented. Cintas competes with national, regional and local providers, large national retailers and small local retailers as well as companies with a significant online presence and the level of competition varies at each of Cintas' local operations. In addition, businesses may decide to perform certain services in-house instead of outsourcing these services. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in each of our operating segments. Operations and Distribution Within the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, Cintas provides its products and services to customers via local delivery routes originating from rental processing plants and branches. Within the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other, Cintas provides its products and services via its distribution network and local delivery routes or local representatives. At May 31, 2022, Cintas, in total, had approximately 11,300 local delivery routes, 462 operational facilities and 12 distribution centers. Sourcing Cintas is committed to sourcing responsibly. Cintas sources finished products from many outside suppliers. As mentioned on our website, www.cintas.com, each and every supplier must comply with a vendor code of conduct as a condition of doing business with Cintas. Cintas also conducts internal training to ensure that employee-partners who have direct responsibility for supply chain management are knowledgeable and aware of issues and concerns surrounding our supply chain. In addition to sourcing from third-party suppliers, Cintas operates five manufacturing facilities that provide for standard uniform needs. Cintas purchases fabric, used in the manufacturing of its products, from several suppliers. Cintas' ability to find qualified suppliers who meet its standards and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is subject to ongoing market risks. For a discussion of the risks associated with sourcing that may materially impact Cintas, please see " I tem 1A: Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Business Strategy and Operations ." Government Laws and Regulations Cintas is subject to a wide array of laws, government regulations, including environmental regulations, and standards in each domestic and foreign jurisdiction in which it operates. In addition to Cintas U.S. operations, which in fiscal 2022 generated over 90% of its consolidated revenue, Cintas also operates its business through wholly-owned subsidiaries in foreign jurisdictions, primarily in Canada. Compliance with these laws, government regulations, including environmental regulations, and standards requires the dedication of time and effort of employee-partners as well as financial resources. Compliance with environmental regulations and prioritizing our environmental sustainability efforts are important to us as a good corporate citizen. Our journey started in 1929 during the Great Depression when Doc and Amelia Farmer collected shop towels that had been disposed of by manufacturing facilities along the Ohio River. They washed, recycled and sold the clean towels back to companies. Today, the majority of our total Company revenue comes from our Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment. Most of these items are cleaned and processed in ways that extend their lifespan and, when not in use, are re-stocked for future customers to maximize their lifespan. Our laundering processes generate far less wastewater than home laundering. Water discharged into the environment is treated at our operating facilities and in accordance with local discharge standards and permits. Our lasting commitment to the environment and our communities is evident from our processes and innovation, which are designed to ensure that our operational facilities are operating efficiently. Cintas is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, as are other companies in the uniform rental industry. The primary federal statutes that apply to our activities in the U.S. are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of hazardous substances into the air, land and water. While environmental compliance is not a material component of our costs, Cintas makes capital expenditures and associated operating costs, primarily for water treatment and waste removal, 5 on a regular basis in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to promote employee-partner safety and to carry out its environmental sustainability principles. Environmental spending related to water treatment and waste removal was approximately $22.0 million in fiscal 2022, approximately $19.0 million in fiscal 2021 and approximately $20.0 million in fiscal 2020. Capital expenditures to limit or monitor hazardous substances totaled approximately $0.2 million in fiscal 2022, approximately $1.0 million in fiscal 2021 and approximately $3.0 million in fiscal 2020. In addition, health and safety regulations (including laws or regulations promulgated in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic) have necessitated, and may continue to necessitate, increased operating costs or capital investments to promote a safe working environment. Cintas is also required to comply with increasingly complex and changing laws and regulations enacted to protect business and personal data in the U.S. and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, use, transmission and protection of personal information and other consumer, customer, vendor or employee data. With respect to the laws and regulations noted above, as well as other applicable laws and regulations, Cintas compliance programs may under certain circumstances involve material investments in the form of additional processes, training, personnel, information technology and capital. In fiscal 2022, compliance with the applicable laws, government regulations, including environmental regulations, and standards did not have a material effect on Cintas capital expenditures or consolidated results of operations. For a discussion of the risks associated with government regulations that may materially impact Cintas, please see Item 1A: Risk Factors Legal and Regulatory Risks . Communication Cintas uses its corporate website, www.cintas.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. Cintas files with or furnishes to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site located at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Cintas, that file electronically with the SEC. Cintas' SEC filings can be found on the Investors page of its website at www.cintas.com/investors/financials.aspx and its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics can be found on the About Us page of its website at www.cintas.com/company. These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling Cintas as set forth on the Investor Information page. The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated herein by reference unless expressly noted. Environmental, Social and Governance Cintas is in the midst of a comprehensive, enterprise-wide review of its business model as it relates to environmental, social and governance (ESG) opportunities, improvements and efficiencies. In 2021, Cintas announced our ambition to achieve Net Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050. In fiscal 2022, Cintas expanded our ESG report to share our focus on making a positive impact through our key ESG priorities. This included work in areas of climate and energy initiatives, water interactions, materials and waste innovations, sustainable supply chain, diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, employee-partner development, safety and health strategy, human rights and labor rights positions and governance, ethics and integrity foundations. Cintas' most recent ESG report can be found on our website at www.cintas.com/esg. 6 Human Capital Cintas key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop talent to deliver on the Company s strategy. To support these objectives, Cintas human resources programs are designed to: keep people safe and healthy; enhance the Company s culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more inclusive; acquire and retain diverse talent; reward and support employee-partners through competitive pay and benefit programs; develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions; and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing workforce. The principles and values our employee-partners share are the driving force behind all our accomplishments. At May 31, 2022, Cintas employed approximately 43,000 employee-partners in our global workforce, of which approximately 1,000 were represented by labor unions. Our primary areas of focus in managing our human capital include the following: Corporate Culture We believe that our culture at Cintas is just as essential as our products and services. Our culture impacts the quality of the employee-partners we hire, the way we communicate and interact with our customers and each other and our performance standards. Our culture is the cornerstone representing our values, our behaviors, our way of working and how we approach our business, which is strong relationships and a dedication to taking care of one another and our customers. We operate according to the Cintas Code of Conduct, available on our website www.cintas.com, which mandates full compliance with applicable laws and regulations and helps to preserve the integrity of our Company. Health and Safety We aspire to achieve zero workplace injuries and provide a safe, open and accountable work environment for our employee-partners. To enforce internationally recognized standards, we have implemented an occupational health and safety management system in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). Employee-partners, contractors, vendors and visitors are all covered by the system, which focuses on hazard prevention, training, management commitment and worker involvement. We are also committed to continuously improving performance through our Safety Improvement Committees in every operation, while corporate safety and health employee-partners conduct annual reviews of our operations. Additionally, every year our employee-partners receive online, on-the-job and classroom training on over 30 safety topics, and all maintenance staff must complete the Maintenance Safety Certification. Every Cintas driver completes monthly driver safety training courses or on-the-road skills evaluations. Every manager attends OSHA s 10-hour Safety Improvement course, and each member of our Senior Management team takes the Management and Leadership Skills for Environmental Health and Safety Professionals Course, part of the Harvard T.H Chan School of Public Health safety and health curriculum. In addition, we provide several channels for all employee-partners to speak up, ask for guidance and report concerns related to ethics or safety violations, and we address those concerns and take appropriate actions to uphold our Cintas values and safety culture. Through these efforts, Cintas has reduced our recordable injury rate by over 75% since 2008, has been awarded 122 OSHA Star sites in the Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), which is more than double any other company in the U.S. and have received numerous safety, health and ergonomics awards from national and international groups. Employee-Partner Wellness We are committed to the health and wellness of our employee-partners. We provide our employee-partners and their families with access to a variety of health and wellness programs, including our long-running Live Well program that supports employee-partners on their health and wellness journeys. We provide free annual biometric screening and health assessments at work or offsite, annual free flu shot clinics onsite or offsite, a tobacco cessation program, weight management programs and an employee-partner assistance program, which offers advice on mental health, legal and financial issues. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we utilized our Preparedness Plan and implemented controls that we consider to be in the best interest of our employee-partners and the communities in which we operate, and which comply with government regulations. Some of the controls implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, include physical barriers, social distancing, remote-working where possible, travel restrictions, appropriate personal protective equipment and additional hygiene and cleaning regimes. Keeping people safe remains our top priority, and the diligence and flexibility of our employee-partners in complying with these new controls has allowed us to continue to focus on providing essential products and services to our customers, ranging from cleaning supplies, disinfectant services, hand sanitizer, scrubs, face masks and face shields. 7 Diversity, Equity Inclusion Cintas supports diversity, equity and inclusion by fostering a respectful, creative and productive environment where all employee-partners can reach their full potential without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran status. We actively recruit, retain, develop and advance a diverse and talented workforce. We have five Employee-Partner Business Resource Groups, focused on Women, African Americans, Hispanic and Latin Americans, Asian American / Pacific Islanders and Military and Veteran employee-partners. These groups provide platforms for our employee-partners to showcase skills, experiences and perspectives. The Employee-Partner Business Resource Groups also help foster inclusion among all employee-partners to build awareness, recruit and retain a diverse workforce and support the overall success of Cintas. We also have a Management Trainee program that helps Cintas find the best talent for our leadership pipeline, and we monitor representation across management positions. Cintas diversity, equity and inclusion efforts are led by our Chief Diversity Officer. This position regularly reports to our Chief Executive Officer and works to help achieve our goals and obtain a diverse and talented workforce, which is critical to our success. Compensation Programs and Employee Benefits Our compensation and benefits programs provide a total rewards package designed to attract, retain and motivate our employee-partners. In addition to competitive base salaries, the total rewards package (which may vary by position and country) includes, among other items, bonuses, long-term incentives, retirement savings plans, medical insurance, prescription drug benefits, dental insurance, vision insurance, accident and critical illness insurance, life and disability insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts and an employee-partner assistance program. Talent Development Cintas is committed to the continued development of its employee-partners. We provide numerous training opportunities for our employee-partners, with a focus on continuous learning and development and methodologies to manage performance, provide feedback and develop talent. We offer a wide array of training solutions (classroom, hands-on and e-learning) for our employee-partners. Our talent development programs strive to provide employee-partners resources to achieve career goals and build management and leadership skills. We offer mentoring programs, a management trainee program and executive leadership programs to support the professional growth of our employee-partners and ensure we have the right succession plans in place. 8