Item 1. Business Overview Cognizant is one of the world s leading professional services companies, transforming clients business, operating and technology models for the digital era. Our services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application development, systems integration, application testing, application maintenance, infrastructure services and business process services. Digital services have become an increasingly important part of our portfolio, aligning with our clients' focus on becoming data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. We tailor our services and solutions to specific industries with an integrated global delivery model that employs client service and delivery teams based at client locations and dedicated global and regional delivery centers. Certain terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are defined in the Glossary included at the end of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Business Segments We go to market across our four industry-based business segments. Our clients seek to partner with service providers that have a deep understanding of their businesses, industry initiatives, customers, markets and cultures and the ability to create solutions tailored to meet their individual business needs. Across industries, our clients are confronted with the risk of being disrupted by nimble, digital-native competitors. They are therefore redirecting their focus and investment to digital and embracing DevOps and key technologies like IoT, analytics, AI, digital engineering, cloud and automation. We believe that our deep knowledge of the industries we serve and our clients businesses has been central to our revenue growth and high client satisfaction, and we continue to invest in those digital capabilities that help to enable our clients to become modern businesses. Our business segments are as follows: Financial Services Healthcare Products and Resources Communications, Media and Technology Banking Insurance Healthcare Life Sciences Retail and Consumer Goods Manufacturing, Logistics, Energy and Utilities Travel and Hospitality Communications and Media Technology Our Financial Services segment includes banking, capital markets and insurance companies. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients need to be compliant with significant regulatory requirements and adaptable to regulatory change, and their adoption and integration of digital technologies, including customer experience enhancement, robotic process automation, analytics and AI in areas such as digital lending, fraud detection and next generation payments. Our Healthcare segment consists of healthcare providers and payers as well as life sciences companies, including pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device companies. Demand in this segment is driven by emerging industry trends, including enhanced compliance, integrated health management, claims investigative services and heightened focus on patient experience, as well as services that drive operational improvements in areas such as claims processing, enrollment, membership and billing. Demand is also created by the adoption and integration of digital technologies such as AI to shape personalized care plans and predictive data analytics to improve patient outcomes. Our Products and Resources segment includes manufacturers, retailers and travel and hospitality companies, as well as companies providing logistics, energy and utility services. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients focus on improving the efficiency of their operations, the enablement and integration of mobile platforms to support sales and other omni-channel commerce initiatives, and their adoption and integration of digital technologies, such as the application of intelligent systems to manage supply chains and enhance overall customer experiences, and IoT to instrument functions for factories, real estate, fleets and products to increase access to insight generating data. Our Communications, Media and Technology segment includes information, media and entertainment, communications and technology companies. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients needs to create differentiated user experiences, transition to agile development methodologies, enhance their networks, manage their digital content and adopt and integrate digital technologies, such as cloud, interactive and IoT. 1 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2019 , the distribution of our revenues across our four industry-based business segments was as follows: See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to disaggregation of revenues by client location, service line and contract-type for each of our business segments. Services and Solutions Our services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application development, systems integration, application testing, application maintenance, infrastructure services and business process services. Additionally, we develop, license, implement and support proprietary and third-party software products and platforms. Central to our strategy to align with our clients need to modernize is our investment in four key areas of digital: IoT, AI, digital engineering and cloud. These four capabilities enable clients to put data at the core of their operations, improve the experiences they offer their customers, tap into new revenue streams, defend against technology-enabled competitors and reduce costs. In many cases, our clients' new digital systems are built upon the backbone of their existing legacy systems. Also, clients often look for efficiencies in the way they run their operations so they can fund investments in new digital technologies. We believe our deep knowledge of their infrastructure and systems provides us with a significant advantage as we work with them to build new digital capabilities to make their operations more efficient and effective. We deliver all of our services and solutions across our four industry-based business segments to best address our clients' individual needs. We seek to drive organic growth through investments in our digital capabilities across industries and geographies, including the extensive training and re-skilling of our technical teams and the expansion of our local workforces in the United States and other markets around the world where we operate. Additionally, we pursue select strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and alliances that can expand our digital capabilities or the geographic or industry coverage of our business. In 2019 , we completed five such acquisitions: Mustache, a creative content agency based in the United States, that extends our capabilities in creating original and branded content for digital, broadcast and social mediums; Meritsoft, a financial software company based in Ireland, that complements our service offerings to capital markets institutions; Samlink, a developer of services and solutions for the financial sector based in Finland, that strengthens our banking capabilities and brings with it a strategic partnership with three Finnish financial institutions to transform and operate a shared core banking platform; Zenith, a life sciences company based in Ireland, that extends our service capabilities for connected biopharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers; and Contino, a technology consulting firm that extends our capabilities in enterprise DevOps and cloud transformation. 2 Table of Contents We have organized our services and solutions into four practice areas: Digital Business, Digital Operations, Digital Systems and Technology and Consulting. These practice areas are supported by Cognizant Accelerator. Digital Business Our digital business practice helps clients build modern enterprises. Areas of focus within this practice area are: interactive, which is our global network of studios that help clients craft new experiences; application modernization, which updates legacy applications using modern technology stacks; AI and analytics, which drive business growth and efficiencies through a greater understanding of customers and operations; IoT, which unlocks greater productivity and new business models; digital advisory, which provides enterprise transformation expertise; and digital engineering, which designs, engineers, and delivers software that powers modern businesses. Digital Operations Our digital operations practice helps clients rethink their operating models by assessing their existing processes and recommending automation and change management, allowing clients to fundamentally transform how their processes run while also realizing cost savings benefits from these process improvements. Areas of focus within this practice area are: automation, analytics and consulting for business process outsourcing; platform-based operations; and core business process operations. We have extensive knowledge of core front office, middle office and back office processes, including finance and accounting, research and analytics, procurement and data management, which we integrate with our industry and technology expertise to deliver targeted business process services and solutions. Digital Systems Technology Our digital systems and technology practice helps clients reshape their technology models to simplify, modernize and secure the enabling systems that form the backbone of their business. With cloud becoming an essential catalyst for large-scale transformation efforts, cloud adoption is driving changes across the entire IT value chain. Areas of focus within this practice area include: enterprise application services; application development and maintenance; quality engineering and assurance; cloud; infrastructure; and security. Consulting Our consulting practice helps clients drive the changes that the evolving technology landscape requires of their organizations by providing global business, process, operations and technology consulting services. Our consulting professionals and domain experts from our industry-based business segments work closely with our practice areas to create modern frameworks, platforms and solutions that leverage a wide range of digital technologies across our clients businesses to deliver higher levels of efficiency and new value for their customers. Cognizant Accelerator Cognizant Accelerator supports our business segments and four practice areas by developing innovative and practical offerings for clients' emerging needs through the application of new technologies. 3 Table of Contents Global Delivery Model We utilize a global delivery model, with delivery centers worldwide to provide the full range of services we offer to our clients. Our delivery model includes employees deployed at client sites, local or in-country delivery centers, regional delivery centers and offshore delivery centers, as required to best serve our clients. As we scale our digital services and solutions, we are focused on hiring in the United States and other countries where we deliver services to our clients to expand our in-country delivery capabilities. Our extensive facilities, technology and communications infrastructure are designed to enable the effective collaboration of our global workforce across locations and geographies. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services directly through our professional staff, senior management and direct sales personnel operating out of our many offices around the world. We are increasing our investment in sales and marketing professionals to help us expand existing accounts and acquire new ones, and amplify our brand's stature in the marketplace. These new investments are designed to support and enhance the sales and marketing group, which works with our client delivery team as the sales process moves closer to a client's selection of a services provider. The duration of the sales process may vary widely depending on the type and complexity of services. Clients The services we provide are distributed among a number of clients in each of our business segments. Revenues from our top clients as a percentage of total revenues were as follows: For the years ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Top five clients 7.9 % 8.6 % 8.9 % Top ten clients 14.6 % 15.4 % 14.9 % A loss of a significant client or a few significant clients in a particular segment could materially reduce revenues for that segment. The services we provide to our larger clients are often critical to their operations and a termination of our services would typically require an extended transition period with gradually declining revenues. Nevertheless, the volume of work performed for specific clients may vary significantly from year to year. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we announced that we will exit certain content-related work that is not in line with our long-term strategic vision for the Company. We intend to exit this work in 2020 and this may negatively impact our relationship with the affected clients and the revenues from other services we provide to them. Refer to Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information. Competition The markets for our services are highly competitive, characterized by a large number of participants and subject to rapid change. Competitors may include systems integration firms, contract programming companies, application software companies, cloud computing service providers, traditional consulting firms, professional services groups of computer equipment companies, infrastructure management companies, outsourcing companies and boutique digital companies. Our direct competitors include, among others, Accenture, Atos, Capgemini, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, EPAM Systems, Genpact, HCL Technologies, IBM Global Services, Infosys Technologies, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro. In addition, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. The principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our services include the provider s reputation and experience, vision and strategic advisory capabilities, digital services capabilities, performance and reliability, responsiveness to customer needs, financial stability, corporate governance and competitive pricing of services. Accordingly, we rely on the following to compete effectively: investments to scale our digital services; our recruiting, training and retention model; our global delivery model; an entrepreneurial culture and approach to our work; a broad client referral base; investment in process improvement and knowledge capture; financial stability and good corporate governance; continued focus on responsiveness to client needs, quality of services and competitive prices; and project management capabilities and technical expertise. 4 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We provide value to our clients based, in part, on our proprietary innovations, methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other IP assets. We recognize the importance of IP and its ability to differentiate us from our competitors. We seek IP protection for some of our innovations and rely on a combination of IP laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our IP and our Cognizant brand, which is one of our most valuable assets. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, domain names and copyrights. We own or are licensed under a number of patents, trademarks and copyrights of varying duration, relating to our products and services. While our proprietary IP rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular IP right or any particular group of patents, trademarks, copyrights or licenses, other than our Cognizant brand. Cognizant and other trademarks appearing in this report are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cognizant and its affiliates in the United States and other countries, or third parties, as applicable. Employees We had approximately 292,500 employees at the end of 2019 , with approximately 46,400 in North America, approximately 21,200 in Europe and approximately 224,900 in various other locations throughout the rest of the world, including approximately 203,700 in India. We are not party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. Information About Our Executive Officers The following table identifies our current executive officers: Name Age Capacities in Which Served In Current Position Since Brian Humphries (1) 46 Chief Executive Officer 2019 Karen McLoughlin (2) 55 Chief Financial Officer 2012 Robert Telesmanic (3) 53 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 2017 Matthew Friedrich (4) 53 Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Secretary 2017 Becky Schmitt (5) 46 Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer 2020 Dharmendra Kumar Sinha (6) 57 Executive Vice President and President, North America 2019 Santosh Thomas (7) 51 Executive Vice President and President, Global Growth Markets 2016 Malcolm Frank (8) 53 Executive Vice President and President, Cognizant Digital Business 2019 Balu Ganesh Ayyar (9) 58 Executive Vice President and President, Cognizant Digital Operations 2019 Greg Hyttenrauch (10) 52 Executive Vice President and President, Cognizant Digital Systems Technology 2019 Pradeep Shilige (11) 51 Executive Vice President and Head of Global Delivery 2019 (1) Brian Humphries has been our Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since April 2019. Prior to joining Cognizant, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Business, a division of Vodafone Group, from 2017 until 2019. Mr. Humphries joined Vodafone from Dell Technologies where his positions from 2013 to 2017 included President and Chief Operating Officer of Dell s Infrastructure Solutions Group, President of Dell s Global Enterprise Solutions, and Vice President and General Manager, EMEA Enterprise Solutions. Before joining Dell, Mr. Humphries was with Hewlett-Packard where his roles from 2008 to 2013 included Senior Vice President, Emerging Markets, Senior Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development, and Chief Financial Officer of HP Services. The early part of his career was spent with Compaq and Digital Equipment Corporation. He holds a bachelor s degree in Business Administration from the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland. (2) Karen McLoughlin has been our Chief Financial Officer since February 2012. Ms. McLoughlin has held various senior management positions in our finance department since she joined Cognizant in 2003. Prior to joining Cognizant, Ms. McLoughlin held various financial management positions at Spherion Corporation and Ryder System, Inc. and served in various audit roles at Price Waterhouse (now PricewaterhouseCoopers). Ms. McLoughlin has served on the Board of Directors of Best Buy Co., Inc. since 2015, where she is currently a member of the Audit Committee and chair of the Finance and Investment Policy Committee. Ms. McLoughlin has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Wellesley College and an MBA degree from Columbia University. (3) Robert Telesmanic has been our Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since January 2017, a Senior Vice President since 2010 and our Corporate Controller since 2004. Prior to that, he served as our Assistant Corporate 5 Table of Contents Controller from 2003 to 2004. Prior to joining Cognizant, Mr. Telesmanic spent over 14 years with Deloitte Touche LLP. Mr. Telesmanic has a Bachelor of Science degree from New York University and an MBA degree from Columbia University. (4) Matthew Friedrich has been our Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Secretary since May 2017. Prior to joining Cognizant, Mr. Friedrich served as Chief Corporate Counsel for Chevron Corporation from 2014 to 2017. Mr. Friedrich was a partner with the law firms of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Boies Schiller Flexner LLP prior to his role with Chevron. Mr. Friedrich began his legal career in 1995 as a federal prosecutor with the DOJ, where he remained for nearly 14 years, culminating with his designation as the acting Assistant Attorney General of the Criminal Division in 2008. Mr. Friedrich has served as a member of the Council on Foreign Relations since 2016, as a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S.-India Business Council since 2018 and as a member of the Board of Directors of the US Chamber of Commerce, Litigation Center since 2018. Mr. Friedrich has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Foreign Affairs from the University of Virginia and a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Texas School of Law. Following law school, Mr. Friedrich clerked for U.S. District Judge Royal Furgeson in the Western District of Texas. (5) Becky Schmitt has been our Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer since February 2020. Prior to joining Cognizant, Ms. Schmitt was the Chief People Officer of Sam s Club, a division of Walmart, Inc. from October 2018 through January 2020. Prior to that, she served as SVP, Chief People Officer, US eCommerce Corporate Functions for Walmart from October 2016 through September 2018 and as VP, HR - Technology from February 2016 until October 2016. Prior to joining Walmart, Ms. Schmitt spent over 20 years with Accenture plc in various human resources roles, culminating in her role as HR Managing Director, North America Business from March 2014 through February 2016. Ms. Schmitt has served as a Board Member at Large for the Girl Scouts National Board since 2017. Ms. Schmitt has a Bachelor of Arts degree from University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. (6) Dharmendra Kumar Sinha has been our Executive Vice President and President, North America since June 2019. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and President, Global Client Services from December 2013 until June 2019. He has also served as President and a director of the Cognizant U.S. Foundation, a non-profit organization, since April 2018. From 2007 to December 2013, Mr. Sinha served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Sales and Field Marketing. From 2004 to 2007, Mr. Sinha served as our Vice President responsible for our Manufacturing and Logistics, Retail and Hospitality, and Technology verticals. From 1997 to 2004, Mr. Sinha held a variety of other management roles. Prior to joining Cognizant in 1997, Mr. Sinha worked with Tata Consultancy Services and CMC Limited, an IT solutions provider. Mr. Sinha has a Bachelor of Science degree from Patna Science College, Patna and an MBA degree from the Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra. (7) Santosh Thomas has been our Executive Vice President and President, Global Growth Markets since August 2016. Prior to his current role, Mr. Thomas served as our Head, Growth Markets from 2011 through July 2016. From 1999 to 2011, Mr. Thomas held various senior positions at Cognizant including leading Continental European operations and various roles in client relationships and market development in North America. Prior to joining Cognizant in 1999, Mr. Thomas worked with Informix and HCL Hewlett Packard Limited. Mr. Thomas has an undergraduate degree in engineering from R.V. College of Engineering in Bangalore, India and a Postgraduate Diploma in Business Management from Xavier School of Management, India. (8) Malcolm Frank has been our Executive Vice President and President, Cognizant Digital Business since May 2019. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Strategy and Marketing at Cognizant from 2012 to May 2019 and as our Senior Vice President of Strategy and Marketing from 2005 to 2012. Prior to joining Cognizant in 2005, Mr. Frank was a founder and the President and Chief Executive Officer of CXO Systems, Inc., an independent software vendor providing dashboard solutions for senior managers, a founder and the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of NerveWire Inc., a management consulting and systems integration firm, and a founder and executive officer at Cambridge Technology Partners, an information technology professional services firm. Mr. Frank has served on the Board of Directors of Factset Research Systems Inc. since June 2016, where he is a member of the Compensation Committee. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum since May 2018. Mr. Frank has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from Yale University. (9) Balu Ganesh Ayyar has been our Executive Vice President and President, Cognizant Digital Operations since August 2019. Prior to joining Cognizant, Mr. Ayyar was the CEO of Mphasis, a global IT services company listed in India, from 2009 to 2017. Prior to Mphasis, Mr. Ayyar spent nearly two decades with Hewlett-Packard, holding a variety of leadership roles across multiple geographies. (10) Greg Hyttenrauch has been our Executive Vice President and President, Cognizant Digital Systems Technology since December 2019. Prior to joining Cognizant, Mr. Hyttenrauch served as Director, Global Cloud and Security Services for Vodafone from October 2015 to November 2019. Prior to Vodafone, Mr. Hyttenrauch held a variety of senior leadership positions at Capgemini from 2008 to 2015, including Deputy CEO, Global Infrastructure Services, and Global Sales Officer and CEO of the UK and Nordic Outsourcing Business Unit. Before joining Capgemini, Mr. Hyttenrauch held positions with CSC and EDS. He began his career with 13 years in the Canadian military, rising to the rank of captain. Mr. Hyttenrauch holds a bachelor s degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Royal Military College of Canada and an MBA in International Management from the University of Ottawa. 6 Table of Contents (11) Pradeep Shilige has been the Executive Vice President and Head of Global Delivery at Cognizant since July 2019. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Global Delivery and Digital Systems Technology at Cognizant from 2015 through June 2019. Mr. Shilige has held multiple other leadership roles at Cognizant since joining the organization in 1996. Mr. Shilige is a member of the IT Services Council of NASSCOM, the premier industry association for the IT-BPM sector in India since 2017. He has a bachelor s degree in Computer Engineering from the National Institute of Technology in Karnataka, India. None of our executive officers is related to any other executive officer or to any of our Directors. Our executive officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors and generally serve until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. Corporate History We began our IT development and maintenance services business in early 1994 as an in-house technology development center for The Dun Bradstreet Corporation and its operating units. In 1996, we were spun-off from The Dun Bradstreet Corporation and, in 1998, we completed an initial public offering to become a public company. Available Information We make available the following public filings with the SEC free of charge through our website at www.cognizant.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and any amendments thereto; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any amendments thereto; and our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto. In addition, we make available our code of ethics entitled Core Values and Code of Ethics free of charge through our website. We intend to post on our website all disclosures that are required by law or Nasdaq Stock Market listing standards concerning any amendments to, or waivers from, any provision of our code of ethics. No information on our website is incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or any other public filing made by us with the SEC. 7 Table of Contents