Item 1. Business , Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Cognizant 4 December 31, 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Cognizant is one of the world s leading professional services companies, engineering modern businesses and delivering strategic outcomes for our clients. We help clients modernize technology, reimagine processes and transform experiences so they can stay ahead in a fast-changing world. We provide industry expertise and close client collaboration, combining critical perspective with a flexible engagement style. We tailor our services and solutions to specific industries with an integrated global delivery model that employs client service and delivery teams based at client locations and dedicated global and regional delivery centers. Our collaborative services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application development, systems integration, quality engineering and assurance, application maintenance, infrastructure and security as well as business process services and automation. Digital services continue to be an important part of our portfolio, aligning with our clients' focus on becoming data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. Our purpose, vision and values are central to Cognizant's strategic approach. In order to achieve this vision and support our clients, we are focusing our business on six strategic initiatives to simplify our operations, become an employer of choice and accelerate growth. These strategic initiatives include: Growing in select industries - investing in prioritized industries to drive differentiation across our value chain; Expanding internationally - growing by prioritizing strategic growth accounts; Building large deal capabilities - enhancing creative deal generation with the right solutions, deal modeling and governance; Capturing the AI opportunity - protecting and expanding in target areas while improving efficiency; Delivering our talent strategy - embedding our cultural values and building a future-relevant talent model; and Continuing to implement our IT roadmap continuing to modernize and execute critical projects necessary to lead with AI. We seek to drive organic growth through investments in our digital capabilities across industries and geographies, including the extensive training and reskilling of our technical teams and the expansion of our local workforces in the United States and other markets around the world. Additionally, we pursue select strategic acquisitions that can expand our talent, experience and capabilities in key digital areas or in particular geographies or industries. In 2023, we completed two such acquisitions to complement the nine acquisitions we completed during 2021 and 2022. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Responsible operations and transparency around environmental and social efforts are important to our stakeholders, which is why our ESG program is designed to align with our clients and employees focus on ESG-related topics in our value chain, including but not limited to, our supply chain, delivery and solutions. Cognizant 5 December 31, 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents Reportable Business Segments We go to market across seven industry-based operating segments, which are aggregated into four reportable business segments: Financial Services (FS) Banking Insurance Health Sciences (HS) - This reportable business segment is comprised of a single operating segment of the same name. Products and Resources (P R) Retail and Consumer Goods Manufacturing, Logistics, Energy and Utilities Travel and Hospitality Communications, Media and Technology (CMT) - This reportable business segment is comprised of a single operating segment of the same name. Our clients seek to partner with service providers that have a deep understanding of their businesses, industry initiatives, customers, markets and cultures and the ability to create solutions tailored to meet their individual business needs. Across industries, our clients are confronted with the risk of being disrupted by nimble, digital-native competitors. They are therefore redirecting their focus and investment to digital operating models and embracing DevOps and key technologies that enable quick adjustments to shifts in their markets. We believe that our deep knowledge of the industries we serve and our clients businesses has been central to our growth and high client satisfaction, and we continue to develop and deploy our client-centric culture, innovating together to produce transformative outcomes. Our FS segment includes banking, capital markets, payments and insurance companies. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients need to adopt and integrate digital technologies to serve their customers while complying with significant regulatory requirements and adapting to regulatory change. These digital technologies enable enhanced customer experience, robotic process automation, analytics and AI in areas such as digital lending, fraud detection and next generation payments. In addition to having platforms that drive outcomes at speed, demand is also created by our clients desire to reduce complexity through packaged solutions and suppliers with embedded product partners. Our HS segment consists of healthcare providers and payers, and life sciences companies, including pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device companies. Demand in this segment is driven by emerging industry trends, including the shift towards consumerism, outcome-based contracting, digital health and delivering integrated seamless, omni-channel, patient-centered experiences. These trends result in increased demand for services that drive operational improvements in areas such as clinical development, pharmacovigilance and manufacturing, as well as claims processing, enrollment, membership and billing. Demand is also created by the adoption and integration of digital technologies such as AI to shape personalized care plans and predictive data analytics to improve clinical trial designs, patient engagement and care outcomes. Our P R segment includes manufacturers, automakers, retailers and travel and hospitality companies, as well as companies providing logistics, energy and utility services. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients focus on improving the efficiency and sustainability of their operations; the enablement and integration of mobile platforms to support sales and other omni-channel commerce initiatives; the generational shift from mechanical to software-defined, experience-driven vehicles; grid modernization to prepare for a decarbonized and consumer-driven energy landscape; and their adoption and integration of digital technologies, such as the application of intelligent systems to manage supply chains and enhance overall customer experiences, and IoT to instrument functions for factories, real estate, fleets and products to increase access to insight-generating data. Our CMT segment includes global communications, media and entertainment, education, information services and technology companies. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients need for services related to digital content, business process improvement, technology modernization, the creation of unified and compelling user experiences and identifying new revenue streams to drive growth. In response to this demand, we are focusing on services and solutions in the areas of monetization and evolution of networks, media supply chain transformation, product engineering and verticalization as well as data modernization and customer experience design. Cognizant 6 December 31, 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2023, the distribution of our revenues across our four reportable business segments was as follows: The services we provide are distributed among a number of clients in each of our reportable business segments. A loss of a significant client or a few significant clients in a particular segment could materially reduce revenues for that segment. The services we provide to our larger clients are often critical to their operations and a termination of our services would typically require an extended transition period with gradually declining revenues. Nevertheless, the volume of work performed for specific clients may vary significantly from year to year. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to disaggregation of revenues by client location, service line and contract-type for each of our reportable business segments. Services and Solutions Our services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application development, systems integration, quality engineering and assurance, application maintenance, infrastructure and security as well as business process services and automation. Additionally, we develop, license, implement and support proprietary and third-party software products and platforms. Central to our strategy to align with our clients need to modernize is our continued investment in new technologies, including AI, cloud, data modernization, automation, digital engineering and IoT. These four capabilities enable clients to put data at the core of their operations, improve the experiences they offer to their customers, tap into new revenue streams, automate operations, defend against technology-enabled competitors and reduce costs. In many cases, our clients' new digital systems are built on the backbone of their existing legacy systems, which can increase complexity and impact business continuity. In the post-pandemic environment, our clients have a sustained need to modernize their businesses, which has led to increased demand for digital capabilities such as mobile workplace solutions, e-commerce, automation, AI and cybersecurity services and solutions. We believe our deep knowledge of our clients' infrastructure and systems provides us with a significant advantage as we work with them to build new digital capabilities to make their operations more modern and intuitive. We deliver all our services and solutions across our four reportable business segments to best address our clients' individual needs. Our services and solutions are organized into five integrated practices, which help us better serve our clients through integrated solutioning and delivery. These practices are Core Technologies and Insights, Enterprise Platform Services, Industry Solutions, Intuitive Operations and Automation and Software and Platform Engineer ing. Our consulting professionals have deep industry-specific expertise and work closely across our practices to create intuitive operating models that leverage a wide range of digital technologies across our clients enterprises to deliver higher levels of efficiency, new value for their customers and business outcomes that align to their industries. Core Technologies and Insights Our Core Technologies and Insights practice helps clients build agile and relevant organizations that apply the power of cloud, data and IoT to help them perform better and innovate faster. Our clients can harness data securely in cloud-first architectures, enabling them to become highly resilient enterprises that are capable of quickly adapting to market dynamics. Areas of focus within this practice are: Cloud, infrastructure and security, which helps simplify, modernize and safeguard IT environments, creating new business opportunities; AI and analytics, which helps clients formulate actionable insights from unstructured data to drive a greater understanding of their customers and operations; and IoT, which unlocks greater insights and new business models. Cognizant 7 December 31, 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents Enterprise Platform Services Our Enterprise Platform Services practice helps our clients digitally transform multiple front- and back-office business processes, implementing enterprise-wide platforms that enable customer experience, customer relationship management, human capital management, supply chain management, enterprise resource planning and finance. Our services decrease time to market, drive efficiencies and deliver impactful experiences. Our clients can better share information, simplify IT processes, automate workflow and improve flexibility. This practice focuses on application services, which help enterprises engage their partner ecosystems more productively, and run their operations and financial organizations more efficiently while enabling improved employee and customer experiences. We work closely with partners including Adobe, Amazon Web Services, Cisco, Google, Microsoft, Oracle, Pegasystems, Salesforce, SAP, ServiceNow, Workday and many others. Industry Solutions Our Industry Solutions was established in 2023 as part of Cognizant s strategy to build differentiation at the industry level. The practice integrates industry technologists and thought leaders specialized in vertical micro-segments. These teams work with specialized partners to develop industry-specific products and services that enable clients to improve productivity, increase operational excellence and accelerate innovation. Intuitive Operations and Automation Our Intuitive Operations and Automation practice helps clients build and run modern operations through two main vehicles: AI-led automation and business process outsourcing services. Our automation advisory, implementation and managed services experts partner with clients to transform end-to-end processes, design and manage the next-generation human and digital workforce, enable seamless experiences and achieve multi-fold productivity increases. Our technology-driven business process outsourcing services help clients transform and run functions and industry-specific processes such as finance and accounting, omni-channel customer care, loan origination, annotation services, location-based services and medical data management. Areas of focus are: Business process outsourcing services, which help deliver business outcomes including revenue growth, increased customer and employee satisfaction, and cost savings; and AI-led automation, which includes advisory and process and IT automation solutions designed to simplify and accelerate automation adoption. Software and Platform Engineering Our Software and Platform Engineering practice helps clients develop modern enterprises through digital products, services and solutions that help them improve employee experiences and deliver new value for their customers. Our clients can leverage data, technologies and our digital engineering, design and product development capabilities to build world-class experiences, and a responsive, agile and intuitive framework for continuous innovation. Areas of focus are: Digital engineering, which delivers modern business software; and Application development and management, which improves or reimagines applications. Global Delivery Model We operate in an integrated global delivery model, with delivery centers worldwide to provide our full range of services to our clients. Our delivery model includes employees deployed at client sites, local or in-country delivery centers, regional delivery centers and offshore delivery centers, as required to best serve our clients. As we continue to scale our digital services and solutions, we are focused on hiring in the United States and other countries where we deliver services to our clients to expand our in-country delivery capabilities. Our extensive facilities, technology and communications infrastructure are designed to enable the effective collaboration of our global workforce across locations and geographies. Competition The markets for our services are highly competitive, characterized by a large number of participants and subject to rapid change. Competitors may include systems integration firms, contract programming companies, application software companies, cloud computing service providers, traditional consulting firms, professional services groups of computer equipment companies, infrastructure management companies, outsourcing companies and boutique digital companies. Our direct competitors include, among others, Accenture, Atos, Capgemini, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, EPAM Systems, Genpact, HCL Technologies, IBM Consulting, Infosys Technologies, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro. In addition, we compete Cognizant 8 December 31, 2023 Form 10-K Table of Contents with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. For additional information, see Part I,