Item 1. Business Overview Cognizant is one of the world s leading professional services companies, engineering modern business for the digital era. Our services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application development, systems integration, application testing, application maintenance, infrastructure services and business process services. Digital services have become an increasingly important part of our portfolio, aligning with our clients' focus on becoming data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. We are continuing to invest in digital services with a focus on four key areas: IoT, digital engineering, data and cloud. We tailor our services and solutions to specific industries with an integrated global delivery model that employs client service and delivery teams based at client locations and dedicated global and regional delivery centers. We help clients modernize technology, reimagine processes and transform experiences so they can stay ahead in a fast-changing world. Our purpose, vision and values comprise the Cognizant Agenda. In order to achieve this vision and support our clients, we are focusing our business on four strategic priorities to increase our commercial momentum and accelerate growth. These strategic priorities include: Accelerating digital - growing our digital business organically and inorganically; Globalizing Cognizant - accelerating the growth of our business in key international markets and diversifying our leadership, capabilities and delivery footprint; Repositioning our brand - improving global brand recognition and becoming better known as a global digital partner to the entire C-suite; and Increasing our relevance to our clients - leading with thought leadership and capabilities to address clients' business needs. We seek to drive organic growth through investments in our digital capabilities across industries and geographies, including the extensive training and reskilling of our technical teams and the expansion of our local workforces in the United States and other markets around the world. Additionally, we pursue select strategic acquisitions that can expand our talent, experience and capabilities in key digital areas or in particular geographies or industries. In 2021, we completed seven such acquisitions. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Business Segments We go to market across our four industry-based business segments. Our clients seek to partner with service providers that have a deep understanding of their businesses, industry initiatives, customers, markets and cultures and the ability to create solutions tailored to meet their individual business needs. Across industries, our clients are confronted with the risk of being disrupted by nimble, digital-native competitors. They are therefore redirecting their focus and investment to digital operating models and embracing DevOps and key technologies that enable quick adjustments to shifts in their markets. We believe that our deep knowledge of the industries we serve and our clients businesses has been central to our growth and high client satisfaction, and we continue to invest in those digital capabilities that help to enable our clients to become modern businesses. Cognizant 3 December 31, 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents Our business segments are as follows: Financial Services (FS) Healthcare (HC) Products and Resources (P R) Communications, Media and Technology (CMT) Banking Insurance Healthcare Life Sciences Retail and Consumer Goods Manufacturing, Logistics, Energy and Utilities Travel and Hospitality Communications and Media Technology Our FS segment includes banking, capital markets and insurance companies. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients need to serve their customers while being compliant with significant regulatory requirements and adaptable to regulatory change, as well as our clients' adoption and integration of digital technologies, including customer experience enhancement, robotic process automation, analytics and AI in areas such as digital lending, fraud detection and next generation payments. In addition to platforms that drive outcomes at speed, demand is also created by our clients desire to reduce complexity through packaged solutions and suppliers with embedded product partners. Our HC segment consists of healthcare providers and payers as well as life sciences companies, including pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device companies. Demand in this segment is driven by emerging industry trends, including the shift towards consumerism, outcome-based contracting, digital health and delivering integrated seamless, omni-channel, patient-centered experiences. These trends result in increased demand for services that drive operational improvements in areas such as clinical development, pharmacovigilance and manufacturing, as well as claims processing, enrollment, membership and billing. Demand is also created by the adoption and integration of digital technologies such as AI to shape personalized care plans and predictive data analytics to improve clinical trial designs, patient engagement and care outcomes. Our P R segment includes manufacturers, retailers and travel and hospitality companies, as well as companies providing logistics, energy and utility services. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients focus on improving the efficiency of their operations, the enablement and integration of mobile platforms to support sales and other omni-channel commerce initiatives, and their adoption and integration of digital technologies, such as the application of intelligent systems to manage supply chains and enhance overall customer experiences, and IoT to instrument functions for factories, real estate, fleets and products to increase access to insight-generating data. Our CMT segment includes information, media and entertainment, communications and technology companies. Demand in this segment is driven by our clients need for services related to digital content, the creation of personalized user experiences, acceleration of digital engineering and access to new revenue streams to drive growth. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the distribution of our revenues across our four industry-based business segments was as follows: The services we provide are distributed among a number of clients in each of our business segments. A loss of a significant client or a few significant clients in a particular segment could materially reduce revenues for that segment. The services we provide to our larger clients are often critical to their operations and a termination of our services would typically require an extended transition period with gradually declining revenues. Nevertheless, the volume of work performed for specific clients may vary significantly from year to year. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to disaggregation of revenues by client location, service line and contract-type for each of our business segments. Cognizant 4 December 31, 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents Services and Solutions Our services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application services, systems integration, infrastructure services and business process services. Additionally, we develop, license, implement and support proprietary and third-party software products and platforms. Central to our strategy to align with our clients need to modernize is our continued investment in digital, with a focus on four key areas: IoT, digital engineering, data and cloud. These four capabilities enable clients to put data at the core of their operations, improve the experiences they offer to their customers, tap into new revenue streams, automate operations, defend against technology-enabled competitors and reduce costs. In many cases, our clients' new digital systems are built on the backbone of their existing legacy systems, which can increase complexity and impact business continuity. The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated our clients' need to modernize their businesses, which has led to increased demand for digital capabilities such as mobile workplace solutions, e-commerce, automation, AI and cybersecurity services and solutions. We believe our deep knowledge of our clients' infrastructure and systems provides us with a significant advantage as we work with them to build new digital capabilities to make their operations more efficient, effective and modern. We deliver all of our services and solutions across our four industry-based business segments to best address our clients' individual needs. In 2021, our services and solutions were organized into two practice areas: Digital Business Technology and Digital Business Operations. Our consulting professionals have deep industry-specific expertise and work closely with our practice areas to create modern frameworks, platforms and solutions that leverage a wide range of digital technologies across our clients businesses to deliver higher levels of efficiency and new value for their customers. Digital Business Technology Our Digital Business Technology practice helps clients build modern enterprises that apply the power of cloud, data, software, and IoT to help them perform better and innovate faster. Our clients are able to embrace a new business and technology stack that comprises consumer-grade software, enterprise applications, modernized data and the instrumentation of everything in cloud-first architectures. Areas of focus within this practice are: interactive, which leverages our global network of studios that help clients craft new experiences; application modernization, which updates legacy applications using agile methodologies and cloud; AI and analytics, which drive business growth and efficiencies through a greater understanding of customers and operations; IoT, which unlocks greater productivity and new business models; experience-driven software engineering, which designs, engineers and delivers modern business software; application services; quality engineering and assurance; and cloud, infrastructure and security. Digital Business Operations Our Digital Business Operations practice helps clients build and run modern operating models that are adaptive, efficient, and human-centric. We achieve this through two main vehicles intelligent process automation and outsourced business process services. Our intelligent process automation advisory, implementation and managed services experts partner with clients to transform end to end processes, design and manage the next-generation human and digital workforce, enable seamless experiences for customers and employees, and achieve multi-fold productivity increases. Our outsourced business process services help clients transform and run functions and industry-specific processes such as finance and accounting, omni-channel customer care, loan origination, and pharmacovigilance. Outsourced services can help accelerate digital transformation and deliver business outcomes including revenue growth, increased customer satisfaction and cost savings. For digital native clients in areas such as FinTech, InsurTech and MedTech, our outsourced business process services deliver the operational support needed to rapidly scale, innovate and capitalize on opportunities. Areas of focus within this practice are: automation, analytics and consulting for business process outsourcing; platform-based operations; and core business process operations. Cognizant 5 December 31, 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents Global Delivery Model We use a global delivery model, with delivery centers worldwide to provide our full range of services to our clients. Our delivery model includes employees deployed at client sites, local or in-country delivery centers, regional delivery centers and offshore delivery centers, as required to best serve our clients. As we scale our digital services and solutions, we are focused on hiring in the United States and other countries where we deliver services to our clients to expand our in-country delivery capabilities. Our extensive facilities, technology and communications infrastructure are designed to enable the effective collaboration of our global workforce across locations and geographies. Competition The markets for our services are highly competitive, characterized by a large number of participants and subject to rapid change. Competitors may include systems integration firms, contract programming companies, application software companies, cloud computing service providers, traditional consulting firms, professional services groups of computer equipment companies, infrastructure management companies, outsourcing companies and boutique digital companies. Our direct competitors include, among others, Accenture, Atos, Capgemini, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, EPAM Systems, Genpact, HCL Technologies, IBM Consulting, Infosys Technologies, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro. In addition, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. The principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our services include the provider s reputation and experience, strategic advisory capabilities, digital services capabilities, performance and reliability, responsiveness to customer needs, financial stability, corporate governance and competitive pricing of services. Accordingly, we rely on the following to compete effectively: investments to scale our digital services; our recruiting, training and retention model; our global delivery model; an entrepreneurial culture and approach to our work; a broad client referral base; investment in process improvement and knowledge capture; financial stability and good corporate governance; continued focus on responsiveness to client needs, quality of services and competitive prices; and project management capabilities and technical expertise. Intellectual Property We provide value to our clients based, in part, on our proprietary innovations, methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other IP assets. We recognize the importance of IP and its ability to differentiate us from our competitors. We seek IP protection for many of our innovations and rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our IP. We have registered, and applied for the registration of, U.S. and international trademarks, service marks, and domain names to protect our brands, including our Cognizant brand, which is one of our most valuable assets. We own or are licensed under a number of patents, trademarks and copyrights of varying duration, relating to our products and services. We also have policies requiring our employees to respect the IP rights of others. While our proprietary IP rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular IP right or any particular group of patents, trademarks, copyrights or licenses, other than our Cognizant brand. Cognizant and other trademarks appearing in this report are registered trademarks or trademarks of Cognizant and its affiliates in the United States and other countries, or third parties, as applicable. Workforce We had approximately 330,600 employees at the end of 2021, with 40,900 in North America, 15,700 in Continental Europe, 8,100 in the United Kingdom and 265,900 in various other locations throughout the rest of the world, including 240,000 in India. This represents an increase of 41,100 employees as compared to December 31, 2020. W e utilize subcontractors to provide additional capacity and flexibility in meeting client demand, though the number of subcontractors has historically been immaterial relative to our employee headcount. We are not party to any significant collective bargaining agr eements. Cognizant 6 December 31, 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents We balance the portion of our employees in the United States and other jurisdictions that rely on visas with consideration of the needs of our business to fulfill client demand and risks to our business from potential changes in immigration laws and regulations that may increase the costs associated with and ability to staff employees on visas to work in-country. Currently, less than 50% of our employees in the United States hold H-1B and L-1 visas. Engaging Our People As a global professional services company, Cognizant competes on the basis of the knowledge, experience, insights, skills and talent of its employees and the value they can provide to our clients. We aim for our employees to feel motivated, engaged, and empowered to do their best work through careers they find meaningful. In a market where competition for skilled IT professionals is intense, we focus on the following: Engagement Retention: Cognizant aims to provide a compelling employee value proposition, or EVP, that inspires current and potential employees from all backgrounds and geographies. In 2021, we strengthened the articulation of our EVP and took targeted actions across the employee lifecycle to enhance the employee experience. We also trained top leaders, people managers, our HR team and other critical functions to deliver the EVP through their roles. We regularly assess employee sentiment through third-party engagement surveys, leader listening sessions and interactions on our internal channels. On an annual basis, after each engagement survey, we develop and communicate clear action plans to continue to build on our strengths and address shortfalls. We regularly monitor employee retention levels. Competition for skilled employees in the current labor market is intense, and we experienced significantly elevated attrition during 2021. We continue to enhance our pay-for-performance approach and increase our efforts with respect to recruitment, talent management and employee engagement. For the three months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our annualized attrition rate, including both voluntary and involuntary, was 34.6% and 19.0%, respectively. Our attrition rate for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, including both voluntary and involuntary, was 30.8% and 20.6%, respectively. Our attrition is weighted towards our more junior employees. In 2021, voluntary attrition constituted the vast majority of our attrition for the period. In comparison, voluntary attrition in 2020 represented only approximately half of our attrition for the period as our personnel actions taken under our Fit for Growth Plan increased involuntary attrition while voluntary attrition was suppressed due to the COVID-19 pandemic . Advancing Diversity Inclusion: We strive to continually improve upon D I over the long term. A diverse and inclusive workfor ce strengthens our ability to innovate and to understand our clients needs and aspirations. Highlights from our D I efforts include: Global D I organization embedded within our HR function to drive accountability through our people processes and systems; Global D I training and programs, including allyship and inclusive mindset training for leaders; Progressive hiring policies, including a diverse candidate pipeline initiative to ensure a more diverse interview slate at the Vice President level and above; and Seven global affinity groups that welcome, nurture and provide safe spaces in which our employees can share their unique interests and aspirations. As of December 31, 2021, women accounted for 38% of our workforce as compared to 36% as of December 31, 2020. In our 2021 engagement survey, D I continued to score higher than external benchmark, showing as a consistent strength for our company. High Performance Culture: We aim to create a work environment where every person is inspired to achieve, driven to perform and rewarded for their contributions. Our culture of meritocracy fosters individual and team high performance to fuel our growth. Highlights include: Regular, performance-based promotions and merit increases as one lever to engage high-performing talent. During the 2021 cycle, we were proud to promote employees across all levels and provide merit increases to a significant number of our employees; Cognizant 7 December 31, 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents An internal job moves initiative, launched in 2021, focused on encouraging high performing employees to find their next job at Cognizant. This program is enhancing career velocity and bringing fresh thinking to our clients as employees take on new lateral and next-level opportunities across the Company; and Continuously fostering a culture focused on recognition, Cognizant has created programs to reward all levels of employees through both monetary recognition as well as peer driven non-monetary recognition. Learning Development: Clients count on us to know their industries, businesses, and technology environments, readily gain new digital skills and insights, and apply our knowledge to help them increase their competitiveness. We facilitate upward and cross-career growth through role and skill-based training and a robust learning ecosystem for employees at all levels. Highlights include: Robust technical programs that reskill and upskill our employees with a focus on building digital skills in areas such as IoT, digital engineering, data and cloud; The 2021 launch of the Cognizant Integrated Higher Education Program in India, a collaboration with premier institutions that empowers employees to earn a Masters of Technology degree while remaining employed with Cognizant. As part of the initiative, Cognizant sponsors an employee s final semester fee, as well as offers a loan to cover course fees for the first year; Several innovative pre-employment training programs for graduates and early to mid-career professionals that focus on cultivating technology skills required for the next-generation workforce; and Recognition of our talent development approach by leading learning and development organizations, such as the Association for Talent Development, the Brandon Hall Group and the Learning and Performance Institute. Leadership Development Talent Management: Cognizant continuously fosters and builds its pipeline of diverse, high-performing leaders who have the breadth and versatility to drive our growth. To do this, we focus on engaging senior talent and enabling their success through continuous assessment and high impact development opportunities. Highlights include: Targeted talent programs for key pools that include various training opportunities, digital leadership programs, custom leadership development initiatives and leadership transition programs to equip employees for taking on a leadership role; Fast-tracking high-performing and high-potential leadership talent through personalized assessments, executive coaching and executive education programs; Accelerating a diverse leadership pipeline through programs like Propel, an initiative focused on priming the next level of women leaders within Cognizant. In 2021, we reached a critical milestone, exceeding our pledge to put 1,000 women leaders globally through the program; More than 600 leaders have participated in our LEAD@Cognizant partnership with Harvard University, which is a 4.5-month leadership capability program designed exclusively for Cognizant leaders to learn, practice and internalize how to set the course, connect the dots, inspire followership and deliver results through strategic alignment, collaboration and building high performing teams; and Periodic talent processes such as talent reviews aim to help individuals develop in role and prepare for the future, while strengthening our leadership pipeline overall. Supporting Wellbeing at Work and Home: We offer benefits to care for the diverse needs of our employees and keep them feeling resilient, innovative and engaged. These include total compensation programs, health benefits, overall well-being and family care, tax savings programs, income protection and financial planning resources. As we continue to face evolving environmental and health challenges, we continually review and enhance our offerings to improve the competitiveness of our total compensation programs, including our health benefit offerings. Highlights include: Our WorkFlex program, which provides employees greater flexibility to complete their required hours outside their standard schedule or to transition to a part-time schedule to accommodate personal priorities; Various benefits to support employee mental health, including a robust Employee Assistance Program, peer support through trained employees who serve as mental health champions, and mental health insurance Cognizant 8 December 31, 2021 Form 10-K Table of Contents coverage in most countries. In the United States, we also provide access to third party mental health platforms, including Ginger and eMindful; and The launch of Operation C3 in April 2021, as the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic gripped India. This initiative facilitated vaccination for our Indian employees and their dependents, and set up vaccination drives across the country to help senior citizens, physically challenged dependents, and mothers with infants. Operation C3 also provided critical medical equipment to hospitals, helped to boost oxygen supplies and more. Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters As a result of the size, breadth and geographic diversity of our business, our operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including with respect to import and export controls, temporary work authorizations or work permits and other immigration laws, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, anti-corruption, the environment, government affairs, internal and disclosure control obligations, data privacy, intellectual property, employee and labor relations. For additional information, see Part I,