Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 71 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 71 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 72 Item 9B. Other Information 72 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 72 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 73 Item 11. Executive Compensation 75 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 75 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 75 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 75 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 76 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary F- 93 SIGNATURES 79 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company Financial Statements and Supplementary Data F- 83 1 Explanatory Note This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report being filed separately by Corteva, Inc. and EID. Corteva, Inc. owns all of the common equity interests in EID, and EID meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a), (b) and (d) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing its information within this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format. Each of Corteva, Inc. and EID is filing on its own behalf the information contained in this report that relates to itself, and neither company makes any representation as to information relating to the other company. Where information or an explanation is provided that is substantially the same for each company, such information or explanation has been combined in this report. Where information or an explanation is not substantially the same for each company, separate information and explanation has been provided. In addition, separate consolidated financial statements for each company, along with notes to the consolidated financial statements, are included in this report. The primary differences between Corteva and EID's financial statements relate to EID's Preferred Stock - $4.50 Series and EID's Preferred Stock - $3.50 Series, a related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc. and the associated tax deductible interest expense for EID, and the capital structure of Corteva. Inc. (See EID's Note 1 - Basis of Presentation to EID's Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information for above items). The separate EID financial statements and footnotes for areas that differ from Corteva, are included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K and begin on page F-83. Footnotes of EID that are identical to that of Corteva are cross-referenced accordingly. 2 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to: "Corteva" or "the company" refers to Corteva, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (including EID); "EID" refers to E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and its consolidated subsidiaries or E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company excluding its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context may indicate; "DowDuPont" refers to DowDuPont Inc. and its subsidiaries prior to the Separation (as defined below) of Corteva; "Historical Dow" refers to The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Internal Reorganization as defined on page 4; "Historical DuPont" and "Historical EID" refers to EID prior to the Internal Reorganization (as defined on page 4); "Dow" refers to Dow Inc. after The Dow Distribution (as defined below); "DuPont" refers to DuPont de Nemours, Inc. after the Separation of Corteva; "DAS" refers to the agriculture business of Historical Dow, Dow AgroSciences; and "Merger" refers to the all-stock merger of equals strategic combination between Historical Dow and Historical DuPont. Background Corteva is a leading global provider of seed and crop protection solutions focused on the agriculture industry and contributing to a healthier, more secure and sustainable food supply. Corteva was incorporated in Delaware in March 2018 and maintains its business headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana. The company is focused on advancing its science-based innovation, which aims to deliver a wide range of improved products and services to its customers. Corteva has one of the broadest and most productive new product pipelines in the agriculture industry. The company intends to leverage its rich heritage of scientific achievement to advance its robust innovation pipeline and continue to shape the future of responsible agriculture. New products are crucial to solving farmers productivity challenges amid a growing global population while addressing natural resistance, regulatory changes, safety requirements and competitive dynamics. The company s investment in technology-based and solution-based product offerings allows it to meet farmers evolving needs while ensuring that its investments generate sufficient returns. Meanwhile, through Corteva s unique routes to market, the company continues to work face-to-face with farmers around the world to understand their needs. The company's broad portfolio of agriculture solutions fuels farmer productivity in approximately 140 countries. See Note 24 - Geographic Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the location of the company's sales and property. On June 1, 2019, Corteva, Inc. became an independent, publicly traded company through the completed separation (the Separation ) of the agriculture business of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (formerly known as DowDuPont Inc.) ( DuPont or "DowDuPont"). The separation was effectuated through a pro rata distribution (the Corteva Distribution ) of all of the then- issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Corteva, Inc. As a result of the Internal Reorganization (defined below), on May 31, 2019, EID was contributed to Corteva, Inc. and, as a result, Corteva, Inc. owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of EID. Prior to March 31, 2019, Corteva, Inc. had engaged in no business operations and had no assets or liabilities of any kind, other than those incident to its formation. EID continues to be a reporting company and is deemed to be the predecessor to Corteva, Inc., with the historical results of EID to be deemed the historical results of Corteva for periods prior to and including May 31, 2019. Shares of EID preferred stock, $3.50 Series and $4.50 Series, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Separation remain issued and outstanding and were unaffected by the Separation. Internal Reorganizations and Business Separations Subsequent to the Merger, Historical Dow and EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products (collectively, the "Business Separations ). On April 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the separation of its materials science business into a separate and independent public company by way of a distribution of Dow through a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Dow s common stock, to holders of DowDuPont's common stock, as of the close of business on March 21, 2019 (the Dow Distribution and together with the Corteva Distribution, the Distributions ). 3 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued Prior to the Dow Distribution, Historical Dow conveyed or transferred the assets and liabilities aligned with Historical Dow s agriculture business to separate legal entities ( Dow Ag Entities ) and the assets and liabilities associated with its specialty products business to separate legal entities (the Dow SP Entities ). On April 1, 2019, Dow Ag Entities and the Dow SP Entities were transferred and conveyed to DowDuPont. In furtherance of the Business Separations, EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps (the Internal Reorganization and the "Business Realignment," respectively) to realign its businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. As part of the Internal Reorganization: the assets and liabilities aligned with EID s materials science business ("EID ECP"), were transferred or conveyed to separate legal entities that were ultimately conveyed by DowDuPont to Dow on April 1, 2019; the assets and liabilities aligned with EID s specialty products business were transferred or conveyed to separate legal entities that were ultimately distributed to DowDuPont ("EID Specialty Products Entities") on May 1, 2019; on May 2, 2019, DowDuPont conveyed Dow Ag Entities to EID and in connection with the foregoing, EID issued additional shares of its common stock to DowDuPont; and on May 31, 2019, DowDuPont contributed EID to Corteva, Inc. On May 6, 2019, the Board of Directors of DowDuPont approved the distribution of all the then issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Corteva, Inc., then a wholly-owned subsidiary of DowDuPont, to DowDuPont stockholders. On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the Separation. Corteva, Inc.'s common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CTVA" on June 3, 2019. As a result of the Business Realignment and the Internal Reorganization discussed above, Corteva owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of EID. EID is a subsidiary of Corteva, Inc. and continues to be a reporting company, subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Separation Agreements In connection with the Distributions, DuPont, Corteva, and Dow (together, the Parties and each a Party ) have entered into certain agreements to effect the separation, provide for the allocation of DowDuPont s assets, employees, liabilities and obligations (including its investments, property and employee benefits and tax-related assets and liabilities) among the Parties, and provide a framework for Corteva's relationship with Dow and DuPont following the separations and Distributions. Effective April 1, 2019, the Parties entered into the following agreements: Separation and Distribution Agreement - Effective April 1, 2019, the Parties entered into an agreement that sets forth, among other things, the agreements among the Parties regarding the principal transactions necessary to effect the Distributions. It also sets forth other agreements that govern certain aspects of the Parties ongoing relationships after the completion of the Distributions (the "Corteva Separation Agreement"). Tax Matters Agreement - The Parties entered into an agreement effective as of April 1, 2019, as amended on June 1, 2019, that governs their respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, the preparation and filing of tax returns, the control of audits and other tax proceedings and other matters regarding taxes. Employee Matters Agreement - The Parties entered into an agreement that identifies employees and employee-related liabilities (and attributable assets) to be allocated (either retained, transferred and accepted, or assigned and assumed, as applicable) to the Parties as part of the Distributions and describes when and how the relevant transfers and assignments would occur. Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreement - Effective as of April 1, 2019 Corteva and Dow, and effective June 1, 2019, Corteva and DuPont, entered into Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements. The Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements set forth the terms and conditions under which the applicable Parties may use in their respective businesses, following each of the Distributions, certain know-how (including trade secrets), copyrights, and software, and certain patents and standards, allocated to another Party pursuant to the Corteva Separation Agreement. 4 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued Letter Agreement - Effective as of June 1, 2019 DuPont and Corteva entered into a Letter Agreement. The Letter Agreement sets forth certain additional terms and conditions related to the Separation, including certain limitations on each party s ability to transfer certain businesses and assets to third parties without assigning certain of such party s indemnification obligations under the Corteva Separation Agreement to the other party to the transferee of such businesses and assets or meeting certain other alternative conditions. Business Segments The company s operations are managed through two reportable segments: seed and crop protection. The seed segment develops and supplies commercial seed combining superior germplasm with advanced traits to produce high yield potential for farmers around the world. The crop protection segment supplies products to protect crop yields against weeds, insects and disease, enabling farmers to achieve optimal results. The combination of these leading platforms creates one of the broadest portfolios of agriculture solutions in the industry. Additional information with respect to business segment results is included in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 47 of this report and Note 25 - Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Seed The seed segment is a global leader in developing and supplying commercial seed combining advanced germplasm and traits that produce optimum yield for farms around the world. The company s seed segment is a leader in many key seed markets, including North America corn and soybeans, Europe corn and sunflower, as well as Brazil, India, South Africa and Argentina corn. The company offers trait technologies that improve resistance to weather, disease, insects and herbicides used to control weeds, and trait technologies that enhance food and nutritional characteristics. In addition, the company provides digital solutions that assist farmer decision-making with a view to optimize product selection and, ultimately, help maximize yield and profitability. Details on the seed segment s net sales by major product line and geographic region (based on customer location) are as follows: 5 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued Products and Brands The seed segment s major brands and technologies, by key product line, are listed below: Seed Solutions Brands Pioneer ; Brevant seeds; Dairyland Seed ; Hoegemeyer ; Nutech ; Seed Consultants ; AgVenture ; Alforex ; PhytoGen ; Pannar ; VP Maxx ; HPT ; G2 ; Supreme EX ; XL ; Power Plus Seed Solutions Traits and Technologies ENLIST E3 soybeans; ENLIST cotton; EXZACT Precision Technology; HERCULEX Insect Protection; Pioneer brand hybrids with Leptra insect protection technology offering protection against above ground pests; POWERCORE trait technology family of products; Pioneer brand Optimum AcreMax family of products offering above and below ground insect protection; REFUGE ADVANCED trait technology; SMARTSTAX trait technology; NEXERA canola trait; Omega-9 Oils; Pioneer brand Optimum AQUAmax hybrids; Pioneer brand A-Series soybeans; Pioneer brand Plenish high oleic soybeans; Express Sun herbicide tolerant trait ; Pioneer Protector products for canola, sunflower and sorghum; Pioneer MAXIMUS rapeseed hybrids; Qrome products for corn; Pioneer brand canola hybrids with Clearfield trait; PROPOUND advanced canola meal; Conkesta E3 soybeans; WideStrike insect protection trait; WideStrike 3 insect protection trait. Other LumiGEN seed treatments, LUMIDERM , LUMIVIA and LUMIALZA ; GRANULAR ; Granular Insights (e.g. LANDVisor ) U.S. federal regulatory authorizations have been obtained for the commercialization of ENLIST corn, ENLIST E3 soybeans and ENLIST cotton, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's registration of ENLIST DUO and ENLIST ONE for use with ENLIST corn, soybeans and cotton in 34 states. The company has also secured cultivation authorizations of ENLIST E3 soybeans and ENLIST corn in Argentina, Brazil, and North America In 2020, Corteva signed an agreement with J.G. Boswell Company to purchase the remaining 46.5 percent interest in PhytoGen Seed Company, LLC a joint venture between the two companies. With a 100% ownership position in PhytoGen Seed Company, LLC, Corteva became the sole owner of the intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, proprietary germplasm and information, as well as know-how. In 2020, Corteva announced the launch of Brevant seeds in the U.S. for sale exclusively through retail locations in the Midwest and Eastern Corn Belt starting with 2021 planting. As a global brand, Brevant seeds, which was originally launched in Latin America, Canada, and select European countries in 2018, provides farmers a greater choice with a high-performance retail solution. Brevant provides multiple seed offerings including corn, soybeans, sunflowers and canola. In connection with the validation of breeding plans and large-scale product development timelines focused on rapidly ramping up differentiated technology solutions, during the fourth quarter of 2019, the company began accelerating the ramp up of the Enlist E3 TM trait platform in the company s soybean portfolio mix across all brands, including Pioneer brands, over the subsequent five years. During the ramp-up period, the company is expected to significantly reduce the volume of products with the Roundup Ready 2 Yield and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend herbicide tolerance traits beginning in 2021, with expected minimal use of the Roundup Ready 2 Yield and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend traits thereafter for the remaining term of the non-exclusive license with the Monsanto Company. Refer to Prepaid Royalties within the Critical Accounting Estimates section on page 63 for additional information. In 2019, Corteva received import authorization from China for the Conkesta soybean insect control trait, which was a necessary step for commercialization of Conkesta E3 soybeans in Latin America. Conkesta E3 soybeans received regulatory approvals and was commercialized in the second half of 2021. In 2019, the company launched Qrome corn products in U.S. Pioneer brands. Qrome products offer growers high yield potential insect control options to help drive productivity for their operations by combining top-tier genetics and strong defensive traits. In 2020, Qrome products were expanded to the U.S. multi-channel and Canada Pioneer brands. 6 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued The company acquired exclusive rights to the Clearfield canola production system in North America from BASF in 2019. The Clearfield canola trait provides non-genetically modified tolerance to imidazolinone herbicides. Clearfield canola in the Pioneer and Nexera brands were already highly established in the market and integrated into the company s breeding, production and commercial processes. In addition, the company creates digital tools that provide both farmers and internal sales resources with platforms to support agronomic and operational decision-making, particularly in the areas of product selection, targeted crop protection application, and financial analysis, designed to help maximize yield and profitability. Distribution The seed segment has a diverse worldwide network which markets and distributes the company s brands to customers, primarily through the company s multi-channel, multi-brand strategy, which includes four differentiated channels: Pioneer agency model, regional brands, retail brands, as well as third parties through licensing and distribution channels. The Pioneer agency model is unique to Corteva and represents sales made directly to farmers via independent sales representatives. Through this agency model, the company interacts directly with farmers at multiple points in the growing season, from prior to planting all the way through harvest. These regular interactions enable the company to provide the advice and service farmers need while giving the company real-time insights into the customers future ordering decisions. The company s regional brands connect to customers through regional brand employees and farmer-dealer networks. Retail brands provide a one-stop shop for seed and chemistry solutions and may include sales to distributors, agricultural cooperatives, and dealers. Finally, Corteva out-licenses traits and germplasm to third parties. Key Raw Materials The key raw materials for seed include corn and soybean seeds. To produce high-quality seeds, the company contracts with third-party growers globally. Corteva focuses on production close to the customer to provide the seed product, which is suitable for that region and its weed, insect and disease challenges, weather, soil and other conditions. The company conditions and packages the seeds using its own plants and third-party contract manufacturers. By striking a balance between owning production facility assets directly and contracting with third-party growers, the company believes it is best able to maintain flexibility to react to demand changes unique to each geography while minimizing costs. The company seeks to collaborate with strategic seed growers and share its digital agronomy and product management knowledge with them. The company s third-party growers are an important part of its supply chain. Corteva provides them with rigorous training, planning tools and access to a system that tests and advances products matched to specific geographic needs. The seed segment's R D and supply chain groups work seamlessly to select and maintain product characteristics that enhance the quality of its seed products and solutions. Corteva focuses on customer-driven innovation to deliver superior germplasm and trait technologies. With its large sets of digitized data and its seed field management solution, the company can manage its field operations efficiently and draw insights from data quickly and effectively. This allows the company s supply chain to react quickly to changing customer needs and provides R D with tremendous amounts of data to analyze and incorporate into resource allocation decisions. The company continues to invest in and build capabilities that drive value via data digitization and analytics that enable it to create an even more responsive and efficient answer to customer needs. Crop Protection The crop protection segment serves the global agricultural input industry with products that protect against weeds, insects and other pests, and disease, and that improve overall crop health both above and below ground via nitrogen management and seed-applied technologies. The company offers crop protection solutions that provide farmers the tools they need to improve productivity and profitability, and help keep fields free of weeds, insects and diseases. The company is a leader in global herbicides, insecticides, nitrogen stabilizers and pasture and range management herbicides. 7 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued Details on the crop protection segment s net sales by major product line and geographic region (based on customer location) are as follows: Products and Brands The crop protection segment s major brands and technologies, by key product line, are listed below: Insect and Nematode Management CLOSER ; DELEGATE ; INTREPID ; ISOCLAST ; LANNATE ; EXALT ; PEXALON ; TRANSFORM ; VYDATE ; OPTIMUM ; RADIANT ; SENTRICON ; ENTRUST SC; GF-120 ; and TRACER Disease Management APROACH PRIMA ; VESSARYA ; APROACH , APROACH POWER ; TALENDO ; TALIUS ; EQUATION PRO ; EQUATION CONTACT ; ZORVEC ; INATREQ ; CURZATE ; TANOS , FONTELIS ; ACANTO ; and GALILEO Weed Control ARIGO ; ARYLEX ; ENLIST weed control system; ENLIST ONE ; BROADWAY ; RINSKOR ; ZYPAR ; MUSTANG ; GALLANT ; VERDICT ; LANCET ; KERB ; PIXXARO ; QUELEX ; GALLERY ; CENT-7 ; SNAPSHOT ; TRELLIS ; CITADEL ; CLIPPER ; GRANITE ; RAINBOW ; PINDAR GT; VIPER ; WIDEATTACK ; BELKAR ; WIDEMATCH ; PERFECTMATCH ; CLINCHER ; DURANGO ; FENCER ; GARLON ; SONIC ; TEXARO ; KEYSTONE ; PACTO ; LIGATE ; DIMENSION ; TOPSHOT ; RICER ; LOYANT ; CLASSIC ; REALM Q; TRIVENCE ; LONTREL ; GRAZON ; PANZER ; PRIMUS ; RESICORE ; SPIDER ; STARANE ; SURESTART ; and TORDON Nitrogen Management INSTINCT ; N-LOCK ; N-SERVE Nitrogen Stabilizer Key Raw Materials The key raw materials and supplies for crop protection include chlorinated pyridines derivatives, specialty intermediates and technical grade active ingredients, chlorine, and seed treatments. Typically, the company purchases major raw materials through long-term contracts with multiple suppliers, which sometimes require minimum purchase commitments. Certain important raw materials are supplied by a few major suppliers. The company expects the markets for its raw materials to remain balanced, though pricing may be volatile given the current state of the global economy. The company relies on contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain inputs or key components for its product formulations. These inputs are typically sourced close to where the company ultimately formulates and sells its products. Shifts in customer demand, reduced local availability of raw materials, and/or production capacity constraints may, at times, necessitate sourcing from an alternative geography. The company strives to maintain multiple high-quality supply sources for each input. Corteva s supply chain strategy will involve managing global supplies of active and intermediate ingredients sourced regionally with global best practices and oversight. Corteva s supply strategy includes a robust and flexible global footprint to meet future 8 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued portfolio growth. The company s supply chain also provides competitive advantages including reducing time to meet customer requirements in regions while minimizing costs through the value chain. Seasonality Corteva s sales are generally strongest in the first half of the calendar year, which aligns with the planting and growing season in the northern hemisphere. The company typically generates about 65 percent of its sales in the first half of the calendar year, driven by northern hemisphere seed and crop protection sales. The company generates about 35 percent of its sales in the second half of the calendar year, led by seed sales in the southern hemisphere. The seasonality in sales impacts both the seed and crop protection segments. The company s direct distribution channel, where products are shipped to farmers, is more affected by planting delays than its competitors. Generally speaking, unfavorable weather slows the planting season and can affect the company s quarterly results and sales mix. Severe unfavorable weather, however, can impact overall sales. Accounts receivable tends to be higher during the first half of the year, consistent with the peak sales period in the northern hemisphere, with cash collection focused in the fourth quarter. Human Capital Management Corteva aims to attract the best employees, to retain those employees through offering career development and training opportunities while also prioritizing their safety and wellness in an inclusive and productive work environment. The company s strong employee base of approximately 21,000 employees, along with its commitment to Corteva s core values, is a key element to the success of its business. Workforce Composition. As of December 31, 2021, the company globally employs approximately 21,000 employees. In order to address regional specific customer needs within its global business, the company has a geographically diverse employee base with 48%, 18%, 17%, 13% and 4% located in North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Africa regions, respectively. Approximately 1% of the workforce is unionized in the United States and another 11% participate in work councils and collective bargaining arrangements outside the United States. In 2021, the company did not experience any work stoppages due to strike or lockouts. Safety. Living safely is one of the company s core values by which the company manages its business. The company has implemented safety programs and management practices to promote a culture of safety to protect its employees, as well as the environment. This includes required trainings for employees, as well as specific qualifications and certifications for certain operational employees. Diversity. The company has a robust inclusion, diversity, and equity ( ID E ) vision and strategy, based upon the belief that embracing diversity and inclusion benefits the company by creating a workforce with a greater variety of skills and perspectives as a result of their differentiated backgrounds and experiences. Specific ID E initiatives are identified and tracked to create a culture of belonging where a diverse population of employees are attracted, retained, and engaged. Management is expected to support specific diversity initiatives for their respective geographies and business, as applicable, in order to build a more representative workforce. Critical to creating this environment are company-sponsored employee business resource groups ( BRGs ) that support and promote certain mutual objectives of both the employee and the company, including community engagement and the professional development of employees. The BRGs provide a space where employees can foster connections within a supportive environment. As of the 2021 year end, the company had eight global BRGs, each led by a member of the company s senior leadership: Disability Awareness Network; Global African Heritage Alliance; Growing Asian Impact Network; Latin Network; Prid