Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 76 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 77 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 77 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 77 Item 9B. Other Information 78 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 79 Item 11. Executive Compensation 80 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 81 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 82 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary F-111 SIGNATURES 85 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company Financial Statements and Supplementary Data F-100 1 Explanatory Note Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to: "Corteva" or "the company" refers to Corteva, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (including EID); "EID" refers to E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and its consolidated subsidiaries or E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company excluding its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context may indicate; "DowDuPont" refers to DowDuPont Inc, and its subsidiaries prior to the Separation of Corteva defined on page 3; "Historical Dow" refers to the Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the Internal Reorganization defined on page 3; "Historical DuPont" refers to EID prior to the Internal Reorganization; "Dow" refers to Dow Inc. after the Dow Distribution defined on page 3; "DuPont" refers to DuPont de Nemours, Inc. after the Separation of Corteva; and "DAS" refers to the agriculture business of Historical Dow, Dow AgroSciences. DowDuPont was formed on December 9, 2015 to effect an all-stock, merger of equals strategic combination between Historical Dow and Historical DuPont (the "Merger Transaction"). On August 31, 2017 at 11:59 pm ET, (the "Merger Effectiveness Time") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017 (the "Merger Agreement"), Historical Dow and Historical DuPont each merged with wholly owned subsidiaries of DowDuPont ("Mergers") and, as a result of the Mergers, Historical Dow and Historical DuPont became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (collectively, the "Merger"). For purposes of DowDuPont s financial statement presentation, Historical Dow was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the Merger and Historical DuPont s assets and liabilities were reflected at fair value as of the close of the Merger in the financial statements of DowDuPont. In connection with the Merger and the related accounting determination, Historical DuPont elected to apply push down accounting and reflected in its historical financial statements the fair value of its assets and liabilities. For purposes of Corteva s financial statement presentation, periods following the closing of the Merger are labeled Successor and reflect DowDuPont s basis in the fair values of the assets and liabilities of Corteva/EID. All periods prior to the closing of the Merger reflect the historical accounting basis in EID s assets and liabilities and are labeled Predecessor. Corteva s historical financial statements include a black line division between the columns titled Predecessor and Successor to signify that the amounts shown for the periods prior to and following the Merger are not comparable. The Predecessor period reflects the results of operations and assets and liabilities of EID and excludes the DAS business. On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont Inc. changed its registered name to DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ( DuPont ). Beginning on June 3, 2019, the company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CTVA". This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report being filed separately by Corteva, Inc. and EID. Corteva, Inc. owns all of the common equity interests in EID, and EID meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a), (b) and (d) of Form 10-K and is therefore filing its information within this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format. Each of Corteva, Inc. and EID is filing on its own behalf the information contained in this report that relates to itself, and neither company makes any representation as to information relating to the other company. Where information or an explanation is provided that is substantially the same for each company, such information or explanation has been combined in this report. Where information or an explanation is not substantially the same for each company, separate information and explanation has been provided. In addition, separate consolidated financial statements for each company, along with notes to the consolidated financial statements, are included in this report. The primary differences between Corteva and EID's financial statements relate to EID's Preferred Stock - $4.50 Series and EID Preferred Stock - $3.50 Series, a related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc. and the associated tax deductible interest expense for EID, and the capital structure of Corteva. Inc. (See EID's Note 1 - Basis of Presentation to EID's Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information for above items). The separate EID financial statements and footnotes for areas that differ from Corteva, are included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K and begin on page F-100. Footnotes of EID that are identical to that of Corteva are cross-referenced accordingly. 2 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Background On June 1, 2019, Corteva, Inc. became an independent, publicly traded company through the previously announced separation (the Separation ) of the agriculture business of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (formerly known as DowDuPont Inc.) ( DuPont or "DowDuPont"). The separation was effectuated through a pro rata distribution (the Corteva Distribution ) of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Corteva, Inc., which was then a wholly-owned subsidiary of DowDuPont, to holders of record of DowDuPont common stock as of the close of business on May 24, 2019. In connection with the Separation, DowDuPont Inc. changed its name to DuPont de Nemours, Inc. Subsequent to the Merger, Historical Dow and EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three divisions: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. As a result of the Internal Reorganization (defined below), on May 31, 2019, EID was contributed to Corteva, Inc. and, as a result, Corteva, Inc. owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of EID. Prior to March 31, 2019, Corteva, Inc. had engaged in no business operations and had no assets or liabilities of any kind, other than those incident to its formation. EID continues to be a reporting company and is deemed to be the predecessor to Corteva, Inc., with the historical results of EID to be deemed the historical results of Corteva for periods prior to and including May 31, 2019. Shares of EID preferred stock, $3.50 Series and $4.50 Series, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Separation remain issued and outstanding and were unaffected by the Separation. Corteva combines the strengths of EID s Pioneer and Crop Protection businesses and the DAS business to create a leading global provider of seed and crop protection solutions focused on the agriculture industry. The company is focused on advancing its science-based innovation, which aims to deliver a wide range of improved products and services to its customers. Through the merger of the EID and DAS innovation pipelines, Corteva has one of the broadest and most productive new product pipelines in the agriculture industry. The company intends to leverage its rich heritage of scientific achievement to advance its robust innovation pipeline and continue to shape the future of responsible agriculture. New products are crucial to solving farmers productivity challenges amid a growing global population while addressing natural resistance, regulatory changes, safety requirements and competitive dynamics. The company s investment in technology-based and solution-based product offerings allows it to meet farmers evolving needs while ensuring that its investments generate sufficient returns. Meanwhile, through Corteva s unique routes to market, the company continues to work face-to-face with farmers around the world to deeply understand their needs. The company's broad portfolio of agriculture solutions fuels farmer productivity in approximately 140 countries. Total worldwide employment at December 31, 2019 was about 21,000 people. See Note 24 - Geographic Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the location of the company's sales and property. DowDuPont Merger of Equals, Internal Reorganizations, and Business Separations Subsequent to the Merger, Historical Dow and EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products through a series of tax-efficient transactions (collectively, the "Business Separations ). Effective as of 5:00 pm ET on April 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the previously announced separation of its materials science business into a separate and independent public company by way of a distribution of Dow Inc. ( Dow ) through a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Dow s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to holders of DowDuPont's common stock (the DowDuPont Common Stock ), as of the close of business on March 21, 2019 (the Dow Distribution and together with the Corteva Distribution, the Distributions ). Prior to the Dow Distribution, Historical Dow conveyed or transferred the assets and liabilities aligned with Historical Dow s agriculture business to separate legal entities ( Dow Ag Entities ) and the assets and liabilities associated with its specialty products business to separate legal entities (the Dow SP Entities ). On April 1, 2019, Dow Ag Entities and the Dow SP Entities were transferred and conveyed to DowDuPont. In furtherance of the Business Separations, EID engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps (the Internal Reorganization and the "Business Realignment," respectively) to realign its businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. As part of the Internal Reorganization: the assets and liabilities aligned with EID s materials science business, including EID s ethylene and ethylene copolymers business, excluding its ethylene acrylic elastomers business, ( EID ECP ) were transferred or conveyed to separate legal entities (the Materials Science Entities ) that were ultimately conveyed by DowDuPont to Dow; 3 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued the assets and liabilities aligned with EID s specialty products business were transferred or conveyed to separate legal entities ( EID Specialty Products Entities ); on April 1, 2019, EID transferred and conveyed its Materials Science Entities to Dow; on May 1, 2019, EID distributed its Specialty Products Entities to DowDuPont; on May 2, 2019, DowDuPont conveyed Dow Ag Entities to EID and in connection with the foregoing, EID issued additional shares of its common stock to DowDuPont; and on May 31, 2019, DowDuPont contributed EID to Corteva, Inc. On May 6, 2019, the Board of Directors of DowDuPont approved the distribution of all the then issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Corteva, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of DowDuPont, to DowDuPont stockholders. On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the Separation. Each DowDuPont stockholder received one share of Corteva, Inc. common stock for every three shares of DowDuPont common stock held at the close of business on May 24, 2019, the record date of distribution. Corteva, Inc.'s common stock began trading the "regular way" under the ticker symbol "CTVA" on June 3, 2019, the first business day after June 1, 2019. Upon becoming an independent company, the capital structure of Corteva consisted of 748,815,000 authorized shares of common stock (par value of $0.01 per share), which represents the number of common shares issued on June 3, 2019. As a result of the Business Realignment and the Internal Reorganization discussed above, Corteva owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of EID, and EID owns, directly or indirectly, 100% of DAS. EID is a subsidiary of Corteva, Inc. and continues to be a reporting company, subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Separation Agreements In connection with the Distributions, DuPont, Corteva, and Dow (together, the Parties and each a Party ) have entered into certain agreements to effect the separation, provide for the allocation of DowDuPont s assets, employees, liabilities and obligations (including its investments, property and employee benefits and tax-related assets and liabilities) among the Parties, and provide a framework for Corteva's relationship with Dow and DuPont following the separations and Distributions. Effective April 1, 2019, the Parties entered into the following agreements: Separation and Distribution Agreement - Effective April 1, 2019, the Parties entered into an agreement that sets forth, among other things, the agreements among the Parties regarding the principal transactions necessary to effect the Distributions. It also sets forth other agreements that govern certain aspects of the Parties ongoing relationships after the completion of the Distributions (the "Corteva Separation Agreement"). Tax Matters Agreement - The Parties entered into an agreement effective as of April 1, 2019, as amended on June 1, 2019, that governs their respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, the preparation and filing of tax returns, the control of audits and other tax proceedings and other matters regarding taxes. Employee Matters Agreement - The Parties entered into an agreement that identifies employees and employee-related liabilities (and attributable assets) to be allocated (either retained, transferred and accepted, or assigned and assumed, as applicable) to the Parties as part of the Distributions and describes when and how the relevant transfers and assignments would occur. Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreement - Effective as of April 1, 2019 Corteva and Dow, and effective June 1, 2019 Corteva and DuPont, entered into Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements. The Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements set forth the terms and conditions under which the applicable Parties may use in their respective businesses, following each of the Distributions, certain know-how (including trade secrets), copyrights, and software, and certain patents and standards, allocated to another Party pursuant to the Corteva Separation Agreement. 4 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued Letter Agreement - DuPont and Corteva entered into a Letter Agreement. The Letter Agreement sets forth certain additional terms and conditions related to the Separation, including certain limitations on each party s ability to transfer certain businesses and assets to third parties without assigning certain of such party s indemnification obligations under the Corteva Separation Agreement to the other party to the transferee of such businesses and assets or meeting certain other alternative conditions. Spin-off of Performance Chemicals On July 1, 2015, Historical DuPont completed the separation of its Performance Chemicals segment through the spin-off of all of the issued and outstanding stock of The Chemours Company ("Chemours"). In connection with the separation, Historical DuPont and Chemours entered into a Separation Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement as well as certain ancillary agreements. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), the results of operations of its former Performance Chemicals segment are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, are included within (loss) income from discontinued operations after income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. Additional details regarding the separation and other related agreements can be found in Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Segments The company s operations are managed through two reportable segments: seed and crop protection. The seed segment develops and supplies commercial seed combining superior germplasm with advanced traits to produce high yield potential for farmers around the world. The crop protection segment supplies products to protect crop yields against weeds, insects and disease, enabling farmers to achieve optimal results. The combination of these leading platforms creates one of the broadest portfolios of agriculture solutions in the industry. Additional information with respect to business segment results is included in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, on page 55 of this report and Note 25 - Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Seed The seed segment is a global leader in developing and supplying commercial seed combining advanced germplasm and traits that produce optimum yield for farms around the world. The company s seed segment is a leader in many key seed markets, including North America corn and soybeans, Europe corn and sunflower, as well as Brazil, India, South Africa and Argentina corn. The company offers trait technologies that improve resistance to weather, disease, insects and weeds, and trait technologies that enhance food and nutritional characteristics. In addition, the company provides digital solutions that assist farmer decision-making with a view to optimize product selection and, ultimately, help maximize yield and profitability. Details on the seed segment s net sales by major product line and geographic region (based on customer location) are as follows: 5 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued Products and Brands The seed segment s major brands and technologies, by key product line, are listed below: Seed Solutions Brands Pioneer ; Brevant seeds; Dairyland Seed ; Mycogen ; Hoegemeyer ; Nutech ; Seed Consultants ; Terral Seed ; AgVenture ; Alforex ; PhytoGen ; Pannar ; VP Maxx ; RPM ; REV ; HPT ; G2 ; Supreme EX ; XL ; Power Plus Seed Solutions Traits and Technologies ENLIST E3 soybeans; EXZACT Precision Technology; HERCULEX Insect Protection; Pioneer brand hybrids with Leptra insect protection technology offering protection against above ground pests; POWERCORE Insect Trait Technology family of products; Pioneer brand Optimum AcreMax family of products offering above and below ground insect protection; REFUGE ADVANCED powered by SMARTSTAX 1; SMARTSTAX Insect Trait Technology 1; NEXERA seed offering increased canola yield potential; Omega-9 Oils TM ; Pioneer brand Optimum AQUAmax hybrids; Pioneer brand corn hybrids; Pioneer brand A-Series soybeans; Pioneer brand Plenish high oleic soybeans; Pioneer brand sunflowers with the ExpressSun trait; Pioneer brand products with Pioneer Protector technology for canola, sunflower and sorghum; Pioneer MAXIMUS rapeseed hybrids; PROPOUND ; Conkesta Other LumiGEN technologies seed treatment portfolio of offerings, LUMIDERM , LUMIVIA and LUMIALZA ; GRANULAR ; ACREVALUE U.S. federal regulatory authorizations have been obtained for the commercialization of ENLIST corn, ENLIST E3 soybeans and ENLIST cotton, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's registration of ENLIST DUO and ENLIST ONE for use with ENLIST corn, soybeans and cotton in 34 states. The company has also secured cultivation authorizations of ENLIST E3 soybeans and ENLIST corn in Argentina, Brazil, and North America. In connection with the validation of breeding plans and large-scale product development timelines focused on rapidly ramping up differentiated technology solutions, during the fourth quarter of 2019, the company is accelerating the ramp up of the Enlist E3 TM trait platform in the company s soybean portfolio mix across all brands, including Pioneer brands, over the next five years. During the ramp-up period, the company is expected to significantly reduce the volume of products with the Roundup Ready 2 Yield and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend herbicide tolerance traits beginning in 2021, with expected minimal use of the Roundup Ready 2 Yield and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend traits thereafter for the remaining term of the non-exclusive license with the Monsanto Company. Refer to Prepaid Royalties within the Critical Accounting Estimates section on page 70 for additional information. In 2019, Corteva received import authorization from China for the Conkesta soybean insect control trait. The trait approval had been in progress in China since 2014. The receipt of China import approval is a necessary step for commercialization of Conkesta E3 in Latin America, which the company is expecting the latter part of 2021, pending additional regulatory approvals. In 2019, the company launched Qrome corn products in U.S. Pioneer brands. Qrome products offer growers high yield potential insect control options to help drive productivity for their operations by combining top-tier genetics and strong defensive traits. In 2020, Qrome products will be expanded to the U.S. multi-channel and Canada Pioneer brands. The company acquired exclusive rights to the Clearfield canola production system in North America from BASF in 2019. The Clearfield canola trait provides non-genetically modified tolerance to imidazolinone herbicides. Clearfield canola in the Pioneer and Nexera brands were already highly established in the market and integrated into the company s breeding, production and commercial processes. Distribution The seed segment has a diverse worldwide network which markets and distributes the company s brands to customers, primarily through the company s multi-channel, multi-brand strategy, which includes four differentiated channels: Pioneer agency model, regional brands, retail brands, as well as third parties through licensing and distribution channels. 6 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued The Pioneer agency model is unique to Corteva and represents sales made directly to farmers via independent sales representatives. Through this agency model, the company interacts directly with farmers at multiple points in the growing season, from prior to planting all the way through harvest. These regular interactions enable the company to provide the advice and service farmers need while giving the company real-time insights into the customers future ordering decisions. The company s regional brands connect to customers through regional brand employees and farmer-dealer networks. Retail brands provide a one-stop shop for seed and chemistry solutions and may include sales to distributors, agricultural cooperatives, and dealers. Finally, Corteva out-licenses traits and germplasm to third parties. Key Raw Materials The key raw materials for seed include corn and soybean seeds. To produce high-quality seeds, the company contracts with third party growers globally. Corteva focuses on production close to the customer to ensure the seed product is suitable for that region and its weed, insect and disease challenges, weather, soil and other conditions. The company conditions and packages the seeds using its own plants and third-party contract manufacturers. By striking a balance between owning production facility assets directly and contracting with third party growers, the company believes it is best able to maintain flexibility to react to demand changes unique to each geography while minimizing costs. The company seeks to collaborate with strategic seed growers and share its digital agronomy and product management knowledge with them. The company s third-party growers are an important part of its supply chain. Corteva provides them with rigorous training, planning tools and access to a system that tests and advances products matched to specific geographic needs. The company s R D and supply chain groups work seamlessly to select and maintain product characteristics that enhance the quality of its seed products and solutions. The company focuses on customer-driven innovation to deliver the best germplasm and trait technologies. With its large sets of digitized data and its seed field management solution, the company can manage its field operations efficiently and draw insights from data quickly and effectively. This allows the company s supply chain to react quickly to changing customer needs and provides R D with tremendous amounts of data to analyze and incorporate into resource allocation decisions. The company continues to invest in and build capabilities that drive value via data digitization and analytics that enable it to create an even more responsive and efficient answer to customer needs. Crop Protection The crop protection segment serves the global agricultural input industry with products that protect against weeds, insects and other pests, and disease, and that improve overall crop health both above and below ground via nitrogen management and seed-applied technologies. The company offers crop protection solutions that provide farmers the tools they need to improve productivity and profitability, and help keep fields free of weeds, insects and diseases. The company is a leader in global herbicides, insecticides, above-ground nitrogen stabilizers and pasture and range management herbicides. Details on the crop protection segment s net sales by major product line and geographic region (based on customer location) are as follows: 7 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS, continued Products and Brands The crop protection segment s major brands and technologies, by key product line, are listed below: Insect and Nematode Management CLOSER ; DELEGATE ; INTREPID ; ISOCLAST ; LANNATE ; EXALT ; PEXALON ; TRANSFORM ; VYDATE ; OPTIMUM ; RADIANT ; SENTRICON ; ENTRUST SC; GF-120 ; and TRACER Disease Management APROACH PRIMA; VESSARYA ; APPROACH POWER ; TALENDO ; TALIUS ; EQUATION PRO ; EQUATION CONTACT ; ZORVEC ; DITHANE ; INATREQ ; CURZATE ; TANOS , FONTELIS ; ACANTO ; and GALILEO Weed Control ARIGO ; ARYLEX ; ENLIST weed control system; ENLIST DUO ; BROADWAY ; RINSKOR ; ZYPAR ; MUSTANG ; GALLANT ; VERDICT ; LANCET ; KERB ; PIXXARO ; QUELEX ; GALLERY ; CENT-7 ; SNAPSHOT ; TRELLIS ; CITADEL ; CLIPPER ; GRANITE ; RAINBOW ; PINDAR GT; VIPER ; WIDEATTACK ; BELKAR ; WIDEMATCH ; PERFECTMATCH ; CLINCHER ; DURANGO ; FENCER ; GARLON ; SONIC ; TEXARO ; KEYSTONE ; PACTO ; LIGATE ; DIMENSION ; TOPSHOT ; RICER ; LOYANT ; CLASSIC ; REALM Q; TRIVENCE ; LONTREL ; GRAZON ; PANZER ; PRIMUS ; RESICORE ; SPIDER ; STARANE ; SURESTART ; and TORDON Nitrogen Management INSTINCT ; N-SERVE Nitrogen Stabilizer; N-LOCK ; and PinnitMax Key Raw Materials The key raw materials and supplies for crop protection include chlorinated pyridines derivatives, specialty intermediates and technical grade active ingredients, chlorine, and seed treatments. Typically, the company purchases major raw materials through long-term contracts with multiple suppliers, which sometimes require minimum purchase commitments. Certain important raw materials are supplied by a few major suppliers. The company expects the markets for its raw materials to remain balanced, though pricing may be volatile given the current state of the global economy. The company relies on contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain inputs or key components for its product formulations. These inputs are typically sourced close to where the company ultimately formulates and sells its products. The company strives to maintain multiple high-quality supply sources for each input. Corteva s supply chain strategy will involve managing global supplies of active and intermediate ingredients sourced regionally with global best practices and oversight. Corteva s supply strategy includes a robust and flexible global footprint to meet future portfolio growth. The company s supply chain also provides competitive advantages including reducing time to meet customer requirements in regions while minimizing costs through the value chain. Seasonality Corteva s sales are generally strongest in the first half of the calendar year, which aligns with the planting and growing season in the northern hemisphere. The company typically generates about 65 percent of its sales in the first half of the calendar year, driven by northern hemisphere seed and crop protection sales. The company generates about 35 percent of its sales in the second half of the calendar year, led by seed sales in the southern hemisphere. The seasonality in sales impacts both the seed and crop protection segments. The company s direct distribution channel, where products are shipped to farmers, is more affected by planting delays than its competitors. Generally speaking, unfavorable weather slows the planting season and can affect the company s quarterly results and sales mix. Severe unfavorable weather, however, can impact overall sales. Accounts receivable tends to be higher durin