Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 48 Item 2. Properties 47 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 48 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6. [Reserved] 51 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 70 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 72 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Item 9B. Other Information 127 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 128 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 129 Item 11. Executive Compensation 129 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 129 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 129 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 129 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 130 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 130 Signatures 132 PART I In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, "we," "our," "us," "Carvana," and "the Company" refer to Carvana Co. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contain statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based on our current beliefs, expectations, and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, and other future conditions. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipate," "believe," "contemplate," "continue," "could," "envision," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "ongoing," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "target," "will," "would," and other similar expressions or variations or negatives of these words, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding: expectations relating to the used car market and our industry; macroeconomic conditions, economic slowdown or recessions; future financial position; business strategy; budgets, projected costs, and plans; future industry growth; financing sources; short-and long-term liquidity; the impact of litigation, government inquiries, and investigations; and all other statements regarding our intent, plans, beliefs, or expectations or those of our directors or officers. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions, and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements we make. Important factors that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, those discussed under Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent our views as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Market and Industry Data Some of the market and industry data contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is based on industry publications or other publicly available information. Although we believe that these third-party sources are relevant and reliable, we have not independently verified and cannot assure you as to the accuracy or completeness of this information. As a result, you should be aware that the market and industry data contained herein, and our beliefs and estimates based on such data, may not be reliable. 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Carvana Co. is a holding company that was formed as a Delaware corporation on November 29, 2016 to complete an initial public offering ("IPO") and related transactions in order to operate the business of Carvana Group, LLC and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Carvana Group"). Carvana Co. Class A common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "CVNA." Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Carvana," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Carvana Co., Carvana Group, and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our Company Carvana is the leading e-commerce platform for buying and selling used cars. We are transforming the used car buying and selling experience by giving consumers what they want - a wide selection, great value and quality, transparent pricing, and a simple, no pressure transaction. Each element of our business, from inventory procurement to fulfillment and overall ease of the online transaction, has been built for this singular purpose. We provide refreshingly different and convenient experiences for used car buying and selling that can save customers time and money. On our platform, consumers can research and identify a vehicle, inspect it using our patented 360-degree vehicle imaging technology, obtain financing and warranty coverage, purchase the vehicle, and schedule delivery or pick-up, all from their desktop or mobile device. Additionally, a customer can obtain a conditional offer online for their vehicle by answering a few questions without needing to provide service records. Our transaction technologies and online platform transform a traditionally time-consuming process by allowing customers to secure financing, complete a purchase or sale, and schedule delivery or pick-up online in as little as 10 minutes. Our technology and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly and cost-efficiently deliver this experience to our customers. We use proprietary algorithms to optimize our nationally pooled inventory of over 33,000 total website units, inspect and recondition our vehicles based on our inspection process, and operate our own logistics network to deliver cars directly to customers in our markets as soon as the same day in certain markets. Customers in certain markets also have the option to pick up their vehicle at one of our patented vending machines, which provides an exciting pick-up experience for the customer while decreasing our variable costs, increasing scalability and building brand awareness. In addition, through our acquisition (the "ADESA Acquisition") of ADESA U.S. Auction, LLC ("ADESA"), we also have 56 auction sites throughout the U.S., which enhance our customer offering by facilitating a broader selection of vehicles and faster delivery times. The automotive retail industry s large size, fragmentation, and lack of differentiated offerings present an opportunity for disruption. We have demonstrated that our custom-built business model can capitalize on this opportunity. From the launch of our first market in January 2013 through December 31, 2023, we purchased, reconditioned, sold, and delivered 1.7 million retail vehicles to customers through our website, cumulatively generating $50.1 billion in revenue. Our sales have grown since our inception as we have increased our market penetration in our existing markets and added new markets. As of December 31, 2023, we have established a logistics network and local marketing presence in 316 metropolitan cities and our in-house distribution network services 81.1% of the U.S. population, and in the long term we plan to continue to expand our population coverage. 2 Industry Background Market Opportunity Large and Fragmented Market The U.S. automotive industry generated approximately $1.2 trillion in sales in 2022, according to a 2023 NADA Auto Retailing market summary. Further, automotive and auto parts sales represented roughly 22% of the U.S. retail economy in 2022, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Based on Cox Automotive data, there were an estimated 35.9 million used vehicle transactions in 2023. The used car retail industry is highly fragmented. As of 2021, the largest dealer brand commanded approximately 2.3% of the U.S. market and the top 100 used car retailers collectively held approximately 11.1% market share, according to Automotive News. Additionally, consumers are often dissatisfied with the traditional used car buying process. According to the 2023 Cox Automotive Car Buyer Journey Study, only 68% of used car buyers were satisfied with the experience. The traditional used car retailing model is costly, operationally challenging and difficult to scale. Providing an end-to-end solution requires inspection, repair, reconditioning and showroom facilities, as well as inventory sourcing and financing capabilities, substantially all of which is traditionally done at each dealership location. Additional variable costs include the salaries of on-site employees, inventory financing fees, and vehicle transportation costs. Additional challenges in automotive retailing, both online and offline, stem from the following unique characteristics of selling cars: big ticket item, often representing the second most expensive purchase many consumers make and finance, and one of the customer s largest and longest life cycle purchases; range of taste in make, model, body style, price, year, mileage, color, drivetrain, and features; complex transaction often involving a vehicle trade-in, financing, and the purchase of add-on service products to protect the customer s investment; reliance on third parties for critical business functions; and state and local regulatory variability. The Way Consumers Buy Cars Is Changing Consumers no longer rely solely on traditional media and dealerships to discover and research vehicles. In fact, the 2023 Car Buyer Journey report from Cox Automotive indicates that a typical used car buyer spends approximately seven hours researching his or her prospective car purchase online. As e-commerce has become more established, reaching 15.6% of total retail sales in the U.S. during the first three quarters of 2023 according to the U.S. Census Bureau, consumers have become more comfortable buying taste-driven, higher-priced products such as consumer electronics and home furnishings online. Similarly, auto consumers are interested in e-commerce solutions for their car purchasing needs - 64% of buyers prefer to experience more of the purchase process online, compared to their last vehicle purchase, according to the 2021 Digitization of End to End Retailing report from Cox Automotive. What Auto Consumers Want As a result of the unique aspects of purchasing a vehicle, consumers have a distinct set of expectations that are challenging for traditional used car retailers to address. Wide selection . Automobiles vary widely in model, style, color, age and price, and consumers exhibit differing tastes, style, and purchasing goals and budgets. This requires dealers to maintain a broad inventory and offer multiple financing, warranty and service plan choices. Traditional used car retailers are limited by staging capacity and anticipated local demand at each dealership; they generally lack the logistical capabilities to source vehicles from other locations quickly and cost-effectively. Additionally, even as traditional used car retailers add new store locations, it remains 3 difficult to create broad diversity of inventory among stores because each lot requires the highest demand units, creating redundancies. Value . Auto consumers want consistent quality and fair value. Traditional used car retailers have high overhead costs and must pass these costs on to their customers. Confidence in quality . Auto consumers want to have comfort that the vehicle they purchase is mechanically sound and will not require costly repairs or replacement in the near term. Traditional used car retailers may lack the scale and expertise to consistently purchase high-quality vehicles and uniformly recondition them, increasing the incidence of selling a "lemon." Control and no pressure . Auto consumers want to feel in control of the buying process, without being pressured. According to a 2021 Gallup Poll, only 43% of American consumers view the automotive industry positively. The unfavorable consumer sentiment towards the automotive industry creates an opportunity to provide a pressure-free customer experience, through increased control over the purchase process. Fast, simple purchasing process . Auto consumers want their transaction to be convenient, fair and on their own desired timeline. Buying a car at a traditional auto dealership is often a multi-part transaction including vehicle purchase, trade-in, financing and complementary products, and requires nearly three hours on average, according to the 2023 Car Buyer Journey report from Cox Automotive. Carvana s Solution In response to these evolving consumer needs, we built Carvana to provide a no-pressure, no-haggle experience with flexible and fast transactions. Consumers can research and identify a vehicle, inspect it using interactive high-definition photography, obtain financing and warranty coverage, value their current vehicle, complete their purchase, and schedule delivery or pick up, all from our online platform. Our uniformed employees deliver cars to customers in our markets in branded haulers as soon as the same day in certain markets, or customers can pick vehicles up at one of our 38 vending machines. We offer a seven-day return policy on all of our cars sold. The sales process we have built enables our customers to execute their purchases, once a car has been selected, in as little as 10 minutes, and obtain a conditional offer for their current vehicle in as little as two minutes. We aim to deliver the best selection, best value, and best experience for used car buyers and sellers. The Best Selection As of December 31, 2023, we offer all customers a nationally pooled inventory of over 33,000 high-quality used vehicles on our website. We and our partners evaluate and recondition all of the vehicles that we own and offer for sale, which we perform at scale across our network of inspection and reconditioning centers ("IRCs") or auction locations with reconditioning capacity. Our customer research indicates that size and range of selection are primary determinants of where customers will transact. We use proprietary algorithms to optimize our inventory acquisition based on extensive used vehicle market and customer behavior data. Furthermore, our nationally pooled inventory system maximizes the breadth of vehicle selection for our customers in any given location. This results in a higher likelihood that customers are able to find the make, model, year, and color combination that they desire. In contrast, traditional dealerships are limited in range of selection because they typically optimize a local inventory of a few hundred vehicles at each dealership location, even if they own thousands of vehicles across multiple distributed locations. The Best Value Our proprietary technology and vertically integrated business model allow us to enjoy a significantly lower variable cost structure at scale versus traditional dealerships and to provide substantial value to our customers. We do not require a network of brick-and-mortar dealerships, staffed with sales personnel; instead, we utilize both an in-house logistics network and patented vending machines to facilitate vehicle delivery and pick-ups. Furthermore, we are able to provide personalized and 4 highly transparent financing terms based on basic customer information that results in faster transaction times, clear lending terms, and competitive interest rates. The Best Experience We aim to provide the best car buying and selling experience available for our customers through a fully integrated, convenient online experience. Our patented 360-degree vehicle imaging technology provides transparency by allowing customers to view vehicle features and imperfections. We also provide automated vehicle valuations for buying vehicles from customers with or without a retail purchase, automated financing, vehicle service contracts ("VSC"), auto insurance, GAP waiver coverage, limited warranty, and other ancillary products. Customers can easily select among thousands of preapproved financing terms and receive approval in seconds. We offer a premium fulfillment experience with pick-up and delivery options, including pick-up at our vending machines or hubs, and as soon as same day deliveries, depending on the market. Our in-house customer advocates are available to answer customer questions that arise throughout the process. At every customer touch point, we strive to provide the level of customer service that makes purchasing a car from us an enjoyable, memorable experience. Finally, we offer seven-day return and 100-day limited warranty policies with every car we sell, subject to a deductible. We believe that our customers value the ease of use and transparency of our platform. They have responded favorably to our solution, as illustrated by the ratings we receive. Our customers rated us an average of 4.7 out of 5.0 as of December 31, 2023 based on over 195,000 satisfaction surveys from our inception through December 31, 2023. These positive reactions create opportunities for repeat customers and a strong referral network. Strengths Competitive Advantages Our business model is disrupting the traditional used vehicle sales model. As discussed below under Our Growth Strategies, during continued macroeconomic uncertainty, our highest priority remains to provide exceptional customer experiences while increasing operating efficiency. We expect to use the strengths of our business model to support efficient growth in retail units sold and increase our gross profit per unit. Since our inception in 2012, we have been developing and leveraging the following key strengths of our robust platform, which we believe provide significant competitive advantages. Purpose-Built Vertically Integrated E-commerce Platform We built our used car e-commerce platform because we believe a lower and differentiated cost structure is critical to providing a seamless, best-in-class car buying and selling experience. We believe that traditional dealerships and other technology-enabled auto platforms do not provide this type of experience, and that our end-to-end model allows us to offer a superior solution while reducing our cost of operations and enhancing our ability to offer complementary products and services. Our vertically integrated platform gives us control of all critical operations and transaction elements, which facilitates a fast, simple, and consistent user experience. We control the algorithms that help determine the vehicles we make available to our customers, the prices of those vehicles, the financing terms, VSC and GAP waiver coverage options, and the trade-in values we offer. Additionally, we control the logistics infrastructure that enables us to offer customers fast, specific, and reliable delivery and pick-up times. We have invested heavily in our custom designed website to provide a cutting-edge user interface and have built a team of in-house customer advocates that is dedicated to providing first-rate customer service. Differentiated Shopping Experience We have developed technology that makes the online vehicle purchasing process intuitive, transparent and fun. Our patented photo technology, paired with custom photo processing and display technology, provides an interactive way for consumers to search for vehicles and take a virtual tour of the interior and exterior of a vehicle using annotated, high-definition photography. We believe this technology, coupled with our certification process and seven-day return policy, generates the confidence and trust in our platform needed to buy a car online. Proprietary Financing Technology Our differentiated financing solutions provide customers with nearly instantaneous credit decisions as well as flexibility and transparency in financing their vehicle purchase. We preapprove thousands of down payment and monthly payment combinations that allow customers to choose their preferred financing. We preapprove these terms utilizing "soft credit checks" which do not impact a customer s credit unless they complete a purchase and financing transaction. Due to our relatively low car prices, our customers generally have lower PTI (Payment to Income) ratios, lower LTV (Loan to Value) ratios, or higher 5 quality vehicles underlying their financing transactions than they would have at higher prices. This significantly enhances the quality of the loans that we generate and the premium we can capture when we sell them through securitization transactions or to our financing partners. Efficient Logistics Network and Attractive Fulfillment Experience We have developed proprietary logistics software and an in-house delivery network that differentiates us from competitors by allowing us to predictably and efficiently transport cars while providing customers a distinctive fulfillment experience. Our home delivery is typically conducted by a Carvana employee on a branded delivery truck. Customers in certain markets can also pick up their vehicles at one of our patented car vending machines, which are multi-story glass towers that store purchased vehicles. These vending machines provide an attractive and unique experience for our customers and develop brand awareness while lowering our variable fulfillment expenses. Following the opening of a vending machine in one of our markets, our market penetration has typically seen a meaningful increase while our variable operating costs per car sold have typically decreased. In the long-term, we intend to grow our logistics network and build vending machines in many of the metropolitan markets that we serve. Scaled Used Vehicle Infrastructure As of December 31, 2023, we leverage a network of reconditioning centers throughout the U.S. and supporting software for our vehicle reconditioning and logistics activities that required significant investment in time and capital to develop. We believe these facilities at full utilization would give us capacity to inspect and recondition 1.3 million cars per year. Our proprietary inventory management system and Transportation Management System ("TMS"), combined with our expertise and experience gained from operating these facilities, position us well to continue to build out additional reconditioning and distribution centers as needed. Scale Driving Powerful Network Effects Our business benefits from powerful network effects. Our logistics capabilities, when fully utilized, could allow us to offer almost every car in the Carvana inventory to customers across all of our markets. Over time, we anticipate further expanding our national inventory and promoting these network effects. Our Growth Strategies The foundation of our business is retail vehicle unit sales. This drives the majority of our revenue and allows us to capture additional revenue streams associated with financing, VSCs, auto insurance and GAP waiver coverage, as well as trade-in vehicles. As we evolve, we believe we will continue to improve conversion on these revenues and expand our offering of complementary products. However, all of these additional revenue opportunities are derived from retail vehicle unit sales and, as a result, our growth strategies are primarily focused on this metric. Our ability to generate vehicle sales is a function of our market penetration in existing markets, the number of markets we operate in, and our ability to build and maintain our brand by offering great value, transparency and outstanding customer service. Since launching Carvana eleven years ago, our vertically integrated, customer-centered offering has enabled us to become one of the largest used automotive retailers in the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2023. In 2022, as a result of changes in the economy, the market, and the industry, we shifted our priorities to focus on driving profitability through fundamental operating efficiency. We carried these profitability initiatives forward throughout 2023, in which we sought to rapidly decrease expenses while optimizing for volume flexibility. During the current macroeconomic uncertainty, and as we continue current initiatives to bolster unit economics, our highest priority will continue to be providing exceptional customer experiences while improving efficiency and maximizing our infrastructure to support efficient growth in retail units sold. However, our long-term strategy is to continue growing our vehicle unit sales, market penetration, number of markets, and complementary product revenues while enhancing competitive positioning by executing the following key elements of our growth strategy: Increase Sales Through Further Penetration of Our Existing Markets Our growth has historically been driven by increasing market penetration in our existing markets. Due to the current macroeconomic environment and our profitability initiatives, we are focusing on operating efficiencies in the short term. 6 However, our long-term plan includes marketing and actively building our brand image and awareness in existing markets by improving our operations, opening additional vending machines, and increasing our inventory size. Optimize Our Inventory Selection As discussed above, while, in furtherance of our profitability initiatives, we have been focusing on normalizing our inventory in the short term, as the Company returns to growth, we anticipate continuing to optimize and broaden the selection of vehicles we make available to our customers. Expanding our inventory selection increases the likelihood that each visitor to our site finds a vehicle that matches his or her preferences and benefits all existing markets simultaneously due to our nationally pooled inventory model. Expanding our inventory selection depends on our ability to source and acquire a sufficient number of appropriate used vehicles, including acquiring more vehicles from customers, to develop processes for effectively utilizing capacity in our IRCs, and to hire and train employees to staff these centers. With the addition of ADESA's 56 auction sites, we estimate that 80% of the U.S. population is now within 100 miles of an IRC or auction site, which shortens the distance from our inventory pools to our customers, thereby reducing delivery times, which, all else equal, should increase conversions. Continue to Innovate and Extend Our Technology Leadership In the long term, we will continue to make significant investments in improving and adding to our customer offering. We believe that the complexity of automotive retail transactions provides substantial opportunity for technology investment and that our leadership and continued growth will enable us to responsibly invest in further separating ourselves from our competitors offerings. In addition to our own internal developments, we have acquired purpose-built technology and employees from third-party companies, which we believe have not only extended our technology leadership, but added talented entrepreneurs to our team. Continue to Enhance Our Mobile Sales Platform We will continue investing in our mobile platform to enhance our customers ability to search for, research, finance, sell, and purchase vehicles entirely on mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets. As discussed above, a typical car buyer spends approximately seven hours conducting online research before purchasing a vehicle, according to the 2023 Car Buyer Journey report from Cox Automotive. In addition, a 2022 Pew Research study indicates that 76% of U.S. adults say they make purchases using a mobile device and one in three make mobile purchases weekly. Growth in mobile-only sales depends on our ability to deliver an innovative, appealing mobile experience, as well as customers tastes for buying exclusively on mobile devices. Develop Broad Consumer Awareness of Our Brand We believe our brand development efforts meaningfully impact our ability to acquire new customers. We intend to continue attracting new customers through advertising, public relations, customer referrals and customers selling us their vehicles. We also have built and in the long term, we plan to continue to build vending machines in additional markets to capitalize on word-of-mouth publicity in building awareness of our brand. Generate Referrals and Repeat Customers Our growth is enhanced by providing a superior customer experience, which drives our ability to generate customer referrals and repeat sales. Develop New Products We plan to continue leveraging our existing e-commerce and logistics infrastructure to increase monetization opportunities by introducing new complementary products and services. The car purchasing and ownership cycle provides many opportunities to add value for our customers and our technology expertise and process automation position us well to provide these services in unique and differentiated ways. Customer Lifecycle Search and Discovery. We have developed a mobile-optimized website, where prospective car buyers can immediately begin browsing, researching, filtering and identifying their choice from an inventory of over 33,000 total website units that we offer for sale. We have also developed a