Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 45 Item 2. Properties 45 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure 46 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 73 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 129 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 129 Item 9B. Other Information 129 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 130 Item 11. Executive Compensation 130 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 130 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 130 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 130 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 131 Signatures 136 PART I In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, "we," "our," "us," "Carvana," and "the Company" refer to Carvana Co. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us, contain statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based on our current beliefs, expectations, and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, and other future conditions. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipate," "believe," "envision," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," "target," "potential," "will," "would," "could," "should," "continue," "ongoing," "contemplate," and other similar expressions, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding: future financial position; business strategy; budgets, projected costs and plans; future industry growth; financing sources; the impact of litigation, government inquiries, and investigations; and all other statements regarding our intent, plans, beliefs, or expectations or those of our directors or officers. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions, or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions, and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements we make. Important factors that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our history of losses and ability to maintain profitability in the future; our ability to effectively manage our rapid growth; our ability to maintain customer service quality and reputational integrity and enhance our brand; our limited operating history; the seasonal and other fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; our relationship with DriveTime and its affiliates; our management s accounting judgments and estimates, as well as changes to accounting policies; our ability to compete in the highly competitive industry in which we participate; the changes in prices of new and used vehicles; our ability to acquire desirable inventory; 1 our ability to sell our inventory expeditiously; our ability to sell and generate gains on the sale of automotive finance receivables; our dependence on the sale of automotive finance receivables for a substantial portion of our gross profits; our reliance on credit data for the automotive finance receivables we sell; our ability to successfully market and brand our business; our reliance on internet searches to drive traffic to our website; our ability to comply with the laws and regulations to which we are subject; the changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject; our ability to comply with the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991; the evolution of regulation of the internet and e-commerce; our ability to grow complementary product and service offerings; our ability to address the shift to mobile device technology by our customers; risks related to the larger automotive ecosystem; the geographic concentration where we provide services and recondition and store vehicle inventory; our ability to obtain affordable inventory insurance; our ability to raise additional capital; our ability to maintain adequate relationships with the lenders that finance our vehicle inventory purchases; the representations we make in our finance receivables we sell; our reliance on our proprietary credit scoring model in the forecasting of loss rates; our reliance on internal and external logistics to transport our vehicle inventory; the risks associated with the construction and operation of our inspection and reconditioning centers, hubs and vending machines, including our dependence on one supplier for construction and maintenance for our vending machines; our ability to finance vending machines and inspection and reconditioning centers; our ability to protect the personal information and other data that we collect, process and store; disruptions in availability and functionality of our website; our ability to protect our intellectual property, technology, and confidential information; our ability to defend against claims that our employees, consultants, or advisors have wrongfully used or disclosed trade secrets or intellectual property; our ability to defend against intellectual property disputes; our ability to comply with the terms of open source licenses; 2 conditions affecting vehicle manufacturers, including manufacturer recalls; our reliance on third party technology to complete critical business functions; our dependence on key personnel to operate our business; the resources required to comply with public company obligations; the diversion of management s attention and other disruptions associated with potential future acquisitions and strategic initiatives; the restrictions that could limit the flexibility in operating our business imposed by the covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes; the legal proceedings to which we may be subject in the ordinary course of business; and risks relating to our corporate structure and tax receivable agreements. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K represent our views as of the date of this Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Market and Industry Data Some of the market and industry data contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on independent industry publications or other publicly available information. Although we believe that these independent sources are reliable, we have not independently verified and cannot assure you as to the accuracy or completeness of this information. As a result, you should be aware that the market and industry data contained herein, and our beliefs and estimates based on such data, may not be reliable. 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Carvana Co. is a holding company that was formed as a Delaware corporation on November 29, 2016 to complete an initial public offering ("IPO") and related transactions in order to operate the business of Carvana Group, LLC and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Carvana Group"). Carvana Co. Class A common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CVNA." See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for additional information about our IPO and organizational transactions completed in connection with our IPO. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "Carvana," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to both Carvana Group and its consolidated subsidiaries prior to the IPO described in this report and to Carvana Co. and its consolidated subsidiaries following the IPO and organizational transactions completed in connection with our IPO. Our Company Carvana is a leading e-commerce platform for buying and selling used cars. We are transforming the used car buying and selling experience by giving consumers what they want a wide selection, great value and quality, transparent pricing, and a simple, no-pressure transaction. Each element of our business, from inventory procurement to fulfillment and overall ease of the online transaction, has been built for this singular purpose. We provide refreshingly different and convenient experiences for used car buying and selling that can save customers time and money. On our platform, consumers can research and identify a vehicle, inspect it using our patented 360-degree vehicle imaging technology, obtain financing and warranty coverage, purchase the vehicle, and schedule delivery or pick-up, all from their desktop or mobile devices. Alternatively, a customer can obtain a firm offer online for their vehicle by answering a few questions without needing to provide photos or service records. Our transaction technologies and online platform transform a traditionally time consuming process by allowing customers to secure financing, complete a purchase or sale, and schedule delivery or pick-up online in as little as 10 minutes. Our technology and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly and cost efficiently deliver this experience to our customers. We use proprietary algorithms to optimize our nationally pooled inventory of over 25,000 vehicles, inspect and recondition our vehicles based on our 150-point inspection process, and operate our own logistics network to deliver cars directly to customers as soon as the next day. Customers in certain markets also have the option to pick up their vehicle at one of our patented vending machines, which provides an exciting pick-up experience for the customer while decreasing our variable costs, increasing scalability and building brand awareness. The automotive retail industry s large size, fragmentation, and lack of differentiated offerings present an opportunity for disruption. We have demonstrated that our custom-built business model can capitalize on this opportunity. From the launch of our first market in January 2013 through December 31, 2019, we purchased, reconditioned, sold, and delivered approximately 343,500 vehicles to customers through our website, generating approximately $7.3 billion in revenue. Our sales have grown as we have increased our market penetration in our current markets and added new markets. As of December 31, 2019, our in-house distribution network services 146 metropolitan markets, and we plan to continue to expand our network into additional markets. Industry Background Market Opportunity Exceptionally Large and Fragmented Market The U.S. automotive industry generated approximately $1.0 trillion in sales in 2018, according to the NADA Data 2018 report. This comprised roughly 20% of the U.S. retail economy and made it the largest consumer retail market in the United States according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Cox Automotive estimated 39.5 million used vehicle transactions in 2019. The used car retail industry is highly fragmented. There were approximately 43,000 used car dealerships in the U.S. according to Borrell Associates' 2017 Outlook. As of 2018, the largest dealer brand commands approximately 1.8% of the U.S. market and the top 100 used car retailers collectively hold approximately 8.6% market share, according to Automotive News. Additionally, consumers are often dissatisfied with the car buying process. According to the 2019 Cox Automotive Car Buyer Journey Study, 61% of car buyers do not feel the shopping experience has improved, with paperwork and negotiations being the most frustrating parts of the purchase process. The traditional used car retailing model is costly, operationally challenging and difficult to scale. Providing an end-to-end solution requires inspection, repair, reconditioning and showroom facilities, as well as inventory sourcing and financing 4 capabilities, substantially all of which is traditionally done at each dealership location. According to publicly listed dealership filings, some full-service dealerships providing all of these services can require an initial investment of up to $22 million per dealership. Additional variable costs include the salaries of on-site employees, inventory financing fees, and vehicle transportation costs. Customer acquisition is expensive and inefficient for traditional automotive retailers as they are typically confined to local advertising channels and must drive foot traffic to their physical locations, where they offer an often undifferentiated service and limited inventory. Additional challenges in automotive retailing, both online and offline, stem from the following unique characteristics of selling cars: big ticket item, often representing the second most expensive purchase many consumers make and finance, and one of the customer s largest and longest life cycle purchases; range of taste in make, model, body style, price, year, mileage, color, drivetrain, and features; complex transaction often involving a vehicle trade-in, financing, and the purchase of add-on service products to protect the customer s investment; reliance on third parties for critical business functions; and state and local regulatory variability. The Way Consumers Buy Cars Is Changing Historically, consumers discovered vehicles for sale through local print and broadcast media, as well as word of mouth, and would go to dealerships to educate themselves on potential purchases. However, consumers no longer rely solely on traditional media and dealerships to discover and research vehicles. According to a MediaPost article from April 2018, 91% of vehicle shoppers utilize the internet. In fact, the 2019 Car Buyer Journey report from Autotrader indicates that a typical used car buyer spends approximately nine hours researching his or her prospective car purchase online. As e-commerce has become more established, reaching 11.2% of total retail sales in the U.S. during the first three quarters of 2019 according to the U.S. Census Bureau, consumers have become more comfortable buying taste-driven, higher-priced products such as consumer electronics and home furnishings online. Similarly, auto consumers are interested in e-commerce solutions for their car purchasing needs 83% of U.S. car buyers want to do one or more steps of the car purchasing process online, according to the 2019 Cox Automotive Future of Digital Retail Study. What Auto Consumers Want As a result of the unique aspects of purchasing a vehicle, consumers have a distinct set of expectations that are challenging for traditional used car retailers to address. Wide selection . Automobiles vary widely in model, style, color, age and price, and consumers exhibit differing tastes, style, and purchasing goals and budgets. This requires dealers to maintain a broad inventory and offer multiple financing, warranty and service plan choices. Traditional used car retailers are limited by staging capacity and anticipated local demand at each dealership; they generally lack the logistical capabilities to source vehicles from other locations quickly and cost-effectively. Additionally, even as traditional used car retailers add new store locations, it remains difficult to create broad diversity of inventory among stores because each lot requires the highest demand units, creating redundancies. Value . Auto consumers want consistent, fair value. Traditional used car retailers have high overhead costs and must pass these costs on to their customers. 5 Confidence in quality . Auto consumers want to have comfort that the vehicle they purchase is mechanically sound and will not require costly repairs or replacement in the near term. Traditional used car retailers may lack the scale and expertise to consistently purchase high-quality vehicles and uniformly recondition them, increasing the incidence of selling a "lemon." Control and no pressure . Auto consumers want to feel in control of the buying process, without being pressured. According to a 2019 Gallup Poll, only 53% of American consumers view the automotive industry positively. In addition, only 58% of people trust that used car dealerships can provide the best deal, according to the 2018 Cox Automotive Car Buyer Journey. Fast, simple purchasing process . Auto consumers want their transaction to be convenient, fair and on their own desired timeline. Buying a car at a traditional auto dealership is often a multi-part transaction including vehicle purchase, trade-in, financing and complementary products, and requires over two hours on average, according to the 2019 Car Buyer Journey report from Cox Automotive, and half of that is spent doing paperwork and negotiating. Carvana s Solution In response to these evolving consumer needs, we built Carvana to provide a no-pressure, no-haggle experience with flexible and fast transactions. Consumers can research and identify a vehicle, inspect it using interactive high definition photography, obtain financing and warranty coverage, value their current vehicle, complete their purchase, and schedule delivery or pick up, all from our online platform. Our uniformed employees deliver cars to customers in branded haulers as soon as the next day, and we offer a seven-day return policy on all of our cars sold. The sales process we have built enables our customers to execute their purchases, once a car has been selected, in as little as 10 minutes and obtain a value for their current vehicle in as little as two minutes. We aim to deliver the best selection, best value, and best experience for used car buyers and sellers. The Best Selection As of December 31, 2019, we offer all customers a nationally pooled inventory of over 25,000 high-quality used vehicles. We evaluate all of the vehicles that we own and offer for sale using our 150-point "Carvana Certified" inspection process, which we are able to perform at scale across our network of inspection and reconditioning centers ("IRCs"). Our customer research indicates that size and range of selection are primary determinants of where customers will transact. We use proprietary algorithms to optimize our inventory acquisition based on extensive used vehicle market and customer behavior data. Furthermore, our nationally pooled inventory system maximizes the breadth of vehicle selection for our customers in any given location. This results in a higher likelihood that customers are able to find the make, model, year, and color combination that they desire. In contrast, traditional dealerships are limited in range of selection because they typically optimize a local inventory of a few hundred vehicles at each dealership location, even if they own thousands of vehicles across multiple distributed locations. The Best Value Our proprietary technology and vertically integrated business model will allow us to enjoy a significantly lower variable cost structure at scale versus traditional dealerships and provide substantial value to our customers. We do not require a network of brick-and-mortar dealerships, staffed with sales personnel; instead, we utilize both an in-house logistics network and patented vending machines to facilitate vehicle delivery and pick-ups. These savings are passed on to the consumer through sales prices that are below industry averages. Additionally, we believe our pooled inventory approach will result in lower average days to sale than industry averages, which we expect will help improve margins due to decreased vehicle depreciation resulting in higher unit selling price. Furthermore, we are able to provide personalized and highly transparent financing terms based on basic customer information that results in faster transaction times, clear lending terms, and competitive interest rates. 6 The Best Experience We aim to provide the best car buying and selling experience available for our customers through a fully integrated, convenient online experience. Our patented 360-degree vehicle imaging technology provides transparency by allowing customers to view vehicle features and imperfections. We also provide automated vehicle valuations for buying vehicles from customers with or without a retail purchase, automated financing, vehicle service contracts ("VSC"), GAP waiver coverage, and limited warranty. Customers can easily select among thousands of preapproved financing terms and receive approval in seconds. We offer a premium fulfillment experience with pick-up and delivery options available, including pick-up at our vending machines in some markets. Our in-house customer advocates are available to answer customer questions that arise throughout the process. At every customer touch point, we strive to provide the level of customer service that makes purchasing a car from us an enjoyable, memorable experience. Finally, we offer seven-day return and 100-day warranty policies with every car we sell. We believe that our customers value the ease of use and transparency of our platform. They have responded favorably to our solution, as illustrated by the ratings we receive. Our customers rated us an average of 4.7 out of 5.0 as of December 31, 2019 based on over 45,000 satisfaction surveys we solicited from our inception through December 31, 2019. These positive reactions create opportunities for repeat customers and a strong referral network. Strengths Competitive Advantages Our business model is disrupting the traditional used vehicle sales model. Our primary goal is to rapidly scale vehicle unit sales by focusing on delivering an unparalleled customer experience. Since our inception in 2012, we have been developing and leveraging the following key strengths of our robust platform, which we believe provide significant competitive advantages. Purpose-Built Vertically Integrated E-commerce Platform We built our used car e-commerce platform because we believe a lower and differentiated cost structure is critical to providing a seamless, best-in-class car buying and selling experience. We believe that traditional dealerships and other technology-enabled auto platforms do not provide this type of experience, and that our end-to-end model allows us to offer a superior solution while reducing our cost of operations and enhancing our ability to offer complementary products and services. Our vertically integrated platform gives us control of all critical operations and transaction elements, which facilitates a fast, simple, and consistent user experience. We control the algorithms that help determine the vehicles we make available to our customers, the prices of those vehicles, the financing terms, and VSC and GAP waiver coverage options available to our customers and the trade-in values we offer. Additionally, we control the logistics infrastructure that enables us to offer customers fast, specific, and reliable delivery and pick-up times. We have invested heavily in our custom designed website to provide a cutting-edge user interface, and have built a team of in-house customer advocates that is dedicated to providing first-rate customer service. Differentiated Shopping Experience We have developed technology that makes the online vehicle purchasing process intuitive, transparent and fun. Our patented photo booth, paired with custom photo processing and display technology, provides an interactive way for consumers to search for vehicles and take a virtual tour of the interior and exterior of a vehicle using annotated, high definition photography. We believe this technology, coupled with our certification process and seven-day return policy, generates the confidence and trust in our platform needed to buy a car online. Proprietary Financing Technology Our differentiated financing solutions provide customers with nearly instantaneous credit decisions as well as flexibility and transparency in financing their vehicle purchase. We preapprove thousands of down payment and monthly payment combinations that allow customers to choose their preferred financing. We preapprove these terms utilizing "soft credit checks" which do not impact a customer s credit unless they complete a purchase and financing transaction. Due to our relatively low car prices, our customers generally have lower PTI (Payment to Income) ratios, lower LTV (Loan to Value) ratios, or higher quality vehicles underlying their financing transactions than they would have at higher prices. This significantly enhances the quality of the loans that we generate and the premium we can capture when we sell them to our financing partners. 7 Efficient Logistics Network and Attractive Fulfillment Experience We have developed proprietary logistics software and an in-house delivery network that differentiates us from competitors by allowing us to predictably and efficiently transport cars while providing customers a distinctive fulfillment experience. Our home delivery is conducted by a Carvana employee on a branded delivery truck. Customers in certain markets can also pick up their vehicles at one of our patented car vending machines, which are multi-story glass towers that store purchased vehicles. These vending machines provide an attractive and unique experience for our customers and develop brand awareness while lowering our variable fulfillment expenses. Following the opening of a vending machine in one of our markets, our market penetration has seen a meaningful increase while our variable operating costs per car sold have decreased. We intend to grow our logistics network and build vending machines in many of the metropolitan markets that we serve. Scaled Used Vehicle Infrastructure As of December 31, 2019, we leverage a network of seven IRCs and supporting software for our vehicle reconditioning and logistics activities that required significant investment in time and capital to develop. We believe these facilities at full utilization give us capacity to inspect and recondition approximately 350,000 cars per year. Our proprietary inventory management system and Transportation Management System ("TMS"), combined with our expertise and experience gained from operating these facilities, position us well to continue to build out additional reconditioning and distribution centers as needed. Scale Driving Powerful Network Effects Our business benefits from powerful network effects. Our logistics capabilities allow us to offer every car in our inventory to customers across all of our markets. As we add markets, we expect to increase overall demand, which would enable us to carry a larger inventory. A broader vehicle inventory would further improve our offering across our markets, enabling us to increase market share. Furthermore, we anticipate that increased brand awareness, driven by national advertising, will allow us to expand our national inventory and further these network effects. Our Growth Strategies The foundation of our business is retail vehicle unit sales. This drives the majority of our revenue and allows us to capture additional revenue streams associated with financing, VSCs and GAP waiver coverage, as well as trade-in vehicles. As we mature, we believe we will continue to improve conversion on these revenues and expand our offering of complementary products. However, all of these additional revenue opportunities are derived from retail vehicle unit sales and, as a result, our growth strategies are primarily focused on this metric. Our ability to generate vehicle sales is a function of our market penetration in existing markets, the number of markets we operate in, and our ability to build and maintain our brand by offering great value, transparency and outstanding customer service. Since launching Carvana seven years ago, our growth strategy has vaulted us to being the third largest used automotive retailer in the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2019. We plan to continue growing our vehicle unit sales, market penetration, number of markets, and complementary product revenues while enhancing competitive positioning by executing the following key elements of our growth strategy: Increase Sales Through Further Penetration of Our Existing Markets We believe that our markets are at an early stage of growth when measured by market penetration. Our growth continues to be driven by further market penetration in our existing markets. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our markets opened in 2013 through 2018, grew by 84%, our markets opened in 2013 through 2016 grew by nearly 50%, and our oldest market, Atlanta, grew by 18%, bringing its market penetration above 2.0% for the full year. We plan to continue marketing and actively building our brand image and awareness in existing markets by improving our operations, opening additional vending machines, and increasing our inventory size. Continue to Enter Key Geographic Markets We believe there is a substantial opportunity to utilize our capital-light expansion model and proven go-to-market strategy to enter additional markets by expanding our existing logistics network and advertising in those markets. We believe we can enter more markets than many of the larger dealership groups because of our lower cost structure, which allows us to efficientl