Item 1. Business. Overview CVS Health Corporation ( CVS Health ), together with its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company, we, our or us ), is the nation s premier health innovation company helping people on their path to better health. Whether in one of its pharmacies or through its health services and plans, CVS Health is pioneering a bold new approach to total health by making quality care more affordable, accessible, simple and seamless. CVS Health is community-based and locally focused, engaging consumers with the care they need when and where they need it. The Company has approximately 9,900 retail locations, approximately 1,100 walk-in medical clinics, a leading pharmacy benefits manager with approximately 105 million plan members, a dedicated senior pharmacy care business serving more than one million patients per year and expanding specialty pharmacy services. CVS Health also serves an estimated 37 million people through traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including expanding Medicare Advantage offerings and a leading standalone Medicare Part D prescription drug plan ( PDP ). The Company believes its innovative health care model increases access to quality care, delivers better health outcomes and lowers overall health care costs. On November 28, 2018 (the Aetna Acquisition Date ), the Company acquired Aetna Inc. ( Aetna ) for a combination of cash and CVS Health stock (the Aetna Acquisition ). The Company acquired Aetna to help improve the consumer health care experience by combining Aetna s health care benefits products and services with CVS Health s retail locations, walk-in medical clinics and integrated pharmacy capabilities with the goal of becoming the new, trusted front door to health care. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Aetna shareholders received $145.00 in cash and 0.8378 CVS Health shares for each Aetna share. The transaction valued Aetna at approximately $212 per share or approximately $70 billion. Including the assumption of Aetna s debt, the total value of the transaction was approximately $78 billion. The Company financed the cash portion of the purchase price through a combination of cash on hand and by issuing approximately $45 billion of new debt, including senior notes and term loans. For additional information, see Note 2 Acquisitions and Divestitures included in Item 8 of this 10-K. On October 10, 2018, the Company and Aetna entered into a consent decree with the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ ) that allowed the Company s proposed acquisition of Aetna to proceed, provided Aetna agreed to sell its individual standalone PDPs. As part of the agreement reached with the DOJ, Aetna entered into a purchase agreement with a subsidiary of WellCare Health Plans, Inc. ( WellCare ) for the divestiture of Aetna s standalone PDPs effective December 31, 2018. On November 30, 2018, the Company completed the sale of Aetna s standalone PDPs. The Company provided administrative services to, and retained the financial results of, the divested plans through 2019. Subsequent to 2019, the Company will no longer retain the financial results of the divested plans. Aetna s standalone PDPs had an aggregate of 2.5 million members as of December 31, 2019. As a result of the Aetna Acquisition, the Company added the Health Care Benefits segment. Certain aspects of Aetna s operations, including products for which the Company no longer solicits or accepts new customers, such as large case pensions and long-term care insurance products, are included in the Company s Corporate/Other segment. Effective for the first quarter of 2019, the Company realigned the composition of its segments to correspond with changes to its operating model and reflect how its Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews information and manages the business. As a result of this realignment, the Company s SilverScript PDP moved from the Pharmacy Services segment to the Health Care Benefits segment. In addition, the Company moved Aetna s mail order and specialty pharmacy operations from the Health Care Benefits segment to the Pharmacy Services segment. Segment financial information has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect these changes. See Note 17 Segment Reporting included in Item 8 of this 10-K for segment financial information. The Company has four reportable segments: Pharmacy Services, Retail/LTC, Health Care Benefits and Corporate/Other. Business Strategy CVS Health s purpose of helping people on their path to better health guides the Company s approach to transforming the consumer health experience. The Company is working to create the most consumer-centric health company by being consumer obsessed and pursuing its three strategic goals: be local, make it simple and improve health. These goals are embedded in the Company s four Enterprise priorities: growing and differentiating our businesses, delivering transformational products and services, creating a consumer-centric technology infrastructure and modernizing Enterprise functions and capabilities. The 2 Company believes its strategy of putting the consumer at the center of care will drive long-term sustainable value and place the Company at the forefront of the evolution of health care. Pharmacy Services Segment The Pharmacy Services segment provides a full range of pharmacy benefit management ( PBM ) solutions, including plan design offerings and administration, formulary management, retail pharmacy network management services, mail order pharmacy, specialty pharmacy and infusion services, clinical services, disease management services and medical spend management. The Pharmacy Services segment s clients are primarily employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, health plans, PDPs, Medicaid managed care ( Managed Medicaid ) plans, plans offered on public health insurance exchanges ( Public Exchanges ) and private health insurance exchanges ( Private Exchanges and together with Public Exchanges, Insurance Exchanges ), other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals throughout the U.S. The Pharmacy Services segment includes retail specialty pharmacy stores, specialty mail order pharmacies, mail order dispensing pharmacies, compounding pharmacies and branches for infusion and enteral nutrition services. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , the Company s PBM filled or managed 2.0 billion prescriptions on a 30-day equivalent basis. PBM Services The Company dispenses prescription drugs directly through its mail order dispensing and specialty mail order pharmacies and through pharmacies in its retail network. All prescriptions processed by the Company are analyzed, processed and documented by the Company s proprietary prescription management systems. These systems provide essential features and functionality to allow plan members to utilize their prescription drug benefits. These systems also streamline the process by which prescriptions are processed by staff and network pharmacists by enhancing review of various items through automation, including plan eligibility, early refills, duplicate dispensing, appropriateness of dosage, drug interactions or allergies, over-utilization and potential fraud. Plan Design Offerings and Administration The Company administers pharmacy benefit plans for clients who contract with it to facilitate prescription drug coverage and claims processing for their eligible plan members. The Company assists its PBM clients in designing pharmacy benefit plans that help improve health outcomes while minimizing the costs to the client. The Company also assists PBM clients in monitoring the effectiveness of their plans through frequent, informal communications, the use of proprietary software, as well as through formal annual, quarterly and sometimes monthly performance reviews. The Company makes recommendations to help PBM clients design benefit plans that promote the use of lower cost, clinically appropriate drugs and helps its PBM clients control costs by recommending plan designs that encourage the use of generic equivalents of brand name drugs when such equivalents are available. Clients also have the option, through plan design, to further lower their pharmacy benefit plan costs by setting different member payment levels for different products on their drug lists or formularies, which helps guide members to choose lower cost alternatives through appropriate financial incentives. Formulary Management The Company utilizes an independent panel of doctors, pharmacists and other medical experts, referred to as the CVS Caremark National Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee, to review and approve the selection of drugs that meet the Company s standards of safety and efficacy for inclusion on one of the Company s template formularies. The Company s formularies provide recommended products in numerous drug classes to help ensure member access to clinically appropriate drugs with alternatives within a class under the client s pharmacy benefit plan, while helping to drive the lowest net cost for clients that select one of the Company s formularies. To help improve clinical outcomes for members and clients, the Company conducts ongoing, independent reviews of all drugs, including those appearing on the formularies and generic equivalent products. Many of the Company s clients choose to adopt a template formulary offering as part of their plan design. Beginning in 2018, PBM clients were given new capabilities to offer real time benefits information for a member s specific plan design, provided digitally at the point of prescribing, at the pharmacy and directly to members. Retail Pharmacy Network Management Services The Company maintains a national network of more than 68,000 retail pharmacies, consisting of approximately 41,000 chain pharmacies (which includes CVS Pharmacy locations) and approximately 27,000 independent pharmacies, in the United States, including Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands. When a customer fills a prescription in a retail pharmacy, the pharmacy sends prescription data electronically to the Company from the point-of-sale. This data interfaces with the Company s proprietary prescription management systems, which verify relevant plan member data and eligibility, while also performing a drug utilization review to help evaluate clinical appropriateness and safety and confirming that the 3 pharmacy will receive payment for the prescription. The Company also offers a Performance program for non-Medicare customers. The Performance program may be applied to any network. It can be implemented with either the Company s broad, national network or with a managed network (as allowed by applicable laws and regulations). Under the program, high performing pharmacies are eligible to receive an incremental positive performance payment. The program aligns with key Healthcare Effectiveness Data Information Set measures and is funded by client fees. Mail Order Pharmacy Services The Pharmacy Services segment operates mail order dispensing pharmacies in the United States. Plan members or their prescribers submit prescriptions or refill requests, primarily for maintenance medications, to these pharmacies, and staff pharmacists review these prescriptions and refill requests with the assistance of the Company s prescription management systems. This review may involve communications with the prescriber and, with the prescriber s approval when required, can result in generic substitution, therapeutic interchange or other actions designed to help reduce cost and/or improve quality of treatment. The Company s mail order dispensing pharmacies have been awarded Mail Service Pharmacy accreditation from URAC, a health care accrediting organization that establishes quality standards for the health care industry. Specialty Pharmacy and Infusion Services The Pharmacy Services segment operates specialty mail order pharmacies, retail specialty pharmacy stores and branches for infusion and enteral nutrition services in the United States. These specialty mail order pharmacies are used for delivery of advanced medications to individuals with chronic or genetic diseases and disorders. The Company s specialty mail order pharmacies also have been awarded Specialty Pharmacy accreditation from URAC. Substantially all of the Company s specialty mail order pharmacies also have been accredited by the Joint Commission, which is an independent, not-for-profit organization that accredits and certifies health care programs and organizations in the United States. Clinical Services The Company offers multiple clinical programs and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner. These programs are primarily designed to promote better health outcomes and to help target inappropriate medication utilization and non-adherence to medication, each of which may result in adverse medical events that negatively affect member health and client pharmacy and medical spend. These programs include utilization management ( UM ), medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement the client s plan design and clinical strategies. To help address prescription opioid abuse and misuse, the Company introduced an industry-leading UM approach that limits to seven days the supply of opioids dispensed for certain acute prescriptions for patients who are new to therapy, limits the daily dosage of opioids dispensed based on the strength of the opioid and requires the use of immediate-release formulations of opioids before extended-release opioids are dispensed. The Company s Pharmacy Advisor program facilitates pharmacist counseling, both face-to-face and over the telephone, to help participating plan members with certain chronic diseases, such as diabetes and cardiovascular conditions, to identify gaps in care, adhere to their prescribed medications and manage their health conditions. The Company also has digital connectivity that helps to lower drug costs for patients by providing expanded visibility to lower cost alternatives through enhanced analytics and data sharing. Disease Management Programs The Company s clinical programs and services utilize advanced protocols and offer clients convenience in working with health care providers ( providers ) and other third parties. The Company s utilization management program covers diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, Parkinson s disease, seizure disorders and multiple sclerosis and is accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance ( NCQA ), a private, not-for-profit organization that evaluates, accredits and certifies a wide range of health care organizations. Medical Benefit Management The Company s NovoLogix online preauthorization tool helps identify and capture cost savings opportunities for specialty drugs billed under the medical benefit by identifying outliers to appropriate dosages and costs, and helps to ensure clinically appropriate use of specialty drugs. Pharmacy Services Information Systems The majority of the Pharmacy Services segment s clients have migrated to a single claim adjudication platform. This platform incorporates architecture that centralizes the data generated from filling mail order prescriptions, adjudicating retail pharmacy claims and delivering other solutions to PBM clients. The Health Engagement Engine technology and proprietary clinical algorithms help connect the various parts of the Enterprise and serve an essential role in cost management and health improvement. This capability transforms pharmacy data into actionable interventions at key points of care, such as mail and specialty pharmacists, to help provide quality care. 4 Pharmacy Services Clients The Company s Pharmacy Services clients are primarily employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, health plans, Medicare Part D plans, Managed Medicaid plans and plans offered on Insurance Exchanges, other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals located throughout the United States. Pharmaceuticals are provided to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by clients and utilize the Company s information systems, among other things, to help perform safety checks, drug interaction screening and identify opportunities for generic substitution. Substantially all of the Pharmacy Services segment s revenues are generated from dispensing and managing prescription drugs to eligible members in benefit plans maintained by clients. In 2018 and 2017 , revenues from Aetna accounted for approximately 9.8% and 12.3% , respectively, of the Company s consolidated total revenues. On the Aetna Acquisition Date, Aetna became a wholly-owned subsidiary of CVS Health. Subsequent to the Aetna Acquisition Date, revenues from Aetna continue to be reported in the Pharmacy Services segment; however, these revenues are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Pharmacy Services Seasonality The majority of Pharmacy Services segment revenues are not seasonal in nature. Pharmacy Services Competition The Company believes the primary competitive factors in the pharmacy services industry include: (i) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from drug manufacturers as well as to negotiate favorable discounts from, and access to, retail pharmacy networks; (ii) the ability to identify and apply effective cost management programs utilizing clinical strategies, including the development and utilization of preferred formularies; (iii) the ability to market PBM products and services; (iv) the commitment to provide flexible, clinically-oriented services to clients and be responsive to clients needs; (v) the quality, scope and costs of products and services offered to clients and their members; and (vi) operational excellence in delivering services. The Pharmacy Services segment has a significant number of competitors (e.g., the Express Scripts business of Cigna Corporation, OptumRx, Prime Therapeutics, MedImpact, Humana and PillPack), offering PBM services, including large, national PBM companies, PBMs owned by large national health plans and smaller standalone PBMs. Retail/LTC Segment The Retail/LTC segment sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise, including over-the-counter drugs, beauty products, cosmetics and personal care products, provides health care services through its MinuteClinic walk-in medical clinics and conducts long-term care pharmacy ( LTC ) operations, which distribute prescription drugs and provide related pharmacy consulting and other ancillary services to chronic care facilities and other care settings. As of December 31, 2019 , the Retail/LTC segment operated approximately 9,900 retail locations, approximately 1,100 MinuteClinic locations as well as online retail pharmacy websites, LTC pharmacies and onsite pharmacies. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , the Retail/LTC segment filled 1.4 billion prescriptions on a 30-day equivalent basis. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , the Company dispensed approximately 26.6% of the total retail pharmacy prescriptions in the United States. Retail/LTC Products and Services A typical retail store sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of high-quality, nationally advertised brand name and proprietary brand merchandise. Front store categories include over-the-counter drugs, beauty products, cosmetics and personal care products. LTC operations include distribution of prescription drugs and related consulting and ancillary services. The Company purchases merchandise from numerous manufacturers and distributors. The Company believes that competitive sources are readily available for substantially all of the products carried in its retail stores and the loss of any one supplier would not likely have a material effect on the Retail/LTC segment. The Company s MinuteClinic locations offer a variety of health care services. 5 Retail/LTC revenues by major product group are as follows: Percentage of Revenues 2019 2018 2017 Pharmacy (1) 76.7 % 76.4 % 75.0 % Front store and other (2) 23.3 % 23.6 % 25.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % _____________________________________________ (1) Pharmacy includes LTC sales and sales in pharmacies within Target Corporation stores. (2) Other represents less than 5% of the Front store and other revenue category. Pharmacy Pharmacy revenues represented approximately three-fourths of Retail/LTC segment revenues in each of 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . The Company believes that retail pharmacy operations will continue to represent a critical part of the Company s business due to industry demographics, e.g., an aging American population consuming a greater number of prescription drugs, prescription drugs being used more often as the first line of defense for managing illness, the introduction of new pharmaceutical products, and Medicare Part D growth. The Company believes the retail pharmacy business benefits from investment in both people and technology, as well as innovative collaborations with health plans, PBMs and providers. Given the nature of prescriptions, consumers want their prescriptions filled accurately by professional pharmacists using the latest tools and technology, and ready when promised. Consumers also need medication management programs and better information to help them get the most out of their health care dollars. To assist consumers with these needs, the Company has introduced integrated pharmacy health care services that provide an earlier, easier and more effective approach to engaging consumers in behaviors that can help lower costs, improve health and save lives. Front Store Front store revenues reflect the Company s strategy of innovating with new and unique products and services, using innovative personalized marketing and adjusting the mix of merchandise to match customers needs and preferences. A key component of the front store strategy is the ExtraCare card program, which is one of the largest and most successful retail loyalty programs in the United States. The ExtraCare program allows the Company to balance marketing efforts so it can reward its best customers by providing them with automatic sale prices, customized coupons, ExtraBucks rewards and other benefits. The Company also offers a subscription-based membership program, CarePass , under which members are entitled to a suite of benefits delivered over the course of the subscription period, as well as a promotional reward that can be redeemed for future goods and services. The Company continues to launch and enhance new and exclusive brands to create unmatched offerings in beauty products and deliver other unique product offerings, including a full range of high-quality CVS Health and other proprietary brand products that are only available through CVS stores. The Company currently carries approximately 7,000 CVS Health and proprietary brand products, which accounted for approximately 22% of front store revenues during 2019 . MinuteClinic As of December 31, 2019 , the Company operated approximately 1,100 MinuteClinic locations in the United States. The clinics are staffed by nurse practitioners and physician assistants who utilize nationally established guidelines to deliver a variety of health care services. Payors value these clinics because they provide convenient, high-quality, cost-effective care, in many cases offering an attractive alternative to more expensive sites of care. Visits paid for by employers, health insurers or other third parties accounted for approximately 92% of MinuteClinic s total revenues in 2019 . MinuteClinic is collaborating with the Pharmacy Services and Health Care Benefits segments to help meet the needs of CVS Caremark s client plan members and the Company s health plan members by offering programs that can improve member health and lower costs. MinuteClinic is now affiliated with more than 90 major health systems and continues to build a platform that supports primary care. Long-term Care Pharmacy Operations The Retail/LTC segment provides LTC pharmacy services through the Omnicare business. Omnicare s customers consist of skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living communities, hospitals, correctional facilities, and other health care service providers. The Company provides pharmacy consulting, including monthly patient drug therapy evaluations, to assist in compliance with state and federal regulations and provide proprietary clinical and health management programs. It also provides pharmaceutical case management services for retirees, employees and dependents who have drug benefits under corporate-sponsored health care programs. Onsite Pharmacies The Company also operates a limited number of pharmacies located at client sites, which provide certain health plan members and customers with a convenient alternative for filling their prescriptions. 6 Retail Store Development The addition of new retail locations has played, and will continue to play, a key role in the Company s continued growth and success. The Company s store development program focuses on three areas: entering new service areas, adding stores within existing service areas and relocating stores to more convenient sites. During 2019 , the Company opened approximately 100 new retail locations, relocated approximately 25 stores, converted approximately 50 stores into HealthHUB locations and closed approximately 130 locations. HealthHUBs are stores with a redesigned format that provide enhanced services, offer a care concierge and focus on health and wellness products. HealthHUBs are designed to meet consumer needs and improve the customer experience by providing care that complements physician practices and hospital systems, enabling improved health outcomes and reducing overall health care costs. The Company expects to continue HealthHUB conversions through 2021. During the last five years, the Company opened approximately 790 new and relocated locations, and acquired approximately 1,810 locations, including the pharmacies acquired from Target Corporation ( Target ) in 2015. The Company believes that continuing to assess the appropriateness of its store base and locate retail stores in more accessible locations are essential components of competing effectively in the current health care environment. As a result, the Company believes that its store development program is an integral part of its ability to meet the needs of customers and maintain its leadership position in the retail pharmacy marketplace given the changing health care landscape. Retail/LTC Information Systems The Company has continued to invest in information systems to enable it to deliver exceptional customer service, enhance safety and quality, and expand patient care services while lowering operating costs. The proprietary WeCARE Workflow supports pharmacy teams by prioritizing work to meet customer expectations, facilitating prescriber outreach, and seamlessly integrating clinical programs. This solution delivers improved efficiency and enhances the customer experience, as well as providing a framework to accommodate the evolution of pharmacy practice and the expansion of clinical programs. The Health Engagement Engine technology and proprietary clinical algorithms enable the Company to help identify opportunities for pharmacists to deliver face-to-face counseling regarding patient health and safety matters, including medication adherence issues, gaps in care and management of certain chronic health conditions. The Company s digital strategy is to empower the consumer to navigate their pharmacy experience and manage their condition through integrated online and mobile solutions that offer utility and convenience. The Company s LTC digital technology suite, Omniview , improves the efficiency of customers operations with tools that include executive dashboards, pre-admission pricing, electronic ordering of prescription refills, proof-of-delivery tracking, access to patient profiles, receipt and management of facility bills, and real-time validation of Medicare Part D coverage, among other capabilities. Retail/LTC Customers The success of the Retail/LTC segment s businesses is dependent upon the Company s ability to establish and maintain contractual relationships with pharmacy benefit managers and other payors on acceptable terms. Substantially all of the Retail/LTC segment s pharmacy revenues are derived from pharmacy benefit managers, managed care organizations, government funded health care programs, commercial employers and other third party payors. No single Retail/LTC payor accounted for 10% or more of the Company s consolidated total revenues in 2019 , 2018 or 2017 . Retail/LTC Seasonality The majority of Retail/LTC segment revenues, particularly pharmacy revenues, generally are not seasonal in nature. However, front store revenues tend to be higher during the December holiday season. In addition, both pharmacy and front store revenues are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season. Uncharacteristic or extreme weather conditions also can adversely affect consumer shopping patterns and Retail/LTC revenues, expenses and operating results. Retail/LTC Competition The retail pharmacy business is highly competitive. The Company believes that it competes principally on the basis of: (i) store location and convenience, (ii) customer service and satisfaction, (iii) product selection and variety, and (iv) price. In the areas it serves, the Company competes with other drugstore chains (e.g., Walgreens and Rite Aid), supermarkets, discount retailers (e.g., Wal-Mart), independent pharmacies, restrictive pharmacy networks, membership clubs, internet companies, and retail health clinics (including urgent care centers), as well as mail orde