Item 1. Business. Overview CVS Health Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (collectively, CVS Health, the Company, we, our or us ), is a leading diversified health solutions company, making healthier happen now. In an increasingly connected and digital world, we are meeting people wherever they are and changing health care to meet their needs. The Company has more than 9,900 retail locations, nearly 1,200 walk-in medical clinics, a leading pharmacy benefits manager with approximately 110 million plan members with expanding specialty pharmacy solutions and a dedicated senior pharmacy care business serving more than one million patients per year. The Company also serves an estimated 35 million people through traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including expanding Medicare Advantage offerings and a leading standalone Medicare Part D prescription drug plan ( PDP ). The Company believes its innovative health care model increases access to quality care, delivers better health outcomes and lowers overall health care costs. The Company has four reportable segments: Health Care Benefits, Pharmacy Services, Retail/LTC and Corporate/Other. Business Strategy The Company seeks to improve access, lower costs and enhance health outcomes by engaging with consumers when, where and how they desire. This means delivering solutions that are personalized, seamless, connected and increasingly digital. CVS Health is also shifting from transaction-based primary care to addressing holistic health physical, emotional, social, economic which will lead to higher quality of care and lower medical costs. The Company is a leader in key segments of health care today through foundational businesses and is seeking to create new sources of value by expanding into next generation primary care delivery and health services, with a goal of improving satisfaction levels for both providers and consumers. The Company believes its consumer-centric strategy will drive sustainable long-term growth and deliver value for all stakeholders. COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic and its emerging new variants continue to impact the U.S. and other countries around the world. Our strong local presence and scale in communities across the country has enabled us to play an indispensable role in the national response to COVID-19, as well as provide seamless support for our customers wherever they need us: in our CVS locations, in their homes, and virtually. The Company offered COVID-19 diagnostic testing at more than 4,800 CVS Pharmacy locations, at community-based testing sites in underserved areas and through its Return Ready SM solution as of December 31, 2021. During 2021, the Company also began selling over-the-counter ( OTC ) test kits in its retail locations and online. The Company began administering COVID-19 vaccinations in long-term care facilities and in certain of its retail pharmacies during December 2020 and February 2021, respectively, and began the administration of COVID-19 boosters and pediatric vaccines during the fourth quarter of 2021. The Company offered COVID-19 vaccinations at more than 9,800 CVS Pharmacy locations as of December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company administered more than 32 million COVID-19 tests and more than 59 million COVID-19 vaccines. The Company expects to continue to play a significant role in COVID-19 testing and vaccine administration in the future, while maintaining a strong commitment to testing and vaccine equity by optimizing site locations and targeting outreach initiatives to reach vulnerable populations. The impact of COVID-19 on the Company s businesses, operating results, cash flows and financial condition in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, as well as information regarding certain expected impacts of COVID-19 on the Company, is discussed throughout this 10-K. Health Care Benefits Segment The Health Care Benefits segment operates as one of the nation s leading diversified health care benefits providers, serving an estimated 35 million people as of December 31, 2021. The Health Care Benefits segment has the information and resources to help members, in consultation with their health care professionals, make more informed decisions about their health care. The Health Care Benefits segment offers a broad range of traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental and behavioral health plans, medical management capabilities, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement plans, PDPs, Medicaid health care management services and health information 2 technology ( HIT ) products and services. The Health Care Benefits segment also provided workers compensation administrative services through its Coventry Health Care Workers Compensation business ( Workers Compensation business ) prior to the sale of this business on July 31, 2020. The Health Care Benefits segment s customers include employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, health care providers ( providers ), governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates. Health Care Benefits Products and Services The Company refers to insurance products (where it assumes all or a majority of the risk for medical and dental care costs) as Insured and administrative services contract products (where the plan sponsor assumes all or a majority of the risk of medical and dental care costs) as ASC. Health Care Benefits products and services consist of the following: Commercial Medical : The Health Care Benefits segment offers point-of-service ( POS ), preferred provider organization ( PPO ), health maintenance organization ( HMO ) and indemnity benefit ( Indemnity ) plans. Commercial medical products also include health savings accounts ( HSAs ) and consumer-directed health plans that combine traditional POS or PPO and/or dental coverage, subject to a deductible, with an accumulating benefit account (which may be funded by the plan sponsor and/or the member in the case of HSAs). With the launch of Aetna Virtual Primary Care TM in 2021, eligible members now have access to health services remotely, paired with access to in-person visits with providers in the Company s network, including at MinuteClinic and CVS HealthHUB locations. Principal products and services are targeted specifically to large multi-site national, mid-sized and small employers, individual insureds and expatriates. The Company offers medical stop loss insurance coverage for certain employers who elect to self-insure their health benefits. Under medical stop loss insurance products, the Company assumes risk for costs associated with large individual claims and/or aggregate loss experience within an employer s plan above a pre-set annual threshold. The segment also has a portfolio of additional health products and services that complement its medical products such as dental plans, behavioral health and employee assistance products, provider network access and vision products. Government Medical : In select geographies, the Health Care Benefits segment offers Medicare Advantage plans, Medicare Supplement plans and prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries; participates in Medicaid and subsidized Children s Health Insurance Programs ( CHIP ); and participates in demonstration projects for members who are eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid ( Duals ). These Government Medical products are further described below: Medicare Advantage: Through annual contracts with the U.S. Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services ( CMS ), the Company offers HMO and PPO products for eligible individuals in certain geographic areas through the Medicare Advantage program. Members typically receive enhanced benefits over traditional fee-for-service Medicare coverage ( Original Medicare ), including reduced cost-sharing for preventive care, vision and other services. The Company offered network-based HMO and/or PPO plans in 46 states and Washington, D.C. in 2021. For certain qualifying employer groups, the Company offers Medicare PPO products nationally. When combined with the Company s PDP product, these national PPO plans form an integrated national Insured Medicare product for employers that provides medical and pharmacy benefits. Medicare PDP: The Company is a national provider of drug benefits under the Medicare Part D prescription drug program. All Medicare eligible individuals are eligible to participate in this voluntary prescription drug plan. Members typically receive coverage for certain prescription drugs, usually subject to a deductible, co-insurance and/or co-payment. The Company offered PDP plans in all 50 states and Washington, D.C. in 2021. On November 30, 2018, the Company completed the sale of the standalone PDPs of Aetna, Inc. ( Aetna ) to WellCare Health Plans, Inc. effective December 31, 2018. The Company provided administrative services to, and retained the financial results of, the divested plans through 2019. Subsequent to 2019, the Company no longer retains the financial results of the divested plans. Medicare Supplement: For certain Medicare eligible members, the Company offers supplemental coverage for certain health care costs not covered by Original Medicare. The products included in the Medicare Supplement portfolio help to cover some of the gaps in Original Medicare, and include coverage for Medicare deductibles and coinsurance amounts. The Company offered a wide selection of Medicare Supplement products in 49 states and Washington, D.C. in 2021. Medicaid and CHIP: The Company offers health care management services to individuals eligible for Medicaid and CHIP under multi-year contracts with government agencies in various states that are subject to annual appropriations. CHIP are state-subsidized insurance programs that provide benefits for families with uninsured children. The Company offered these services on an Insured or ASC basis in 16 states in 2021. Duals: The Company provides health coverage to beneficiaries who are dually eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid coverage. These members must meet certain income and resource requirements in order to qualify for 3 this coverage. The Company coordinates 100% of the care for these members and may provide them with additional services in order to manage their health care costs. The Company also has a portfolio of transformative products and services aimed at creating a holistic and integrated approach to individual health and wellness. These products and services complement the Commercial Medical and Government Medical products and aim to provide innovative solutions, create integrated experience offerings and enable enhanced care delivery to customers. Health Care Benefits Provider Networks The Company contracts with physicians, hospitals and other providers for services they provide to the Company s members. The Company uses a variety of techniques designed to help encourage appropriate utilization of medical services ( utilization ) and maintain affordability of quality coverage. In addition to contracts with providers for negotiated rates of reimbursement, these techniques include creating risk sharing arrangements that align economic incentives with providers, the development and implementation of guidelines for the appropriate utilization and the provision of data to providers to enable them to improve health care quality. At December 31, 2021, the Company s underlying nationwide provider network had approximately 1.5 million participating providers. Other providers in the Company s provider networks also include laboratory, imaging, urgent care and other freestanding health facilities. Health Care Benefits Quality Assessment CMS uses a 5-star rating system to monitor Medicare health care and drug plans and ensure that they meet CMS s quality standards. CMS uses this rating system to provide Medicare beneficiaries with a tool that they can use to compare the overall quality of care and level of customer service of companies that provide Medicare health care and drug plans. The rating system considers a variety of measures adopted by CMS, including quality of preventative services, chronic illness management and overall customer satisfaction. See Health Care Benefits Pricing below in this Item 1 for further discussion of star ratings. The Company seeks Health Plan accreditation for Aetna HMO plans from the National Committee for Quality Assurance ( NCQA ), a private, not-for-profit organization that evaluates, accredits and certifies a wide range of health care organizations. Health care plans seeking accreditation must pass a rigorous, comprehensive review and must annually report on their performance. Aetna Life Insurance Company ( ALIC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, has received nationwide NCQA PPO Health Plan accreditation. As of December 31, 2021, all of the Company s Commercial HMO and all of ALIC s PPO members who were eligible participated in HMOs or PPOs that are accredited by the NCQA. The Company s provider selection and credentialing/re-credentialing policies and procedures are consistent with NCQA and URAC, a health care accrediting organization that establishes quality standards for the health care industry, as well as state and federal, requirements. In addition, the Company is certified under the NCQA Credentials Verification Organization ( CVO ) certification program for all certification options and has URAC CVO accreditation. Quality assessment programs for contracted providers who participate in the Company s networks begin with the initial review of health care practitioners. Practitioners licenses and education are verified, and their work history is collected by the Company or in some cases by the practitioner s affiliated group or organization. The Company generally requires participating hospitals to be certified by CMS or accredited by The Joint Commission, the American Osteopathic Association, or Det Norske Veritas Healthcare. The Company also offers quality and outcome measurement programs, quality improvement programs, and health care data analysis systems to providers and purchasers of health care services. Health Care Benefits Information Systems The Health Care Benefits segment currently operates and supports an end-to-end suite of information technology platforms to support member engagement, enrollment, health benefit administration, care management, service operations, financial reporting and analytics. The multiple platforms are supported by an integration layer to facilitate the transfer of real-time data. There is continued focus and investment in enterprise data platforms, cloud capabilities, digital products to offer innovative solutions and a seamless experience to the Company s members through mobile and web channels. The Company is making concerted investments in emerging technology capabilities such as voice, artificial intelligence and robotics to further automate, reduce cost and improve the experience for all of its constituents. The Health Care Benefits segment is utilizing the 4 full breadth of the Company s assets to build enterprise technology that will help guide our members through their health care journey, provide them a high level of service, enable healthier outcomes and encourage them to take next best actions to lead healthier lives. Health Care Benefits Customers Medical membership is dispersed throughout the United States, and the Company also serves medical members in certain countries outside the United States. The Company offers a broad range of traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, many of which are available nationwide. Depending on the product, the Company markets to a range of customers including employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, providers, governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates. For additional information on medical membership, see Health Care Benefits Segment in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (the MD A ) included in Item 7 of this 10-K. The Company markets both Commercial Insured and ASC products and services primarily to employers that sponsor the Company s products for the benefit of their employees and their employees dependents. Frequently, larger employers offer employees a choice among coverage options, from which the employee makes his or her selection during a designated annual open enrollment period. Typically, employers pay all of the monthly premiums to the Company and, through payroll deductions, obtain reimbursement from employees for a percentage of the premiums that is determined by each employer. Some Health Care Benefits products are sold directly to employees of employer groups on a fully employee-funded basis. In some cases, the Company bills the covered individual directly. In addition, effective January 2022, the Company entered the individual public health insurance exchanges ( Public Exchanges ) in eight states through which it sells Insured plans directly to individual consumers. The Company offers Insured Medicare coverage on an individual basis as well as through employer groups to their retirees. Medicaid and CHIP members are enrolled on an individual basis. The Company also offers Insured health care coverage to members who are dually-eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. Health Care Benefits products are sold through: the Company s sales personnel; independent brokers, agents and consultants who assist in the production and servicing of business; as well as private health insurance exchanges ( Private Exchanges ) and Public Exchanges (together with Private Exchanges, Insurance Exchanges ). For large employers or other entities that sponsor the Company s products ( plan sponsors ), independent consultants and brokers are frequently involved in employer health plan selection decisions and sales. In some instances, the Company may pay commissions, fees and other amounts to brokers, agents, consultants and sales representatives who place business with the Company. In certain cases, the customer pays the broker for services rendered, and the Company may facilitate that arrangement by collecting the funds from the customer and transmitting them to the broker. The Company supports marketing and sales efforts with an advertising program that may include television, radio, billboards, print media and social media, supplemented by market research and direct marketing efforts. The U.S. federal government is a significant customer of the Health Care Benefits segment through contracts with CMS for coverage of Medicare-eligible individuals and federal employee-related benefit programs. Other than the contracts with CMS, the Health Care Benefits segment is not dependent upon a single customer or a few customers the loss of which would have a significant effect on the earnings of the segment. The loss of business from any one, or a few, independent brokers or agents would not have a material adverse effect on the earnings of the Health Care Benefits segment. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, Health Care Benefits segment revenues from the federal government accounted for 14%, 13% and 13%, respectively, of the Company s consolidated total revenues. Contracts with CMS for coverage of Medicare-eligible individuals in the Health Care Benefits segment accounted for approximately 79%, 78% and 76%, respectively, of the Company s consolidated revenues from the federal government in 2021, 2020 and 2019. Health Care Benefits Pricing For Commercial Insured plans, contracts containing the pricing and other terms of the relationship are generally established in advance of the policy period and typically have a duration of one year. Fees under ASC plans are generally fixed for a period of one year. Generally, a fixed premium rate is determined at the beginning of the policy period for Commercial Insured plans. The Company typically cannot recover unanticipated increases in health care and other benefit costs in the current policy period; however, it may consider prior experience for a product in the aggregate or for a specific customer, among other factors, in 5 determining premium rates for future policy periods. Where required by state laws, premium rates are filed and approved by state regulators prior to contract inception. Future operating results could be adversely affected if the premium rates requested are not approved or are adjusted downward or their approval is delayed by state or federal regulators. The Company has Medicare Advantage and PDP contracts with CMS to provide HMO, PPO and prescription drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries in certain geographic areas. Under these annual contracts, CMS pays the Company a fixed per member (or capitation ) payment and/or a portion of the premium, both of which are based on membership and adjusted for demographic and health risk factors. CMS also considers inflation, changes in utilization patterns and average per capita fee-for-service Medicare costs in the calculation of the fixed capitation payment or premium. PDP contracts also provide a risk-sharing arrangement with CMS to limit the Company s exposure to unfavorable expenses or benefit from favorable expenses. Amounts payable to the Company under the Medicare arrangements are subject to annual revision by CMS, and the Company elects to participate in each Medicare service area or region on an annual basis. Premiums paid to the Company for Medicare products are subject to federal government reviews and audits, which can result, and have resulted, in retroactive and prospective premium adjustments and refunds to the government and/or members. In addition to payments received from CMS, some Medicare Advantage products and all PDP products require a supplemental premium to be paid by the member or sponsoring employer. In some cases these supplemental premiums are adjusted based on the member s income and asset levels. Compared to Commercial Medical products, Medicare contracts generate higher per member per month revenues and higher health care and other benefit costs. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the ACA ) ties a portion of each Medicare Advantage plan s reimbursement to the plan s star ratings. Plans must have a star rating of four or higher (out of five) to qualify for bonus payments. CMS released the Company s 2022 star ratings in October 2021. The Company s 2022 star ratings will be used to determine which of the Company s Medicare Advantage plans have ratings of four stars or higher and qualify for bonus payments in 2023. Based on the Company s membership at December 31, 2021, 87% of the Company s Medicare Advantage members were in plans with 2022 star ratings of at least 4.0 stars, compared to 83% of the Company s Medicare Advantage members being in plans with 2021 star ratings of at least 4.0 stars based on the Company s membership at December 31, 2020. Rates for Medicare Supplement products are regulated at the state level and vary by state and plan. Under Insured Medicaid contracts, state government agencies pay the Company fixed monthly rates per member that vary by state, line of business and demographics; and the Company arranges, pays for and manages the health care services provided to Medicaid beneficiaries. These rates are subject to change by each state, and, in some instances, provide for adjustment for health risk factors. CMS requires these rates to be actuarially sound. The Company also receives fees from customers where it provides services under ASC Medicaid contracts. ASC Medicaid contracts generally are for periods of more than one year, and certain of them contain performance incentives and limited financial risk sharing with respect to certain medical, financial and operational metrics. Under these arrangements, performance is evaluated annually, with associated financial incentive opportunities, and financial risk share obligations are typically limited to a percentage of the fees otherwise payable to the Company. Payments to the Company under Medicaid contracts are subject to the annual appropriation process in the applicable state. Under Duals contracts, the rate setting process is generally established by CMS in partnership with the state government agency participating in the demonstration project. Both CMS and the state government agency may seek premium and other refunds under certain circumstances, including if the Company fails to comply with CMS regulations or other contractual requirements. The Company offers HMO and consumer-directed medical and dental plans to federal employees under the Federal Employees Health Benefits ( FEHB ) Program and the Federal Employees Dental and Vision Insurance Program. Premium rates and fees for those plans are subject to federal government review and audit, which can result, and have resulted, in retroactive and prospective premium and fee adjustments and refunds to the government and/or members. Beginning in 2014, the ACA imposed significant new industry-wide fees, assessments and taxes, including an annual levy known as the health insurer fee (the HIF ). The HIF applied for 2020 and was temporarily suspended for 2019. In December 2019, the HIF was repealed for calendar years after 2020. For additional information on the ACA fees, assessments and taxes, see Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies included in Item 8 of this 10-K. The Company s goal is to collect premiums and fees where possible, or solve for, all of the ACA-related fees, assessments and taxes. 6 Health Care Benefits Seasonality The Health Care Benefits segment s quarterly operating income progression is also impacted by (i) the seasonality of benefit costs which generally increase during the year as Insured members progress through their annual deductibles and out-of-pocket expense limits and (ii) the seasonality of operating expenses, which are generally the highest during the fourth quarter due primarily to spending to support readiness for the start of the upcoming plan year and marketing associated with Medicare annual enrollment. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the customary quarterly operating income progression was impacted by COVID-19. While overall medical costs in the first quarter were generally consistent with historical baseline levels in the aggregate, the segment experienced increased COVID-19 testing and treatment costs and lower Medicare risk-adjusted revenue. During the second quarter, COVID-19 testing and treatment costs persisted, however at levels significantly lower than those observed during the first quarter. Beginning in the third quarter, medical costs once again increased primarily driven by the spread of the emerging new variants of COVID-19, which resulted in increased testing and treatment costs that continued throughout the fourth quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the customary quarterly operating income progression was also impacted by COVID-19. Beginning in mid-March, the health care system experienced a significant reduction in utilization that is discretionary and the cancellation of elective medical procedures. Utilization remained below historical levels through April, began to recover in May and June and reached more normal levels in the third and fourth quarters, with select geographies impacted by COVID-19 waves. The impact of the deferral of non-essential care was partially offset by COVID-19 testing and treatment costs, as well as planned COVID-19 related investments. Health Care Benefits Competition The health care benefits industry is highly competitive, primarily due to a large number of for-profit and not-for-profit competitors, competitors marketing and pricing and a proliferation of competing products, including new products that are continually being introduced into the marketplace. New entrants into the marketplace, as well as consolidation within the industry, have contributed to and are expected to intensify the competitive environment. In addition, the rapid pace of change as the industry evolves towards a consumer-focused retail marketplace, including Insurance Exchanges, and the increased use of technology to interact with members, providers and customers, increase the risks the Company currently faces from new entrants and disruptive actions by existing competitors compared to prior periods. The Company believes that the significant factors that distinguish competing health plans include the perceived overall quality (including accreditation status), quality of service, comprehensiveness of coverage, cost (including premium rates, provider discounts and member out-of-pocket costs), product design, financial stability and ratings, breadth and quality of provider networks, ability to offer different provider network options, providers available in such networks, and quality of member support and care management programs. The Company believes that it is competitive on each of these factors. The Company s ability to increase the number of persons covered by its health plans or to increase Health Care Benefits segment revenues is affected by its ability to differentiate itself from its competitors on these factors. Competition may also affect the availability of services from providers, including primary care physicians, specialists and hospitals. Insured products compete with local and regional health care benefits plans, health care benefits and other plans sponsored by other large commercial health care benefit insurance companies, health system owned health plans, new entrants into the marketplace and numerous for-p