Item 1. Business GENERAL Dominion Energy , headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation s largest producers and distributors of energy. Dominion Energy is committed to safely delivering sustainable, reliable and affordable energy and achieving net zero carbon and methane emissions by 2050. Dominion Energy s strategy is to be a leading sustainable provider of electricity, natural gas and related services to customers primarily in the eastern and Rocky Mountain regions of the U.S. As of December 31, 2021, Dominion Energy s portfolio of assets includes approximately 30.2 GW of electric generating capacity, 10,700 miles of electric transmission lines, 78,000 miles of electric distribution lines and 95,700 miles of gas distribution mains and related service facilities, which are supported by 6,000 miles of gas transmission, gathering and storage pipeline. As of December 31, 2021, Dominion Energy operates in 13 states and serves approximately 7 million customers. Dominion Energy continues to focus on expanding and improving its regulated and long-term contracted electric and natural gas utility businesses while transitioning to a cleaner energy future. Its growth capital expenditure plan for 2022 through 2026 includes a focus on upgrading the electric system in Virginia through investments in additional renewable generation facilities, strategic undergrounding and energy conservation programs. Renewable generation facilities are expected to include significant investments in utility-scale solar and offshore wind projects. In addition, Dominion Energy has either received or applied for license extensions for its regulated nuclear power stations in Virginia. Other drivers for the growth capital plan include renewable natural gas initiatives and the replacement and modernization of gas distribution pipeline. Dominion Energy also plans to continue upgrading its gas and electric transmission and distribution networks while also meeting environmental requirements and standards set by various regulatory bodies. Dominion Energy has continued its transition to a more state-regulated earnings mix as evidenced by its capital investments in regulated infrastructure, the SCANA Combination, the completed sale of substantially all of its gas transmission and storage operations and the divestiture of interests in certain nonregulated generating facilities and natural gas gathering and processing investments. Dominion Energy expects approximately 90% of earnings from its primary operating segments to come from state-regulated electric and natural gas utility businesses. Dominion Energy s nonregulated operations consist of primarily long-term contracted electric generation operations and its investment in Cove Point. Dominion Energy s operations are conducted through various subsidiaries, including SCANA and Virginia Power. SCANA, which operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina and in the distribution of natural gas in North Carolina and South Carolina. DESC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SCANA, is consolidated by Dominion Energy and is an SEC registrant. However, its Form 10-K is filed separately and is not combined herein. Virginia Power , headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy and a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name Dominion Energy Virginia and primarily serves retail customers. In North Carolina, it conducts business under the name Dominion Energy North Carolina and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells and transmits electricity at wholesale prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power s stock is owned by Dominion Energy. Amounts and information disclosed for Dominion Energy are inclusive of Virginia Power, where applicable. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANIES The Companies file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov. The Companies make their SEC filings, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, available, free of charge, through Dominion Energy s website, http://www.dominionenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. We also make available on the Investors page of our website additional information which may be important to investors, such as investor presentations, earnings release kits and other materials and presentations. Information contained on Dominion Energy s website, including but not limited to reports mentioned in Environmental Strategy , is not incorporated by reference in this report. 10 A CQUISITIONS AND D ISPOSITIONS The following acquisitions and divestitures within the last three years are considered significant to the Companies. Gas Transmission and Storage Operations Sales to BHE and Southwest Gas In November 2020, Dominion Energy completed the GT S Transaction with BHE for approximately $2.7 billion in cash proceeds and the assumption by BHE of approximately $5.3 billion of related long-term debt. In December 2021, Dominion Energy completed the sale of the Q-Pipe Group to Southwest Gas for approximately $1.5 billion in cash proceeds and the assumption by Southwest Gas of $430 million of related long-term debt. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Acquisition of Interest in Atlantic Coast Pipeline and Pivotal LNG, Inc. In March 2020, Dominion Energy completed the acquisition from Southern of its 5% membership interest in Atlantic Coast Pipeline and its 100% ownership interest in Pivotal LNG, Inc., for $184 million in aggregate, plus certain purchase price adjustments. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information, including the cancellation of the Atlantic Coast Pipeline Project. Pivotal LNG, Inc. was included within the GT S Transaction and sold to BHE in November 2020. Purchase of Dominion Energy Midstream Units In January 2019, Dominion Energy acquired all outstanding partnership interests of Dominion Energy Midstream not owned by Dominion Energy through the issuance of 22.5 million shares of Dominion Energy common stock. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Dominion Energy Midstream was included within the GT S Transaction and sold to BHE in November 2020. Sale of Interest in Cove Point In December 2019, Dominion Energy completed the sale of a 25% noncontrolling interest in Cove Point to Brookfield in exchange for cash consideration of $2.1 billion, subject to working capital adjustments. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In addition, a 25% controlling interest in Cove Point was included within the GT S Transaction and sold to BHE in November 2020. SCANA In January 2019, Dominion Energy and SCANA completed a stock-for-stock merger valued at $13.4 billion, inclusive of SCANA s outstanding debt, which totaled $6.9 billion at closing. SCANA operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Hope In February 2022, Dominion Energy entered into an agreement to sell 100% of the equity interests in Hope to Ullico for $690 million in cash consideration, subject to customary closing adjustments. This transaction is expected to close by the end of 2022, contingent on clearance or approval under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and from the West Virginia Commission, and other customary closing and regulatory conditions. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Electric Generation Facilities Acquisition of Virginia Power Solar Projects In 2019 through 2021, Virginia Power entered into and completed the acquisitions of several primarily early-stage solar development projects in Virginia, including both non-jurisdictional facilities and those expected to be recovered under Rider CE. In 2021, Virginia Power entered into and completed the acquisitions of various solar development projects in Virginia. These projects are expected to cost a total of approximately $1.3 billion once constructed, including initial acquisition costs, and generate approximately 697 MW combined. 11 In 2020, Virginia Power entered into and completed the acquisition of various solar development project s in Virginia. Th ese project s are expected to cost a total of approximately $ 56 0 million once constructed, including initial acquisition costs, and generate approximately 282 MW combined . In 2019, Virginia Power entered into agreements to acquire various solar development projects in Virginia, with the acquisitions completed in 2019 and 2020. These projects are expected to cost a total of approximately $760 million once constructed, including initial acquisition costs, and generate approximately 448 MW combined. See Notes 10 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Acquisition of Nonregulated Solar Projects In 2020, Dominion Energy entered into agreements and completed the acquisition of various nonregulated solar projects in Ohio, South Carolina and Virginia with one project expected to close in 2022. These projects are expected to cost a total of approximately $730 million once constructed, including the initial acquisition cost, and generate approximately 398 MW combined. In 2019, Dominion Energy completed the acquisition of various nonregulated solar projects in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia. These projects cost $415 million to construct, including the initial acquisition cost, and generate approximately 242 MW combined. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Sale of Non-Wholly-Owned Nonregulated Solar Facilities In 2021, Dominion Energy completed the sale of SBL Holdco, which held Dominion Energy s remaining 67% controlling interest in certain nonregulated solar projects, to Terra Nova Renewable Partners for cash proceeds of $209 million and the assumption by Terra Nova Renewable Partners of $265 million of related long-term debt. In 2021, Dominion Energy completed the sale of its remaining 50% controlling interest in Four Brothers and Three Cedars to Clearway for cash proceeds of $331 million. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Equity Method Investments Acquisition of Interest in Wrangler In December 2019, Dominion Energy acquired a 20% noncontrolling interest in Wrangler along with $301 million in cash as part of its initial contribution of certain retail energy marketing operations. In November 2020, Dominion Energy completed the second contribution consisting of certain retail energy natural gas contracts, receiving $74 million in cash and maintaining its 20% noncontrolling interest in Wrangler. In December 2021, Dominion Energy completed the final contribution consisting of its remaining nonregulated natural gas retail energy marketing operations and receiving $127 million in cash. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Expected Acquisition of Interest in Dominion Privatization In February 2022, Dominion Energy entered into an agreement to form Dominion Privatization, a partnership with Patriot. Dominion Energy expects to contribute its existing privatization operations, excluding contracts held by DESC, in South Carolina, Texas, Pennsylvania and Virginia for cash proceeds totaling $168 million, subject to customary closing adjustments, and a 50% noncontrolling ownership interest in Dominion Privatization following closing of the contributions expected to occur by the end of 2022, contingent on clearance or approval under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and other customary closing and regulatory conditions. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. HUMAN CAPITAL One of Dominion Energy's greatest strengths is its employees and Dominion Energy is committed to providing them with a safe, diverse and inclusive workplace. The ability to attract, develop and retain a diverse workforce is integral to the long-term success of Dominion Energy. At December 31, 2021, Dominion Energy had approximately 17,100 full-time employees, of which approximately 4,700 are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 6,000 full-time employees at Virginia Power, of which approximately 2,500 are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Safety is the highest priority of Dominion Energy s five core values with the fundamental goal to send every employee home safe and sound every day. In 2021, Dominion Energy experienced an OSHA Recordable Rate of 0.46 compared to 0.41 in 2020. These rates reflect Dominion Energy s dedication to safety when compared to a 2020 BLS Industry Average OSHA Recordable Rate of 1.5. As 12 evidence of Dominion Energy s commitment to safety, annual incentive plans for all employees, except as restricted by any collective bargaining agreements, include a safety performance measure. Furthermore, Dominion Energy has been proactive in protecting its workforce during the global COVID-19 pandemic by establishing safety protocols, including requirements to wear face coverings and maintain physical distancing as well as new procedures for enhanced cleaning and temperature screening , adapting its approach as the pandemic has evolved . Dominion Energy also facilitated telecommuting and hybrid work options for many employees and expanded paid time off and other benefits to help employees cope with disruptions caused by the pandemic. Dominion Energy works to recruit, retain and develop the careers of talented individuals who reflect the communities it serves. To cultivate this diversified workforce, Dominion Energy focuses on workforce diversity and inclusion while fostering an environment where employees can utilize their unique strengths, skills, personalities and life experiences. In October 2020, Dominion Energy announced its commitment to increase workforce diversity by 1% annually until it achieves at least 40% diverse representation. During 2021, Dominion Energy increased diverse representation within its workforce from 34.6% to 35.4%. For the purposes of measuring diversity, Dominion Energy includes non-minority female, minority male, minority female and undeclared female. In 2021 and 2020, the percentage of new hires that are diverse was 56% and 50%, respectively. Dominion Energy sponsors eight employee resource groups to support and reinforce its culture of inclusiveness by enabling employees with shared interests and backgrounds to work together to create community, provide networking opportunities and encourage professional development. The employee resource groups are aligned to support various forms of diversity and inclusion, including gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, race, veteran status, age, ability and cultural heritage. To further advance these initiatives, annual incentive plans for all employees, except as restricted by any collective bargaining agreements, include a performance measure for participation in diversity and inclusion training. Dominion Energy attracts and retains its employees by offering competitive compensation and benefits packages, including healthcare, retirement, paid time off, parental leave and other benefits. Dominion Energy also offers a variety of training and development opportunities for all employees with the goal to provide a consistent and progressive approach to training that engages the workforce and fosters a culture of learning. To this end, Dominion Energy offers continuous learning opportunities including tuition assistance programs, professional development resources, access to a career center and a self-guided training program for independent learning as well as leadership development programs. These resources and programs are designed not only to engage and retain talented employees but also to allow Dominion Energy to meet the needs of its customers in an ever-changing industry with a skilled workforce. CYBERSECURITY In an effort to reduce the likelihood and severity of cyber intrusions, the Companies have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and systems, including oversight by the Board of Directors as well as the finance and risk oversight board committee. The Companies are subject to mandatory cybersecurity regulatory requirements, interface regularly with a wide range of external organizations and participate in classified briefings to maintain an awareness of current cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities. The Companies current security posture and regulatory compliance efforts are intended to address the evolving and changing cyber threats. See