Item 1. Business General Dominion Energy , headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1983, is one of the nation s largest producers and transporters of energy. Dominion Energy s strategy is to be a leading sustainable provider of electricity, natural gas and related services to customers primarily in the eastern and Rocky Mountain regions of the U.S. As of December 31, 2019, Dominion Energy s portfolio of assets includes approximately 30,700 MW of electric generating capacity, 10,400 miles of electric transmission lines, 85,000 miles of electric distribution lines, 14,600 miles of natural gas transmission, gathering and storage pipelines and 103,400 miles of gas distribution pipeline, exclusive of service lines. As of December 31, 2019, Dominion Energy serves more than 7 million utility and retail energy customers and operates one of the nation s largest underground natural gas storage systems, with approximately 1 trillion cubic feet of storage capacity. In January 2019, Dominion Energy completed the SCANA Combination in a stock-for-stock merger valued at $13.4 billion. SCANA, which operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina and in the distribution of natural gas in North Carolina and South Carolina. DESC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SCANA, is consolidated by Dominion Energy and remains an SEC registrant. However, its Form 10-K is filed separately and is not combined herein. Dominion Energy continues to focus on expanding and improving its regulated and long-term contracted electric and natural gas businesses while transitioning to a cleaner energy future. The $26 billion growth capital plan for 2019 through 2023 includes a focus on upgrading the electric system in Virginia through investments in additional renewable generation facilities, strategic undergrounding and energy conservation programs. Renewable generation facilities are expected to include investments in utility-scale solar and offshore wind projects. In addition, Dominion Energy is currently seeking, or intends to seek, license extensions for its regulated nuclear power stations in Virginia. Other drivers for the growth capital expenditure plan include agriculture-waste-to-energy initiatives, the replacement of gas distribution pipeline, the construction of infrastructure to handle the increase in natural gas production from the Marcellus and Utica Shale formations, including investing in Atlantic Coast Pipeline which is focused on constructing an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline running from West Virginia through Virginia to North Carolina, to increase natural gas supplies in the region. Dominion Energy also plans to continue upgrading its gas and electric transmission and distribution networks while also meeting environmental requirements and standards set by various regulatory bodies. Over the past decade, Dominion Energy has transitioned to a more regulated, less volatile earnings mix as evidenced by its capital investments in regulated infrastructure, including the SCANA Combination and Dominion Energy Questar Combination, and in infrastructure with output sold under long-term purchase agreements, as well as the divestiture of interests in certain merchant generating facilities and natural gas gathering and processing investments. Dominion Energy expects approximately 95% of earnings from its primary operating segments to come from regulated and long-term contracted businesses. Dominion Energy s nonregulated operations include merchant generation and natural gas retail energy marketing operations. Dominion Energy s operations are conducted through various subsidiaries, including Virginia Power and Dominion Energy Gas. Virginia Power , headquartered in Richmond, Virginia and incorporated in Virginia in 1909 as a Virginia public service corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy and a regulated public utility that generates, transmits and distributes electricity for sale in Virginia and North Carolina. In Virginia, Virginia Power conducts business under the name Dominion Energy Virginia and primarily serves retail customers. In North Carolina, it conducts business under the name Dominion Energy North Carolina and serves retail customers located in the northeastern region of the state, excluding certain municipalities. In addition, Virginia Power sells and transmits electricity at wholesale prices to rural electric cooperatives, municipalities and into wholesale electricity markets. All of Virginia Power s stock is owned by Dominion Energy. Dominion Energy Gas, a limited liability company formed in September 2013, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy and a holding company. Following the Dominion Energy Gas Restructuring, Dominion Energy Gas serves as the intermediate parent company for Dominion Energy s FERC-regulated interstate natural gas transmission pipeline and underground storage systems in the eastern and Rocky Mountain regions of the U.S., as well as for the Cove Point LNG Facility. Dominion Energy Gas principal operating subsidiaries include DETI, DECG, Dominion Energy Questar Pipeline and a controlling 75% interest in Cove Point. In addition, Dominion Energy Gas holds a 50% noncontrolling partnership interest in Iroquois, a FERC-regulated interstate natural gas pipeline. All of Dominion Energy Gas membership interests are owned by Dominion Energy. Amounts and information disclosed for Dominion Energy are inclusive of Virginia Power and/or Dominion Energy Gas, where applicable. Employees At December 31, 2019, Dominion Energy had approximately 19,100 full-time employees, of which approximately 5,400 are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 6,000 full-time employees at Virginia Power, of which approximately 2,500 are subject to collective bargaining agreements and approximately 1,400 full-time employees at Dominion Energy Gas, of which approximately 700 are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Where You Can Find More Information About The Companies The Companies file their annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Their SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC s website at http://www.sec.gov. The Companies make their SEC filings available, free of charge, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly 8 reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, through Dominion Energy s website, http://www.dominionenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the SEC. Information contained on Dominion Energy s website, including but not limited to reports mentioned in Environmental Strategy , is not incorporated by reference in this report. Acquisitions and Dispositions The following are significant acquisitions and divestitures by the Companies during the last five years. Pending Acquisition of Interest in Atlantic Coast Pipeline and Pivotal LNG, Inc. In February 2020, Dominion Energy entered into agreements with Southern to acquire its 5% membership interest in Atlantic Coast Pipeline and its 100% ownership interest in Pivotal LNG, Inc., for approximately $175 million in aggregate, plus certain purchase price adjustments. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Acquisition of SCANA In January 2019, Dominion Energy and SCANA completed a stock-for-stock merger valued at $13.4 billion, inclusive of SCANA s outstanding debt, which totaled $6.9 billion at closing. SCANA operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Purchase of Dominion Energy Midstream Units In January 2019, Dominion Energy acquired all outstanding partnership interests of Dominion Energy Midstream not owned by Dominion Energy through the issuance of 22.5 million shares of Dominion Energy common stock. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Dominion Energy Gas Restructuring In November 2019, Dominion Energy Gas finalized a restructuring whereby Dominion Energy s wholly-owned subsidiaries, DCP and DMLPHCII, were contributed to Dominion Energy Gas. In addition, Dominion Energy Gas wholly-owned subsidiaries, East Ohio and DGP, were distributed to Dominion Energy. This restructuring was accounted for by Dominion Energy Gas as a reorganization of entities under common control. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Sale of Interest in Cove Point In December 2019, Dominion Energy completed the sale of a 25% noncontrolling interest in Cove Point to Brookfield in exchange for cash consideration of $2.1 billion, subject to working capital adjustments. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Acquisition of Interest in Wrangler In December 2019, Dominion Energy acquired a 20% noncontrolling interest in Wrangler, a partnership with Interstate Gas Supply, Inc., along with $301 million in cash as part of its initial contribution of certain retail energy marketing operations. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Sale of Certain Merchant Generation Facilities In December 2018, Dominion Energy completed the sale of Fairless and Manchester for total consideration of $1.2 billion, subject to customary closing adjustments. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Sale of Interest in Blue Racer In December 2018, Dominion Energy completed the sale of its 50% limited partner interest in Blue Racer for total consideration of $1.2 billion. In addition, the purchaser agreed to pay additional consideration contingent upon the achievement of certain financial performance milestones of Blue Racer from 2019 through 2021. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Acquisition of Dominion Energy Questar In September 2016, Dominion Energy completed the Dominion Energy Questar Combination for total consideration of $4.4 billion and Dominion Energy Questar became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dominion Energy. Acquisition of Wholly-Owned Merchant Solar Projects In 2019, Dominion Energy completed the acquisition of various merchant solar projects in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia. These projects are expected to cost a total of approximately $425 million once constructed, including the initial acquisition cost, and generate approximately 241 MW combined. Throughout 2017, Dominion Energy completed the acquisition of various merchant solar projects in California, North Carolina and Virginia for $356 million. The projects cost $541 million to construct, including the initial acquisition cost, and generate 259 MW. Throughout 2016, Dominion Energy completed the acquisition of various merchant solar projects in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia for $32 million. The projects cost $421 million to construct, including the initial acquisition cost, and generate 221 MW. Throughout 2015, Dominion Energy completed the acquisition of various merchant solar projects in California and Virginia for $381 million. The projects cost $588 million to construct, including the initial acquisition cost, and generate 182 MW. See Note 3 and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Acquisition of Virginia Power Solar Projects In 2019, Virginia Power entered into agreements to acquire various solar development projects in Virginia. Four of these projects closed in 2019 and the fifth closed in January 2020 with a total expected cost of approximately $765 million once constructed, including initial acquisition costs, and will generate approximately 448 MW combined. In 2018, Virginia Power entered into agreements to acquire various solar development projects in North Carolina and Virginia. These projects closed in 2019 with a total cost of $297 million, including initial acquisition costs, and generate 175 MW combined. In 2017, Virginia Power entered into agreements to acquire various solar development projects in North Carolina. The projects closed in 2018 and 2019 with a total cost of $282 million, including initial acquisition costs, and generate 155 MW combined. 9 See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Sale of Certain Retail Energy Marketing Assets In October 2017, Dominion Energy entered into an agreement to sell certain assets associated with its nonregulated retail energy marketing operations for total consideration of $143 million, subject to customary approvals and certain adjustments. In December 2017, the first phase of the agreement closed for $79 million. In October 2018, the second phase of the agreement closed for $63 million. Pursuant to the agreement, Dominion Energy entered into a commission agreement with the buyer upon the first closing in December 2017, under which the buyer will pay a commission in connection with the right to use Dominion Energy s brand in marketing materials and other services over a ten-year term. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Assignment of Tower Rental Portfolio Virginia Power rents space on certain of its electric transmission towers to various wireless carriers for communications antennas and other equipment. In March 2017, Virginia Power sold its rental portfolio to Vertical Bridge Towers II, LLC for $91 million in cash. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Acquisition of Non-Wholly-Owned Merchant Solar Projects In 2015, Dominion Energy acquired 50% of the units in Four Brothers and Three Cedars from SunEdison for $107 million. In November 2016, NRG acquired the 50% of units in Four Brothers and Three Cedars previously held by SunEdison. In August 2018, NRG s ownership in Four Brothers and Three Cedars was transferred to GIP. The facilities began commercial operations in the third quarter of 2016, with generating capacity of 530 MW, at a cost of $1.1 billion. Sale of Interest in Merchant Solar Projects In September 2015, Dominion Energy signed an agreement to sell a noncontrolling interest (consisting of 33% of the equity interests) in all of its then wholly-owned merchant solar projects, 24 solar projects totaling 425 MW, to SunEdison. In December 2015, the sale of interest in 15 of the solar projects closed for $184 million with the sale of interest in the remaining projects completed in January 2016 for $117 million. Upon closing, SunEdison sold its interest in these projects to Terra Nova Renewable Partners. Dominion Energy Midstream Acquisition of Interest in Iroquois In September 2015, Dominion Energy Midstream acquired from NG and NJNR a 25.93% noncontrolling partnership interest in Iroquois. The investment was recorded at $216 million based on the value of Dominion Energy Midstream s common units at closing. The common units issued to NG and NJNR have been reflected as noncontrolling interest in Dominion Energy and Dominion Energy Gas Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquisition of DECG In January 2015, Dominion Energy completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity interests of DECG from SCANA for $497 million in cash, as adjusted for working capital. Assignments of Shale Development Rights In December 2013, Dominion Energy Gas closed on agreements with natural gas producers to convey over time approximately 100,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath several natural gas storage fields. The agreements provided for payments to Dominion Energy Gas, subject to customary adjustments, of up to approximately $200 million over a period of nine years, and an overriding royalty interest in gas produced from that acreage. In March 2015, Dominion Energy Gas and a natural gas producer closed on an amendment to a December 2013 agreement, which included the immediate conveyance of approximately 9,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights and a two-year extension of the term of the original agreement. The conveyance of development rights resulted in the recognition of $43 million of previously deferred revenue. In April 2016, Dominion Energy Gas and the natural gas producer closed on an amendment to the agreement, which included the immediate conveyance of a 32% partial interest in the remaining approximately 70,000 acres. This conveyance resulted in the recognition of the remaining $35 million of previously deferred revenue. In August 2017, Dominion Energy Gas and a natural gas producer signed an amendment to the agreement, which included the finalization of contractual matters on previous conveyances, the conveyance of Dominion Energy Gas remaining 68% interest in approximately 70,000 acres and the elimination of Dominion Energy Gas overriding royalty interest in gas produced from all acreage. As a result of this amendment, Dominion Energy Gas received total consideration of $130 million, with $65 million received in November 2017 and $65 million received in September 2018 in connection with the final conveyance. In March 2015, Dominion Energy Gas conveyed to a natural gas producer approximately 11,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath one of its natural gas storage fields and received proceeds of $27 million and an overriding royalty interest in gas produced from the acreage. In September 2015, Dominion Energy Gas closed on an agreement with a natural gas producer to convey approximately 16,000 acres of Utica and Point Pleasant Shale development rights underneath one of its natural gas storage fields. The agreement provided for a payment to Dominion Energy Gas, subject to customary adjustments, of $52 million and an overriding royalty interest in gas produced from the acreage. In November 2014, Dominion Energy Gas closed on an agreement with a natural gas producer to convey over time approximately 24,000 acres of Marcellus Shale development rights underneath one of its natural gas storage fields. The agreement provided for payments to Dominion Energy Gas, subject to customary adjustments, of approximately $120 million over a period of four years, and an overriding royalty interest in gas produced from the acreage. In January 2018, Dominion Energy Gas and the natural gas producer closed on an amendment to the agreement, which included the conveyance of Dominion Energy Gas remaining 50% interest in approximately 18,000 acres and the elimination of Dominion Energy Gas overriding royalty interest in gas produced from all acreage for proceeds of $28 million. 10 See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on certain of these sales of Marcellus and Utica acreage. Operating Segments In December 2019, Dominion Energy strategically realigned its segments which resulted in the formation of five primary operating segments: Dominion Energy Virginia, Gas Transmission Storage, Gas Distribution, Dominion Energy South Carolina and Contracted Generation. Dominion Energy also reports a Corporate and Other segment, which includes its corporate, service companies and other functions (including unallocated debt). In addition, Corporate and Other includes specific items attributable to Dominion Energy s other operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segments performance or in allocating resources. Virginia Power manages its daily operations through its primary operating segment: Dominion Energy Virginia. It also reports a Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segments that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segment s performance or in allocating resources. Dominion Energy Gas manages its daily operations through its primary operating segment: Gas Transmission Storage. It also reports a Corporate and Other segment that primarily includes specific items attributable to its operating segment that are not included in profit measures evaluated by executive management in assessing the segment s performance or in allocating resources and the effect of certain items recorded at Dominion Energy Gas as a result of Dominion Energy s basis in the net assets contributed. While daily operations are managed through the operating segments previously discussed, assets remain wholly-owned by the Companies and their respective legal subsidiaries. A description of the operations included in the Companies primary operating segments is as follows: Primary Operating Segment Description of Operations Dominion Energy Virginia Power Dominion Energy Gas Dominion Energy Virginia Regulated electric distribution X X Regulated electric transmission X X Regulated electric generation fleet (1) X X Gas Transmission Storage Regulated gas transmission and storage (2) X X LNG terminalling and storage X X Nonregulated retail energy marketing X Gas Distribution Regulated gas distribution and storage (3) X Dominion Energy South Carolina Regulated electric distribution X Regulated electric transmission X Regulated electric generation fleet X Regulated gas distribution and storage X Contracted Generation Merchant electric generation fleet X (1) Includes Virginia Power s nonjurisdictional generation operations. (2) Includes gathering and processing activities. (3) Includes Wexpro s natural gas development and production operations. Dominion Energy Virginia The Dominion Energy Virginia Operating Segment is substantially composed of Virginia Power s regulated electric transmission, distribution (including customer service) and generation (regulated electric utility and its related energy supply) operations, which serve approximately 2.6 million residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in Virginia and North Carolina. Virginia Power s growth capital plan includes spending approximately $16 billion from 2019 through 2023 to upgrade or add new transmission lines, distribution lines, substations, and other facilities, as well as maintain existing and construct new generation capacity to meet growing electricity demand within its service territory in order to maintain reliability and regulatory compliance. The proposed infrastructure projects and investment commitments are intended to address both continued customer growth and increases in electricity consumption which are primarily driven by new and larger data center customers, as well as support its Subsequent License Renewal projects as it is seeking 20-year license extensions for the regulated nuclear fleet in Virginia. See Properties and Environmental Strategy for additional information on this and other utility projects. Virginia Power has also created a ten-year plan to transform its electric grid into a smarter, stronger and greener grid. This plan will address the structural limitations of Virginia Power s distribution grid in a systematic manner in order to recognize and 11 accommodate fundamental changes and requirements in the energy industry. The objective is to address both customer and system needs by (i) achieving even higher levels of reliability and resiliency against natural and man-made threats, (ii) leveraging technology to enhance the customer experience and improve the operation of the system and (iii) safely and effectively integrating new utility-scale renewable generation and storage as well as customer level distributed energy resources such as rooftop solar and battery storage. In 2019, the Virginia Commission approved a portion of this plan. Revenue provided by electric distribution and generation operations is based primarily on rates established by the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions. Approximately 84% of revenue comes from serving Virginia jurisdictional customers. Base rates for the Virginia jurisdiction are set using a modified cost-of-service rate model, and are generally designed to allow an opportunity to recover the cost of providing utility service and earn a reasonable return on investments used to provide that service. Variability in earnings is driven primarily by changes in rates, weather, customer growth and other factors impacting consumption such as the economy and energy conservation, in addition to operating and maintenance expenditures. Electric operations continue to focus on improving service and experience levels while striving to reduce costs and link investments to operational results. SAIDI performance results, excluding major events, were 138 minutes for the three-year average ending 2019, up from the previous three-year average of 134 minutes. This increase is primarily due to increased storm activity. Earnings may reflect variations in the timing or nature of expenses as compared to those contemplated in current rates, such as labor and benefit costs, capacity expenses, the timing, duration and costs of scheduled and unscheduled outages as well as the customer s ability to choose a generation service provider. The cost of fuel and purchased power is generally collected through fuel cost-recovery mechanisms established by regulators and does not materially impact net income. The cost of new generation facilities is generally recovered through rate adjustment clauses in Virginia. Variability in earnings from rate adjustment clauses reflects changes in the authorized ROE and the carrying amount of these facilities, which are largely driven by the timing and amount of capital investments, as well as depreciation. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenue provided by Virginia Power s electric transmission operations is based primarily on rates approved by FERC. The profitability of this business is dependent on its ability, through the rates it is permitted to charge, to recover costs and earn a reasonable ROIC. Variability in earnings primarily results from changes in rates and the timing of property additions, retirements and depreciation. Virginia Power is a member of PJM, an RTO, and its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM wholesale electricity markets. Consistent with the increased authority given to NERC by EPACT, Virginia Power s electric transmission operations are committed to meeting NERC standards, modernizing its infrastructure and maintaining superior system reliability. Competition There is no competition for electric distribution service within Virginia Power s service territory in Virginia and North Carolina and no such competition is currently permitted. Historically, since its electric transmission facilities are integrated into PJM and electric transmission services are administered by PJM, there was no competition in relation to transmission service provided to customers within the PJM region. However, competition from non-incumbent PJM transmission owners for development, construction and ownership of certain transmission facilities in Virginia Power s service territory is permitted pursuant to Order 1000, subject to state and local siting and permitting approvals. This could result in additional competition to build and own transmission infrastructure in Virginia Power s service area in the future and could allow Dominion Energy to seek opportunities to build and own facilities in other service territories. Additionally, there is some competition for Virginia Power s generation operations for Virginia jurisdictional electric utility customers that meet certain size requirements or that seek to purchase 100% renewable energy from competitive suppliers. See Electric under State Regulations in Regulation for more information. Currently, North Carolina does not offer retail choice to electric customers. Virginia Power s non-jurisdictional operations are not currently subject to significant competition as the output from these facilities is primarily sold under long-term power purchase agreements with terms generally ranging from 16 to 25 years. However, in the future, such operations may compete with other power generation facilities to serve certain large-scale customers after the power purchase agreements expire. Regulation Virginia Power s electric distribution and generation operations, including the rates it may charge to jurisdictional customers, as well as wholesale electric transmission rates, tariffs and terms of service, are subject to regulation by the Virginia and North Carolina Commissions as well as FERC, the NRC, the EPA, the DOE and the Army Corps of Engineers. See State Regulations and Federal Regulations in Regulation, Future Issues and Other Matters in Item 7 MD A and Notes 13 and 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Properties For a description of existing facilities see Item 2. Properties. As a part of PJM s RTEP process, PJM authorized the following material reliability projects (including Virginia Power s estimated cost): Mt. Storm-to-Valley ($290 million); Gainesville-to-Haymarket ($170 million); Idylwood -to-Tysons ($125 million); Glebe substation and North Potomac Yard terminal station underground ($125 million); Remington/Gordonsville/Pratts Area Improvement (including Remington-to-Gordonsville, and new Gordonsville substation transformer) ($115 million); Idylwood substation ($105 million); Harmony Village-to-White Stone ($105 million); Elmont-to-Ladysmith ($90 million); Lanexa-to-Northern Neck ($90 million); Loudoun-to-Ox ($70 million); Mt. Storm substation ($70 million); Bristers-to-Chancellor ($65 million); and Dooms-to-Valley ($65 million). 12 Virginia Power is investing in transmission substation physical security and expects to invest an additional $125 m