ITEM 1. BUSINESS 2 General 2 Executive Officers of the Registrant 12 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 13 Risk Factors Relating to Delta 13 Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 21 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 22 Flight Equipment 22 Ground Facilities 23 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 24 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 25 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 27 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION S 29 Financial Highlights 29 Results of Operations 31 Non-Operating Results 35 Income Taxes 35 Refinery Segment 36 Financial Condition and Liquidity 37 Contractual Obligations 40 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 41 Supplemental Information 46 Glossary of Defined Terms 47 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 48 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 49 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 96 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 96 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 98 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE REGISTRANT 98 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 98 Page ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 98 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 98 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 99 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 99 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 102 SIGNATURES 103 Unless otherwise indicated, the terms "Delta," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Delta Air Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements in this Form 10-K (or otherwise made by us or on our behalf) that are not historical facts, including statements about our estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions, projections or strategies for the future, may be "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or our present expectations. Known material risk factors applicable to Delta are described in "Risk Factors Relating to Delta" and "Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry" in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K, other than risks that could apply to any issuer or offering. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this report. 1 Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are the leading U.S. global airline serving 200 million customers every year. We connect customers across our expansive global network to more than 300 destinations in over 50 countries. We are the world s largest airline by total revenues and the most profitable with five consecutive years of $5 billion or more in pre-tax income. We are committed to industry-leading safety and reliability and are consistently among the industry s best performers. Our employees provide world-class travel experiences for our customers and give back to the communities where they live, work and serve. Our people and service are our strongest competitive advantage creating significant customer satisfaction improvements. Other key competitive advantages include operational reliability, our global network, customer loyalty and our investment grade balance sheet. We have diversified revenue streams beyond the basic sale of an airline ticket in order to reduce the impact of cyclicality on our results. Our growing partnership with American Express provides a co-brand revenue stream tied to broader consumer spending. Our focus in recent years on premium products and customer segmentation has enhanced our revenue growth and reduced reliance on the most price sensitive customer segment. We also maintain complementary portfolio businesses, such as our Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul ( MRO ) division, where we are well positioned for significant organic growth through contractual agreements with jet engine manufacturers. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at Hartsfield- Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia. Our telephone number is (404) 715-2600 and our internet address is www.delta.com. Information contained on our website is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this Form 10-K. The Delta Brand We have the world s most valuable airline brand, one that is mentioned not just among the best global airlines, but also alongside top consumer brands. Over the last decade, we significantly improved the quality and reliability of our operations. As a result, customer satisfaction scores have more than tripled. With operational excellence and best-in-class service, we are earning our customers' trust and preference. Our continued investment in operations, product, service, airports and technology are reshaping customer perception of our brand and driving increased customer loyalty. Our Global Network and Fleet We offer more than 5,000 daily departures and as many as 15,000 affiliated departures including the premier SkyTeam alliance, of which Delta is a founding member. We generate over 70% of our passenger revenue from our domestic network, centered around high-margin core hubs in Atlanta, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Detroit and Salt Lake City. These core hub positions complement strong coastal hub positions in Boston, Los Angeles, New York-LaGuardia, New York-JFK and Seattle. We have agreements with domestic regional carriers that operate as Delta Connection to feed traffic to our domestic hubs. We serve the Transatlantic, Transpacific and Latin America markets directly on Delta and through joint ventures with global airline partners. Internationally, we have significant hubs and market presence in Amsterdam, London-Heathrow, Mexico City, Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Seoul-Incheon. We will become the largest U.S. carrier to Tokyo-Haneda in 2020 as we consolidate operations in Tokyo, the preferred airport for the local and corporate markets. Through innovative alliances with Aerom xico, Air France-KLM, China Eastern, Korean Air, Virgin Atlantic and Virgin Australia and alliances pending regulatory approval with LATAM Airlines and WestJet, we are bringing more choice to customers worldwide. Our strategic relationships with these international airlines are an important part of our business as they improve our access to markets around the world and enable us to provide customers a more seamless global travel experience across our alliance network. We and our alliance partners collectively serve over 140 countries and more than 900 destinations around the world, extending our network reach to cover approximately 98% of global gross domestic product. The most significant of these arrangements are commercial joint ventures that include joint sales and marketing coordination, co-location of airport facilities and other commercial cooperation arrangements. In some cases, we have reinforced strategic alliances through equity investments where we have opportunity to create deep relationships and maximize commercial cooperation. 2 Our network is supported by a fleet of over 1,000 aircraft that is varied in size and capabilities, giving us flexibility to adjust aircraft to the network. We are currently refreshing our fleet, acquiring new, more fuel efficient aircraft with increased premium seating, to replace older aircraft. We are also reducing our fleet complexity with fewer aircraft types. The evolution from a legacy fleet to a more optimal fleet suited to the scale of our network will provide substantial efficiency benefits and further efforts to reduce our carbon footprint. Expanded Products and Services Over the last decade we have fundamentally transformed our business. We have invested in our people, our product and our reliability to alter the commodity-like nature of air travel. We have a retail oriented, merchandised approach to distribution with well-defined and differentiated products for our customers. Through improved product segmentation, we offer distinct travel experiences with clear value propositions that enable customer choice. In 2019, approximately one-third of our passenger revenues were from premium products, which include Delta One , Delta Premium Select, First Class and Delta Comfort+ . Main Cabin products, including Basic Economy, represented approximately half of our revenue in 2019 and provide varying levels of pre-travel flexibility as well as our exceptional service onboard the aircraft. Our tickets are sold through various distribution channels, with 52% of tickets sold through direct channels. These include digital channels, such as delta.com and the Fly Delta app, and our reservations specialists where we deliver more direct, personalized interactions with our customers at reduced distribution costs. Indirect distribution channels include online travel agencies and traditional "brick and mortar" agencies. We make fare and product information widely available across those channels, ensuring customers always receive the best information and service options. We are implementing merchandising initiatives across our distribution channels to allow customers to better understand our product offerings, make it easier to buy the products they desire and increase customer satisfaction. This merchandising effort is most effective in Delta's digital channels where customers can compare all product options in a single, easy to understand display. Innovative Technology to Improve Service and Efficiency Our objective is to make technology a strategic differentiator. We continue to invest in technological improvements that support our operations and provide tools for our employees. These investments include improvements to infrastructure and technology architecture to unify and improve access to data sources and continue innovations in customer facing applications. This digital transformation is enhancing interactions with our customers and allows our people to deliver more personalized service, further enhancing the customer experience and strengthening our brand. Through the development of innovative new technologies, we can better serve customers and give our employees the best tools. For our customers, we are making investments in the Fly Delta app, in the airport and onboard our aircraft. We are evolving the Fly Delta app into a digital travel concierge for our customers to offer convenient services on the day of travel and deliver thoughtful notifications to make their travel journeys more seamless. In the airport, we are investing to create a smoother, less stressful travel experience. On board the aircraft, we continue to invest in in-flight entertainment with the most seat-back screens in the sky and free messaging. For our employees, we are investing in applications that allow our people to have more meaningful interactions with our customers, as well as tools to make our employees safer and better able to do their jobs. Customer Loyalty Program Our SkyMiles loyalty program is designed to grow customer loyalty by offering incentives to customers to increase travel on Delta. As Delta's brand has strengthened, the SkyMiles program has seen an acceleration in membership growth. We see opportunity to continue this momentum as we increase customer engagement and expand mileage redemption options and revamp our co-brand card offerings. The loyalty program allows program members to earn mileage credit ("miles") for award redemptions such as flights and upgrades, by flying on Delta, our regional carriers and other participating airlines. Miles may also be earned by using certain services offered by program participants, such as credit card companies, hotels, car rental agencies and ridesharing companies. In addition, individuals may purchase miles. Miles do not expire, but are subject to the program rules. We reserve the right to terminate the program with six months advance notice, and to change the program's terms and conditions at any time without notice. 3 Our most significant contract to sell miles relates to our co-brand credit card relationship with American Express. In early 2019, we amended our primary co-brand agreement and other related agreements with American Express. The new agreements increase the amount of total benefit that we receive and extend the duration of the relationship to 2029. In 2019, cash sales from American Express totaled $4 billion, which is expected to grow to nearly $7 billion by 2023. Loyalty program miles can be redeemed for air travel (including upgrades) on Delta and participating airlines, for membership in our Delta Sky Clubs and for other awards. We are expanding redemption opportunities and recently began enabling customers to redeem miles for bag fees. We offer last-seat availability for travel awards on our own flights (including most Delta Connection flights). Miles are subject to certain transfer restrictions and travel awards on partner airlines are subject to capacity-controlled seating. In 2019, 8.9% of revenue miles flown on Delta were from award travel, as program members redeemed miles in the loyalty program for 20 million award redemptions. Joint Ventures, Equity Investments and Alliances Joint Venture Agreements. We have implemented four separate joint venture arrangements with foreign carriers, each of which has been granted antitrust immunity from the U.S. Department of Transportation ("DOT"). We have reinforced a number of the agreements through equity investments in those carriers. Each of our joint venture arrangements provides for joint commercial cooperation with the relevant partner within the geographic scope of the arrangement, including the sharing of revenues and/or profits and losses generated by the parties on the joint venture routes, as well as joint marketing and sales, coordinated pricing and revenue management, network and schedule planning and other coordinated activities with respect to the parties' operations on joint venture routes. Our implemented commercial joint ventures consist of the following: A combined joint venture with Air France, KLM and Virgin Atlantic with respect to transatlantic traffic flows. In addition to the joint venture, we own a non-controlling 49% equity stake in Virgin Atlantic Limited, the parent company of Virgin Atlantic Airways and a non-controlling 9% ownership stake in the parent company of Air France and KLM. A joint venture with Aerom xico with respect to trans-border traffic flows between the U.S. and Mexico. In addition to the joint venture, we own a non-controlling 51% equity stake in Grupo Aerom xico, S.A.B. de C.V., the parent company of Aerom xico. In addition, we and Aerom xico have established a joint venture relating to an airframe MRO operation located in Queretaro, Mexico. A joint venture with Korean Air with respect to traffic flows between the United States and certain countries in Asia. In addition to the joint venture, we own a 10% equity stake in Hanjin-KAL, the largest shareholder of Korean Air. A joint venture with Virgin Australia and its affiliated carriers with respect to traffic flows between North America and Australia/New Zealand. We have entered into a joint venture agreement with WestJet with respect to trans-border traffic flows between the U.S. and Canada. Canadian authorities have approved the joint venture, but it remains subject to required approvals of the U.S. DOT. In 2019, we entered into a framework agreement with LATAM Airlines Group S.A. ( LATAM ) to form a strategic alliance. Pursuant to that agreement, we acquired a non-controlling 20% equity stake in LATAM in January 2020. The parties are in the process of finalizing definitive agreements to implement the strategic alliance and once finalized, the agreements will be submitted for approval by regulatory authorities. Pursuant to the framework agreement, we agreed to make transition payments to LATAM totaling $350 million, $200 million of which was disbursed in 2019, and also agreed to acquire four A350 aircraft from LATAM and plan to assume ten of LATAM s A350 purchase commitments from Airbus, with deliveries through 2025. In order to facilitate the formation of our strategic alliance with LATAM, we have sold our ownership stake in GOL and are winding down our commercial agreements. Enhanced Commercial Agreements with China Eastern. We own a 3% equity interest in China Eastern, with whom we have a strategic joint marketing and commercial cooperation arrangement covering traffic flows between China and the U.S., which includes reciprocal codesharing, loyalty program participation, airport lounge access and joint sales cooperation. 4 SkyTeam . In addition to our marketing alliance agreements with individual foreign airlines, we are a member of the SkyTeam global airline alliance. The other members of SkyTeam are Aeroflot, Aerol neas Argentinas, Aerom xico, Air Europa, Air France, Alitalia, China Airlines, China Eastern, CSA Czech Airlines, Garuda Indonesia, Kenya Airways, KLM, Korean Air, Middle East Airlines, Saudi Arabian Airlines, Tarom, Vietnam Airlines and Xiamen Airlines. Through alliance arrangements with other SkyTeam carriers, Delta is able to link its network with the route networks of the other member airlines, providing opportunities to increase connecting traffic while offering enhanced customer service through reciprocal codesharing and loyalty program participation, airport lounge access and cargo operations. Regional Carriers We have air service agreements with domestic regional air carriers that feed traffic to our route system by serving passengers primarily in small and medium-sized cities in the domestic market. These arrangements enable us to better match capacity with demand in these markets. Approximately 15% of our passenger revenue in 2019 was related to flying by regional air carriers. Through our regional carrier program, Delta Connection , we have contractual arrangements with regional carriers to operate aircraft using our "DL" designator code. We currently have contractual arrangements with: Compass Airlines, LLC ("Compass") and GoJet Airlines, LLC ("GoJet"), both subsidiaries of Trans States Holdings, Inc. ("Trans States"); Endeavor Air, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ours; Republic Airline, Inc. ("Republic"), a subsidiary of Republic Airways Holdings, Inc.; and SkyWest Airlines, Inc., a subsidiary of SkyWest, Inc. We have agreed with each of Compass and GoJet not to renew our existing arrangements and end our relationship with each by the end of 2020. Our contractual agreements with regional carriers primarily are capacity purchase arrangements, under which we control the scheduling, pricing, reservations, ticketing and seat inventories for the regional carriers' flights operating under our "DL" designator code. We are entitled to all ticket, cargo, mail, in-flight and ancillary revenues associated with these flights. We pay those airlines an amount, as defined in the applicable agreement, which is based on a determination of their cost of operating those flights and other factors intended to approximate market rates for those services. These capacity purchase agreements are long-term agreements, usually with initial terms of at least ten years, which grant us the option to extend the initial term. Certain of these agreements provide us the right to terminate the entire agreement, or in some cases remove some of the aircraft from the scope of the agreement, for convenience at certain future dates. SkyWest Airlines operates some flights for us under a revenue proration agreement. This proration agreement establishes a fixed dollar or percentage division of revenues for tickets sold to passengers traveling on connecting flight itineraries. Global Impact As we connect people with communities, experiences and each other, we are committed to doing our part to build a better world. Giving back to the communities where we live, work and serve is part of our culture, and we have pledged to give one percent of our annual net income back to communities across the globe. As a purpose-driven and values-led company, we are committed to reducing our environmental impact. We were among the leaders in the industry to offer comprehensive onboard recycling to our passengers and are working to reduce our use of single-use plastics. The chief focus of reducing our impact on the environment is jet fuel, which is the primary contributor to our carbon footprint. We continue to focus on increasing fuel efficiency as we replace older aircraft with more fuel-efficient jets and improve the efficiency of our existing aircraft through operational efforts. 5 Other Businesses Cargo Through our global network, our cargo operations are able to connect the world's major freight gateways. We generate cargo revenues in domestic and international markets through the use of cargo space on regularly scheduled passenger aircraft. We are a member of SkyTeam Cargo, a global airline cargo alliance, whose other members are Aeroflot, Aerol neas Argentinas, Aerom xico Cargo, Air France-KLM Cargo, Alitalia Cargo, China Airlines Cargo, China Cargo Airlines, Czech Airlines Cargo, Korean Air Cargo and Saudia Cargo. SkyTeam Cargo offers a global network spanning six continents. Related Businesses We have several other businesses arising from our airline operations. In 2019, the total revenue from these businesses was approximately $1.2 billion. In addition to providing maintenance and engineering support for our fleet of over 1,000 mainline and regional aircraft, our MRO operation, known as Delta TechOps, serves aviation and airline customers from around the world. Our vacation wholesale subsidiary, Delta Vacations, provides vacation packages to third-party consumers. Delta Private Jets, until January 2020 a wholly-owned subsidiary, provides aircraft charters, aircraft management and programs allowing members to purchase flight time by the hour. In January 2020, we combined Delta Private Jets with Wheels Up, establishing one of the world s largest owned and managed fleets of private aircraft. We now own an equity stake in Wheels Up. Fuel Our results of operations are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. We purchase most of our aircraft fuel under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices and therefore do not provide material protection against price increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We also purchase aircraft fuel on the spot market, from off-shore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set the price. The following table shows our aircraft fuel consumption and costs. Year Gallons Consumed (1) (in millions) Cost (1)(2) (in millions) Average Price Per Gallon (1)(2) Percentage of Total Operating Expense (1)(2) 2019 4,214 $ 8,519 $ 2.02 21.1 % 2018 4,113 $ 9,020 $ 2.20 23.0 % 2017 4,032 $ 6,756 $ 1.68 19.2 % (1) Includes the operations of our regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements. (2) Includes the impact of fuel hedge activity and refinery segment results. Monroe Energy Our wholly owned subsidiaries, Monroe Energy, LLC and MIPC, LLC (collectively, "Monroe") operate the Trainer refinery and related assets located near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The facilities include pipelines and terminal assets that allow the refinery to supply jet fuel to our airline operations throughout the Northeastern U.S., including our New York hubs at LaGuardia and JFK. These companies are distinct from us, operating under their own management teams and with their own boards of managers. We own Monroe as part of our strategy to mitigate the cost of the refining margin reflected in the price of jet fuel, as well as to maintain sufficiency of supply to our New York operations. Refinery Operations. The facility is capable of refining approximately 200,000 barrels of crude oil per day. In addition to jet fuel, the refinery's production consists of gasoline, diesel and other refined petroleum products ("non-jet fuel products"). Monroe sources domestic and foreign crude oil supply from a variety of providers. Strategic Agreements. Monroe exchanges the non-jet fuel products the refinery produces with third parties for jet fuel consumed in our airline operations. 6 Fuel Hedging Program Our derivative contracts to hedge the financial risk from changing fuel prices are primarily related to Monroe s inventory. We may utilize different contract and commodity types in this program and frequently test their economic effectiveness against our financial targets. We closely monitor the hedge portfolio and rebalance the portfolio based on market conditions, which may result in locking in gains or losses on hedge contracts prior to their settlement dates. Fuel Supply Availability We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, including fuel produced by Monroe or procured through the exchange of non-jet fuel products the refinery produces, and crude oil for Monroe's operations. However, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft fuel and crude oil. Weather-related events, natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in governmental policy concerning aircraft fuel production, transportation, taxes or marketing, changes in refining capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in future fuel supply shortages and fuel price increases. Competition The airline industry is highly competitive, marked by significant competition with respect to routes, fares, schedules (both timing and frequency), services, products, customer service and loyalty programs. The industry has evolved through mergers and new entry, both domestically and internationally, and evolution in international alliances. Consolidation in the airline industry, the presence of subsidized government sponsored international carriers, changes in international alliances and the creation of immunized joint ventures have altered, and will continue to alter, the competitive landscape in the industry, resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with significant financial resources, extensive global networks and competitive cost structures. Domestic Our domestic operations are subject to competition from traditional network carriers, including American Airlines and United Airlines, national point-to-point carriers, including Alaska Airlines, JetBlue Airways and Southwest Airlines, and other discount or ultra low-cost carriers, including Spirit Airlines, Frontier Airlines and Allegiant Air, some of which may have lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. Point-to-point, discount and ultra low-cost carriers place significant competitive pressure on network carriers in the domestic market. In particular, we face significant competition at our domestic hubs and key airports either directly at those airports or at the hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs and key airports. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operations of other carriers. International Our international operations are subject to competition from both foreign and domestic carriers. Competition from government-owned and subsidized carriers in the Gulf region, including Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways, is significant. These carriers have large numbers of international widebody aircraft on order and have increased service to the U.S. These carriers' government subsidies have allowed them to grow quickly, reinvest in their product and expand their global presence at the expense of U.S. airlines. Through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional European and Asian gateway cities. Similarly, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior U.S. passenger traffic beyond traditional U.S. gateway cities through these relationships. In particular, alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including SkyTeam, the Star Alliance (among United Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Air Canada and others) and the oneworld alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways, Qantas and others) have enhanced competition in international markets. In addition, several joint ventures among U.S. and foreign carriers, including our joint ventures, have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. Other joint ventures that have received antitrust immunity include a transatlantic alliance among United Airlines, Air Canada and Lufthansa German Airlines, a transpacific joint venture between United Airlines and All Nippon Airways, a transatlantic joint venture among American Airlines, British Airways and Iberia, a transpacific joint venture between American Airlines and Japan Air Lines and a transpacific joint venture between American Airlines and Qantas. 7 Regulatory Matters The DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (the "FAA") exercise regulatory authority over air transportation in the U.S. The DOT has authority to issue certificates of public convenience and necessity required for airlines to provide domestic air transportation. An air carrier that the DOT finds fit to operate is given authority to oper