Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 60 Item 2. Properties 60 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 60 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 63 Part II 64 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 64 Item 6. [Reserved] 65 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 65 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 81 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 82 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 120 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 120 Item 9B. Other Information 120 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 121 Part III 122 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 122 Item 11. Executive Compensation 122 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owner and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 122 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 122 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 122 Part IV 123 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 123 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 Signatures 125 3 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, would, intend, target, project, contemplate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, Total Orders, Marketplace GOV, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, our ability to determine reserves, and our ability to maintain and increase long-term future profitability; our ability to successfully execute our business and growth strategy; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to meet our liquidity needs; the demand for our platform or for local logistics platforms in general; our ability to attract and retain merchants, consumers and Dashers; our ability to effectively manage costs related to Dashers; our ability to develop new offerings, services and features, and bring them to market in a timely manner and make enhancements to our platform; our ability to compete with existing and new competitors in existing and new markets and offerings; our expectations regarding outstanding litigation and legal and regulatory matters; our expectations regarding the effects of existing and developing laws and regulations, including with respect to independent contractor classification, pricing and commissions, taxation and privacy and data protection; our ability to manage and insure auto-related and operations-related risk associated with our business; our expectations regarding new and evolving markets; our ability to develop and protect our brand; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our platform; our expectations and management of future growth; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to integrate companies and assets that we acquire; our expectations regarding our proposed acquisition of Wolt Enterprises Oy ("Wolt"), including the timing, completion, and expected benefits, as well as plans, objectives, and expectations with respect to future operations and markets in which we, Wolt, and the combined company will operate; the increased expenses associated with being a public company; and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, or a similar public health threat, on global capital and financial markets, general economic conditions in the United States, and our business and operations. We caution you that the foregoing list may not contain all of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward- 4 Table of Contents looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that the results, events, and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events, or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Moreover, the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. 5 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business OUR BUSINESS Our mission is to grow and empower local economies. We aim to achieve this by providing a logistics and technology platform that enables local businesses to address consumers modern expectations of ease and immediacy. Our business consists of our Marketplace and Platform Services. We built our Marketplace to serve the needs of three key constituents: merchants, consumers and Dashers. Our Marketplace enables merchants to establish an online presence and expand their reach by connecting them with millions of consumers. Merchants can fulfill this demand through delivery, generally facilitated by our local logistics platform, or in-person pickup by consumers. As part of our Marketplace, we offer merchants a broad array of services that enable them to solve mission-critical challenges such as customer acquisition and demand generation, order fulfillment, merchandising, payment processing, and customer support. We also enable merchants to advertise and promote on our platform in order to acquire new consumers and drive incremental sales. Our Marketplace provides a platform for over 25 million monthly active users ("MAU") 1 to discover, engage with, and purchase goods from merchants in their community. Our aim is to consistently improve our consumer value proposition by increasing the quantity and variety of merchants that are available on our Marketplace, while also improving the level of convenience, quality, and service we provide. Marketplace also includes DashPass, our membership program which aims to improve affordability and lower transactional friction by reducing the delivery and service fees we charge consumers. In addition to our Marketplace, which accounts for the vast majority of our revenue today, our Platform Services business, which primarily consists of Drive and Storefront, offers services to help merchants facilitate sales through their own channels. Drive, our white-label logistics service, enables merchants to fulfill consumer demand they have generated through their own channels using our local logistics platform. Storefront enables merchants to create their own branded online ordering experience, providing them with a turnkey solution to offer consumers on-demand access to e-commerce without investing in in-house engineering or logistics capabilities. For Dashers, both our Marketplace and Platform Services provide opportunities for those looking for accessible and flexible ways to earn and achieve their goals. Dashers choose when and where to dash, as well as how frequently and for how long to dash each time they choose to do so. We provide earnings transparency so that Dashers can make informed decisions about the deliveries they choose to make. We believe our business benefits only when we provide attractive services for each of our three key constituents: merchants, consumers, and Dashers. Consequently, in order to grow our business, we intend to provide merchants with a growing suite of services that help them build and grow their businesses; consumers with a broad selection of merchants to choose from, consistent and high quality experiences, and affordability that drives increased adoption; and Dashers with an attractive combination of accessibility, choice, and earning opportunity that competes effectively for their time. COMPETITION The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and characterized by shifting user preferences, fragmentation, and frequent introductions of new services and offerings. We compete for our constituencies on the following criteria: Merchants. We compete for merchants based on our ability to generate consumer demand and the quality of our business enablement and demand fulfillment services. We believe that we are positioned favorably based on the scale of our consumer base, the breadth of our demand fulfillment capabilities, and our broad array of services that enable merchants to solve mission-critical challenges. Consumers. We compete for consumers based on a number of factors, including the selection of merchants available, the quality of the ordering, fulfillment and service experience, and affordability. We believe that we are positioned favorably based on the combination of merchant selection, experience, and value we provide. Dashers. We compete to attract and retain Dashers based on a number of factors, including accessibility of our platform, flexibility in when, where, how much and how frequently to work, and earnings potential. We believe that we are well-positioned based on the limited requirements necessary to qualify, the density of our network, the improving efficiency of our platform, and the opportunities we provide Dashers to earn. 1 Based on the number of individual consumer accounts that have completed an order on our Marketplace in the past month, measured as of December 31, 2021. 6 Table of Contents Local food delivery logistics, the largest category of our business today, is fragmented and intensely competitive. In the United States, we compete with other local food delivery logistics platforms including Uber Eats, Grubhub (acquired by Just Eat Takeaway in June 2021), and Postmates (acquired by Uber in December 2020), chain merchants that have their own online ordering platforms, pizza companies, such as Domino s, online ordering systems, other merchants which own and operate their own delivery fleets, grocery delivery services, traditional grocers, and companies that provide point of sale solutions and merchant delivery services. As we continue to expand our presence internationally, we will also face competition from local incumbents in these markets. In addition, we compete with traditional offline ordering channels, such as take-out offerings, telephone, and paper menus that merchants distribute to consumers as well as advertising that merchants place in local publications to attract consumers. With Drive, and as we continue to expand into other industry verticals beyond food, we expect to compete with large Internet companies with substantial resources, users, and brand power, such as Amazon and Google. We believe we compete favorably for merchants, consumers, and Dashers. Our innovation, brand, and focused execution have allowed us to quickly extend our network and geographic reach and we plan to continue our efforts to expand within our existing markets and enter new markets and geographies in the future. For additional information about the risks to our business related to competition, see the section titled Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. HUMAN CAPITAL Employees As of December 31, 2021, we had over 8,600 employees worldwide. We also engage contractors and consultants. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we believe that our employee relations are strong. We believe that people are at the core of every business. This drives our focus on improving the experiences of merchants, consumers, and Dashers, and it also drives how we think about our employees and the culture and values that we cultivate. Our employees are critical to our success. At DoorDash, we grow and empower local economies. We give our team the freedom and opportunity to build the future for our company, our constituencies, and our communities. Together, with grit, courage, and rapid innovation, we create the dynamic energy that drives our business forward. Dashers We are committed to make dashing an earnings opportunity that is accessible, flexible, and supportive of social progress. In 2021, over 6 million people dashed 2 , earning a total of over $11 billion. Dashers worked an average of less than four active hours per week throughout the year. We believe choice and access are empowering. Our goal with dashing is to provide as many people as we can with an opportunity to earn incremental income in a way that fits their lives. Since Dashers are independent contractors, we must compete for their time and effort with every order. We compete against other earning opportunities as well as alternative uses of time like leisure. Because of this competition, we must provide earnings opportunities that are attractive, worthwhile, and incremental to other choices available. Specifically, we strive to make dashing positive based on: Accessibility : We believe the barriers-to-entry in dashing are very low. Prospective Dashers must pass a background check and, in most geographies, have access to a bike, scooter, or car. People who qualify to become Dashers are often eligible to begin generating income within a day of signing up. We know of no other earning opportunity that provides superior accessibility to dashing. Flexibility : Once Dashers qualify, they choose whether to dash, where to dash, when to dash, how long to dash for, and how frequently to dash. This allows Dashers to scale their effort to their earning needs. It also allows Dashers to generate earnings around the other commitments they have in their lives, which often include full or part-time jobs, school, parenting or commitments to care for family or friends. 2 Based on the number of Dasher accounts that have delivered an order through our platform in the past year, measured as of December 31, 2021. 7 Table of Contents Earnings : Dashers dash in order to earn income, so we must provide earnings that are competitive with alternative opportunities and commensurate with Dashers' expectations. In addition to the absolute level of earnings, we provide tools that improve immediacy and accessibility of earnings, as this is often valued by Dashers. Service : We aim to provide Dashers with high levels of service. This includes a dedicated service team that is accessible through our app, website, email, chat, and phone. We also provide visibility into our policies and practices for determining ratings and deactivations. Our mission to grow and empower local economies creates a culture that promotes progress in all of our stakeholder relationships. Just as importantly, our business cannot thrive, or even survive, without Dashers. As a result, our business and financial ambitions are well aligned with our goal to make dashing an attractive and incremental earning opportunity that promotes social progress by giving people more choice in how they achieve their financial goals. Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion At DoorDash, we are committed to growing and empowering inclusive communities in our company, our industry, and the cities we serve. We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce is critical to helping us attract and retain the talent necessary to grow our business. We also believe we will be a more successful company if we amplify the voices of those who have not always been heard, and when everyone has room at the table and the tools, resources, and opportunities to succeed. Some of our diversity and inclusion programs at DoorDash include: Elevate Elevate is a program designed to increase the representation of women of color in leadership roles at our company. The year-long program starts with each member of our management team sponsoring fellows to serve on our leadership team, which exposes them to senior leadership and supports their development of business skills. Women s Leadership Forum Our Women s Leadership Forum equips mid- to senior-level technical women with skills to thrive in our workplace. This six-month program happens once a year and includes classroom-style learning, one-on-one coaching, and group roundtables. Members of our management team actively participate in the forum. Employee Resource Groups We support employee-led employee resource groups ("ERGs"), which foster a diverse and inclusive workplace. We currently have eight ERGs: Black@DoorDash, Latinx@DoorDash, Women@DoorDash, Pride@DoorDash (LGBTQIA+), AAPI@DoorDash (Asians, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders), Veterans@DoorDash, Indigenous@DoorDash, and Parents@DoorDash, all of which are open to people of all backgrounds. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business. We rely on trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets, license agreements, intellectual property assignment agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, and employee non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, we believe that factors such as the skills and ingenuity of our employees and the functionality and frequent enhancements to our platform are larger contributors to our success in the marketplace. We have invested in a patent program to identify and protect a substantial portion of our strategic intellectual property in logistics, selection optimization, and other technologies relevant to our business. As of December 31, 2021, we had 250 issued U.S. patents, 53 U.S. patent applications pending, and 25 patent applications pending in a foreign jurisdiction. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines, and logos in the United States and other countries to the extent we determine appropriate and cost-effective. As of December 31, 2021, we held 37 registered trademarks in the United States and 73 registered 8 Table of Contents trademarks in foreign jurisdictions. We also have common law rights in some trademarks and numerous pending trademark applications in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we have registered domain names for websites that we use in our business, such as www.doordash.com and other variations. We intend to pursue additional intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost-effective. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. For additional information, see the sections titled Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Intellectual property infringement assertions by third parties could result in significant costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation and Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. GOVERNMENT REGULATION We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions. These laws, regulations, and standards govern issues such as worker classification, labor and employment, commissions and fees, anti-discrimination, payments, gift cards, whistleblowing and worker confidentiality obligations, product liability, environmental protection, personal injury, text messaging, membership services, intellectual property, consumer protection and warnings, marketing, taxation, privacy, data protection, data security, competition, unionizing and collective action, arbitration agreements and class action waiver provisions, terms of service, mobile application and website accessibility, money transmittal, and background checks. The sale and delivery of goods through our platform is also subject to laws, regulations, and standards that govern food safety, alcohol, tobacco, cannabidiol, pharmaceuticals and controlled substances, hazardous substances, and the interstate and intrastate transport of goods. These regulations are often complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state, and local administrative agencies. See the sections titled Risk Factors, including the sections titled Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Legal and Regulatory Environment If Dashers are reclassified as employees under federal or state law, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected, Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Legal and Regulatory Environment Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, many of which are unsettled and still developing, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject us to claims or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations and subject us to legal claims, and Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We primarily rely on a third-party payment processor to process payments made to merchants and Dashers and a small number of third-party payment processors to process payments made by consumers, and if we cannot manage our relationship with such third party and other payment-related risks, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, for additional information about the laws and regulations we are subject to and the risks to our business associated with such laws and regulations. CORPORATE INFORMATION We were incorporated in 2013 as Palo Alto Delivery Inc., a Delaware corporation. In 2015, we changed our name to DoorDash, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 303 2nd Street, South Tower, 8th Floor, San Francisco, California 94107, and our telephone number is (650) 487-3970. We completed our initial public offering, or our IPO, in December 2020, and our Class A common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DASH . 9 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website is located at www.doordash.com, and our investor relations website is located at ir.doordash.com. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings at www.sec.gov. We announce material information to the public about us, our products and services, and other matters through a variety of means, including filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, webcasts, the investor relations section of our website (ir.doordash.com), our blog (doordash.news), and our Twitter account (@DoorDash) in order to achieve broad, non-exclusionary distribution of information to the public and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The information disclosed by the foregoing channels could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above and to review the information disclosed through such channels. Any updates to the list of disclosure channels through which we will announce information will be posted on the investor relations page on our website. 10 Table of Contents