Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Reserved 29 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 57 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 57 Item 9B. Other Information 57 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 57 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11. Executive Compensation 58 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 58 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 58 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 59 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 61 SIGNATURES 62 3 Table of Contents DuPont de Nemours, Inc. DuPont TM and all products, unless otherwise noted, denoted with TM , SM or are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks of affiliates of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This communication contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In this context, forward-looking statements often address expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," "will," "would," "target," stabilization, confident, preliminary, initial, and similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding outlook. Forward-looking statements address matters that are, to varying degrees, uncertain and subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, many of which that are beyond DuPont's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results. Some of the important factors that could cause DuPont's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) the possibility that the Company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the $1 billion share repurchase program announced on February 6, 2024 and that the program may be suspended, discontinued or not completed prior to its termination on June 30, 2025; (ii) risks and uncertainties related to the settlement agreement concerning PFAS liabilities reached June 2023 with plaintiff water utilities by Chemours, Corteva, EIDP and DuPont; (iii) risks and costs related to each of the parties respective performance under and the impact of the arrangement to share future eligible PFAS costs by and between DuPont, Corteva and Chemours, including the outcome of any pending or future litigation related to PFAS or PFOA, including personal injury claims and natural resource damages claims; the extent and cost of ongoing remediation obligations and potential future remediation obligations; changes in laws and regulations applicable to PFAS chemicals; (iv) ability to achieve anticipated tax treatments in connection with completed and future, if any, divestitures, mergers, acquisitions and other portfolio changes actions and impact of changes in relevant tax and other laws; (v) indemnification of certain legacy liabilities; (vi) failure to realize expected benefits and effectively manage and achieve anticipated synergies and operational efficiencies in connection with completed and future, if any, divestitures, mergers, acquisitions, and other portfolio management, productivity and infrastructure actions; (vii) risks and uncertainties, including increased costs and the ability to obtain raw materials and meet customer needs from, among other events, pandemics and responsive actions; timing and recovery from demand declines in consumer-facing markets, including in China; adverse changes in worldwide economic, political, regulatory, international trade, geopolitical, capital markets and other external conditions; and other factors beyond the Company's control, including inflation, recession, military conflicts, natural and other disasters or weather related events, that impact the operations of the Company, its customers and/or suppliers; (viii) ability to offset increases in cost of inputs, including raw materials, energy and logistics; (ix) risks associated with demand and market conditions in the semiconductor industry and associated end markets, including from continuing or expanding trade disputes or restrictions, including on exports to China of U.S.-regulated products and technology; (x) risks, including ability to achieve, and costs associated with DuPont s sustainability strategy including the actual conduct of the company s activities and results thereof, and the development, implementation, achievement or continuation of any goal, program, policy or initiative discussed or expected; and (xi) other risks to DuPont's business and operations, including the risk of impairment; each as further discussed in DuPont s most recent annual report and subsequent current and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements. Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business or supply chain disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on DuPont s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, credit rating or liquidity. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. DuPont assumes no obligation to publicly provide revisions or updates to any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws. 4 Table of Contents DuPont de Nemours, Inc. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as otherwise noted by the context, the terms "DuPont" or "Company" used herein mean DuPont de Nemours, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. DuPont is a Delaware corporation formed in 2015 (formerly, DowDuPont Inc.), for the purpose of effecting an all-stock merger of equals transactions between The Dow Chemical Company ("TDCC") and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("EID"). Effective August 31, 2017, pursuant to the merger of equals transaction contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017 ("DWDP Merger Agreement"), TDCC and EID each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont Inc. ("DowDuPont") and, as a result, TDCC and EID became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the "DWDP Merger"). Prior to the DWDP Merger, DowDuPont did not conduct any business activities other than those required for its formation and matters contemplated by the DWDP Merger Agreement. For purposes of DowDuPont's financial statement presentation, TDCC was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the DWDP Merger and EID's assets and liabilities are reflected at fair value as of the DWDP Merger Effectiveness Time. On April 1, 2019, the Company completed the separation of the materials science business through the spin-off of Dow Inc., ( Dow ) including Dow s subsidiary TDCC (the Dow Distribution ). On June 1, 2019, the Company completed the separation of the agriculture business through the spin-off of Corteva, Inc. ( Corteva ) including Corteva s subsidiary EID, (the Corteva Distribution and together with the Dow Distribution, the DWDP Distributions ). Effective January 1, 2023, Corteva s subsidiary EID changed its name to EIDP, Inc. ( EIDP ), and therefore references to EID reflect this name change as appropriate. DuPont is a global innovation leader with technology-based materials and solutions that help transform industries and everyday life by applying diverse science and expertise to help customers advance their best ideas and deliver essential innovations in key markets including electronics, transportation, construction, water, healthcare and worker safety. At December 31, 2023, the Company has subsidiaries in about 50 countries worldwide and manufacturing operations in about 24 countries. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the location of the Company's sales and property. Significant Transformational Divestitures On February 1, 2021, the Company completed the divestiture of the Nutrition Biosciences ( N B ) business to International Flavors Fragrance Inc. ( IFF ) in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the N B Transaction ) that resulted in IFF issuing shares to DuPont stockholders. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. On February 18, 2022, the Company announced that it had entered an agreement on February 17, 2022, (the "Transaction Agreement") with Celanese Corporation ("Celanese") for divestiture of the majority of DuPont s historic Mobility Materials ( M M ) segment, (the M M Divestiture ). The Auto Adhesives Fluids, Multibase TM and Tedlar product line, which were part of the historic M M segment, are referred to as the "Retained Businesses". On November 1, 2022, DuPont and Celanese completed the M M Divestiture and DuPont received cash proceeds of $11 billion which was subject to transaction adjustments in accordance with the Transaction Agreement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. As part of its announcement on February 18, 2022 regarding the M M Divestiture, DuPont also announced the Board of Directors' approval for the divestiture of the Delrin acetal homopolymer (H-POM) business (the "Delrin Divestiture"). On November 1, 2023, the Company closed the sale of the Delrin business to TJC LP ("TJC"), (the Delrin Divestiture ). The Delrin Divestiture together with the M M Divestiture, are referred to as the M M Divestitures . Financial Flexibility and Return of Excess Capital Following the M M Divestiture, in November 2022, DuPont redeemed in full $2.5 billion in fixed-rate long term senior unsecured notes due November 2023. In the fourth quarter of 2022, DuPont's Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $5 billion of common stock, (the "$5B Share Buyback Program ). In the third quarter 2023, the Company completed the repurchase $3.25 billion of its common stock through an accelerated share repurchase ( ASR ) transaction (the $3.25B ASR Transaction ) with $250 million of such repurchases completing the $1 billion share repurchase program approved in February 2022 (the 2022 Share Buyback Program ) and the remaining $3 billion under the $5B Share Buyback Program. 5 Table of Contents In the third quarter of 2023, DuPont entered into new accelerated share repurchase agreements with three financial counterparties to repurchase an aggregate of $2 billion of common stock ("$2B ASR Transaction"). The accelerated repurchase agreements under the $2B ASR Transaction were settled during the first quarter of 2024 and in total the Company repurchased 27.9 million shares under the transaction. The completion of the $2B ASR Transaction completes the $5B Share Buyback Program and the Company's stock repurchase authorization. Subsequent to year end, in the first quarter 2024, the Company s Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $1 billion of common stock ( the $1B Program ). Under the $1B Program, repurchases may be made from time to time on the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions off market, including additional ASR agreements in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. The $1B Program terminates on June 30, 2025, unless extended or shortened by the Board of Directors. Subsequent to year end, in the first quarter 2024, DuPont entered an ASR agreement with one counterparty for the repurchase of about $500 million of common stock. DuPont received initial deliveries in February 2024 of 6 million shares of common stock. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average stock price for DuPont common stock during the term of the ASR agreement, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement is expected in the second quarter 2024. Targeted Acquisitions On July 1, 2021, DuPont completed the acquisition of the Laird Performance Materials business (the Laird PM Acquisition ) from Advent International. which was integrated into Interconnect Solutions within the Electronics Industrial segment. On August 1, 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of Spectrum Plastics Group ( Spectrum ) from AEA Investors (the Spectrum Acquisition ) which is onboarding into Industrial Solutions within the Electronics Industrial segment. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. BASIS OF PRESENTATION The M M Divestitures represent a strategic shift with a related major impact on DuPont's operations and results. Beginning in and subsequent to the second quarter of 2023, the Company has elected to segregate the cash flows from discontinued operations from the cash flows from continuing operations in accordance with ASC 230, Statement of Cash Flows. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows have been recast for all periods to reflect the change in presentation. The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report present the financial position of DuPont as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the results of operations of DuPont for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows giving effect to the M M Divestitures and the N B Transaction as if each had occurred on January 1, 2021, with the historical financial results of the businesses divested as part of the M M Divestitures (the "M M Businesses") and the N B Transaction reflected as discontinued operations, as applicable. The comprehensive income related to the M M Businesses and the N B business have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, for the year ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, as applicable. Unless otherwise indicated, the information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements refer only to DuPont's continuing operations and do not include discussion of balances or activity of the M M Businesses or N B. SEGMENT INFORMATION The revenues and certain expenses of the M M Businesses are classified as discontinued operations in the current and historical periods. Indirect costs, such as those related to corporate and shared service functions previously allocated to the M M Businesses, do not meet the criteria for discontinued operations and remain reported within continuing operations. The Retained Businesses are not included in the scope of the M M Divestitures and are included in Corporate Other. See Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 23 in this annual report for additional information concerning the Company s operating segments. 6 Table of Contents ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIAL Electronics Industrial is a leading global provider of differentiated materials and component solutions for high performance computing, 5G, electric vehicles ("EV"), a broad range of consumer electronics including mobile devices, television monitors, personal computers and a variety of other industries including aerospace, defense, transportation, healthcare and medical devices. The segment supplies industry leading materials and solutions for the fabrication of semiconductors and integrated circuits addressing multiple steps of the manufacturing process. The segment offers a broad portfolio of semiconductor and advanced packaging materials, providing chemical mechanical planarization ("CMP") pads and slurries, photoresists and advanced coatings for lithography, removers and cleaners; dielectric and metallization solutions for advanced chip packaging; along with silicones for light emitting diode ("LED") packaging and semiconductor applications. Electronics Industrial also provides permanent and process chemistries for the fabrication of printed circuit boards to include laminates and substrates, electroless and electrolytic metallization solutions, as well as patterning solutions and materials and innovative metallization processes for metal finishing, decorative, and industrial applications and provides high-performance electromagnetic shielding and thermal management solutions. Since the acquisition of Spectrum, Electronics Industrial also produces specialty medical devices. Electronics Industrial is a leading global supplier in the packaging graphics industry providing photopolymer plates and platemaking systems used in flexographic printing and digital inks for textile, commercial and home-office printing applications. The segment also provides cutting-edge materials for the manufacturing of rigid and flexible displays for organic light emitting diode ("OLED") and other display applications. In addition, the segment produces high performance parts and specialty silicone elastomers and lubricants to meet customer specifications in automotive, aerospace, electronics, industrial and healthcare markets. Electronics Industrial addresses these markets by leveraging a strong science and technology base and customer-driven application engineering capabilities to provide the critical materials and solutions for creating a more connected and digital world. Acquisitions Divestitures On August 1, 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of Spectrum Plastics Group from AEA Investors. Spectrum is a recognized leader in advanced manufacturing of specialty medical devices and components with a strategic focus on key therapeutic areas such as structural heart, electrophysiology, surgical robotics and cardiovascular. Spectrum is presented within the Industrial Solutions business. On July 1, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Laird Performance Materials ("Laird PM") from Advent International. Laird PM is a leader in high-performance electromagnetic shielding and thermal management solutions. Laird PM is presented within the Interconnect Solutions business. Details on Electronics Industrial's 2023 net sales, by major product line and geographic region, are as follows: 7 Table of Contents Products Major applications/market segments and technologies are listed below by major product line: Major Product Line Applications/Market Segments Technologies Semiconductor Technologies Integrated circuit fabrication for memory and logic semiconductors CMP consumables, photolithography materials, semiconductor fabrication materials, fabrication cleaners and removers, advanced chip packaging materials and thermal management materials Interconnect Solutions Printed circuit board, electronic and industrial finishing Circuit packaging film and laminate materials, interconnect metallization and imaging process chemistries, dry film photoresists, polyimide films, flexible circuit materials, electromagnetic shielding and thermal management materials Industrial Solutions 1 Flexographic printing and inkjet printing, display materials, high performance parts and specialty silicones for automotive, aerospace, electronics, industrial, healthcare and medical device markets Flexographic printing plates and materials, digital inks, OLED and other display process materials, LED encapsulants, perfluoroelastomer and polyimide parts and shapes, and specialty silicone elastomers and lubricants 1. Spectrum, a recently acquired component of the Electronics Industrial Segment, has been included within the Industrial Solutions business. Key Raw Materials The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Electronics Industrial segment include: p-acetoxystyrene, monomers, pigments and dyes, styrenic block copolymers, copper foil, diglycolamine, hydroxylamine, filler alumina, nickel silver, oxydianiline, palladium, photoactive compounds, polyester and other polymer films, polyethylene resins, polyurethane resins, polyvinyl chloride compounds, pyromellitic dianhydride and silicones. Current and Future Investments The Company invested approximately $70 million in its Electronics Industrial segment to build new production assets at a Newark, Delaware plant to expand the production of KALREZ perfluoroelastomer parts to meet global customer demand from the semiconductor and industrials sectors. The new assets were fully operational as of November 2023. 8 Table of Contents WATER PROTECTION Water Protection is the global leader in providing innovative engineered products and integrated systems for a number of industries including, worker safety, water purification and separation, transportation, energy, medical packaging and building materials. Water Protection addresses the growing global needs of businesses, governments and consumers for solutions that make life safer, healthier and better. Innovation is the business imperative. By uniting market-driven science and engineering with the strength of highly regarded brands including KEVLAR high-strength material, NOMEX thermal-resistant material, CORIAN solid surfaces, TYVEK selective barriers, FILMTEC reverse osmosis elements, AMBERLITE ion exchange resins, STYROFOAM insulation and GREAT STUFF insulating foam sealants, the segment strives to bring new products and solutions to solve customers' needs faster, better and more cost effectively. Water Protection is investing in future growth initiatives such as water management solutions, construction productivity solutions, high strength and light weighting composite solutions and circular ecosystem / zero waste solutions. Details on Water Protection's 2023 net sales, by major product line and geographic region, are as follows: Products Major applications and products are listed below by major product line: Major Product Line Applications / Market Segments Major Products / Technologies Safety Solutions Industrial personnel protection, military and emergency response, medical devices and packaging, automotive, aerospace and oil and gas KEVLAR fiber; NOMEX fiber and paper; TYVEK protective materials; TYCHEM protective suits Shelter Solutions Rigid and spray foam insulation, weatherization, waterproofing and air sealing, caulks and sealants, roof coatings and decorative surface materials STYROFOAM brand insulation products, THERMAX exterior insulation, XENERGY high performance insulation, LIQUIDARMOR flashing and sealant, GREAT STUFF insulating foam sealants and adhesives, CORIAN design solid and quartz surfaces, TYVEK weather resistant barriers Water Solutions Water filtration and purification technology for residential, municipal and industrial use. Key industries include municipal drinking water and wastewater, power generation, microelectronics, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, industrial wastewater reuse, metals and mining and oil and gas segments AMBERLITE ion exchange resins, FILMTEC reverse osmosis and nanofiltration elements, INTEGRAFLUX ultrafiltration modules, FORTILIFE challenging water reverse osmosis membranes and TAPTEC water filtration and purification for drinking water in homes and commercial buildings 9 Table of Contents Key Raw Materials The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Water Protection segment include: methyl methacrylate, alumina trihydrate, methyl pentanediol, styrene, polysulfone, Terephthaloyl- Isophthaloyl- chloride, high-density polyethylene, polyethylene, aniline, calcium chloride, divinyl benzene monomers caustic and sulfuric acid. Current and Future Investments The Company previously announced plans to invest more than $400 million in Water Protection to increase capacity for the manufacture of TYVEK nonwoven materials at its Luxembourg site due to growing global demand. Start up and scaling for the new TYVEK operating line began in the first quarter of 2024. CORPORATE OTHER Corporate Other includes sales and activity of the Retained Businesses including the Auto Adhesives Fluids, Multibase TM and Tedlar product lines. The costs of the M M Businesses that are classified as discontinued operations include only direct operating expenses incurred prior to the November 1, 2022 M M Divestiture and costs which the Company stopped incurring upon the close of the Delrin Divestiture. Indirect costs, such as those related to corporate and shared service functions previously allocated to the M M Businesses, do not meet the criteria for discontinued operations and remain reported within continuing operations. A portion of these indirect costs related to activities the Company continues to undertake post-closing of the M M Divestiture, and for which it is reimbursed by Celanese, ( Future Reimbursable Indirect Costs ). In addition, a portion of these indirect costs relate to activities the Company is contractually obligated under the separation agreements to continue to perform post the close of the Delrin Divestiture and for which it is being reimbursed by the divested Delrin business. Future Reimbursable Indirect Costs are reported within continuing operations but are excluded from operating EBITDA as defined below. The remaining portion of these indirect costs are not subject to future reimbursement ( Stranded Costs ). Stranded Costs are reported within continuing operations in Corporate Other and are included within Operating EBITDA. Corporate Other includes Stranded Costs and Future Reimbursable Indirect Costs. The results of Corporate Other include the sales and activity of certain divested businesses including the operations of Biomaterials, Clean Technologies and Solamet business units. Corporate Other also includes certain enterprise and governance activities including non-allocated corporate overhead costs and support functions, leveraged services, non-business aligned litigation expenses and other costs not absorbed by reportable segments. 10 Table of Contents INDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION RESULTS See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net sales by business or major product line. Sales by geographic region are included within Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", "Results of Operations." See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding total net sales and total assets by segment, as well as net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND COMPETITION In 2023, no significant portion of the Company's sales was dependent upon a single customer. The markets in which the Company participates compete primarily through technology, range of products and services, performance, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, service and support. The Company provides extensive support, technical services and testing services for its customers, in addition to new product development. The Company believes that its proprietary product and process technologies, robust product and application development pipelines, customer intimacy, global manufacturing capability and local service capability enable it to compete successfully. DuPont is a multi-industrial company and is subject to competition across all product and service areas. Key competitors include but are not limited to: Electronics Industrial: Element Solutions, Entegris, Henkel, JSR, Merck KGaA, MKS Instruments, Parker Hannifin, and TOK. Water Protection: 3M, Honeywell, Hydranautics, Kingspan, Kolan, Lanxess, LG Chem, Owens-Corning, Ecolab, Avient, Toray, Teijin, and Yantai. Against this competitive backdrop, value-in-use is the primary driver of price for the Company s products, although price is impacted by many factors including, among others, fluctuations in supply and demand, and availability and cost of key manufacturing inputs including raw materials and energy. SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF MAJOR RAW MATERIALS In 2023, DuPont continued to experience the impact of continued demand declines in consumer facing markets, channel inventory destocking and slower industrial demand in China. Prices are driven by global supply and demand. In recent years, raw material prices and availability have been affected by worldwide economic conditions, including supply chain disruptions and inflationary cost pressures. The Company actively works to mitigate impacts of widespread supply chain and logistics issues. DISTRIBUTION Most products are marketed primarily through the Company's sales organization, although for some product lines, more emphasis is placed on sales through distributors. The Company has a diverse worldwide network which markets and distributes the Company's brands to customers globally. This network consists of the Company's sales and marketing organization partnering with distributors, independent retailers, cooper