Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Reserved 29 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 57 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 57 Item 9B. Other Information 57 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 57 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11. Executive Compensation 58 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 58 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 58 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 59 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 62 SIGNATURES 63 3 DuPont de Nemours, Inc. DuPont TM and all products, unless otherwise noted, denoted with TM , SM or are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks of affiliates of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This communication contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In this context, forward-looking statements often address expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," "will," "would," "target," and similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words. Capitalized terms used in this section but not defined below have the meanings assigned in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements address matters that are, to varying degrees, uncertain and subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, many of which that are beyond DuPont's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results. Some of the important factors that could cause DuPont's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) the timing and outcome of the In-Scope M M Divestiture Process and the risks, costs and ability to realize benefits from the pursuit of any disposition of the In-Scope M M Businesses resulting therefrom; (ii) ability to achieve anticipated tax treatments in connection with mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other portfolio changes actions and impact of changes in relevant tax and other laws; (iii) indemnification of certain legacy liabilities of EID in connection with the Corteva Distribution; (iv) risks and costs related to each of the parties respective performance under and the impact of the arrangement to share future eligible PFAS costs by and between DuPont, Corteva and Chemours; (v) failure to timely close on anticipated terms, realize expected benefits and effectively manage and achieve anticipated synergies and operational efficiencies in connection with mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other portfolio changes including the Intended Rogers Acquisition (vi) risks and uncertainties, including increased costs and the ability to obtain raw materials and meet customer needs, related to operational and supply chain impacts or disruptions, which may result from, among other events, the COVID-19 pandemic and actions in response to it, and geo-political and weather-related events; (vii) ability to offset increases in cost of inputs, including raw materials, energy and logistics; and (viii) other risks to DuPont's business, operations; each as further discussed in the section titles "Risk Factors" (part 1, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements. Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business or supply chain disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on DuPont s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, credit rating or liquidity. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. DuPont assumes no obligation to publicly provide revisions or updates to any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws. 4 DuPont de Nemours, Inc. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as otherwise noted by the context, the terms "DuPont" or "Company" used herein mean DuPont de Nemours, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont Inc. changed its registered name to DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ( DuPont ) (for certain events prior to June 1, 2019, the Company may be referred to as DowDuPont). Beginning on June 3, 2019, the Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "DD." DuPont is a Delaware corporation formed in 2015 (formerly, DowDuPont Inc.), for the purpose of effecting an all-stock merger of equals transactions between The Dow Chemical Company ("TDCC") and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("EID"). Effective August 31, 2017, pursuant to the merger of equals transaction contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017 ("DWDP Merger Agreement"), TDCC and EID each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont Inc. ("DowDuPont") and, as a result, TDCC and EID became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the "DWDP Merger"). Prior to the DWDP Merger, DowDuPont did not conduct any business activities other than those required for its formation and matters contemplated by the DWDP Merger Agreement. For purposes of DowDuPont's financial statement presentation, TDCC was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the DWDP Merger and EID's assets and liabilities are reflected at fair value as of the DWDP Merger Effectiveness Time. On April 1, 2019, the Company completed the separation of the materials science business through the spin-off of Dow Inc., ( Dow ) including Dow s subsidiary TDCC (the Dow Distribution ). On June 1, 2019, the Company completed the separation of the agriculture business through the spin-off of Corteva, Inc. ( Corteva ) including Corteva s subsidiary EID, (the Corteva Distribution and together with the Dow Distribution, the DWDP Distributions ). DuPont is a global innovation leader with technology-based materials and solutions that help transform industries and everyday life by applying diverse science and expertise to help customers advance their best ideas and deliver essential innovations in key markets including electronics, transportation, building and construction, healthcare and worker safety. At December 31, 2021, the Company has subsidiaries in about 60 countries worldwide and manufacturing operations in about 25 countries. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the location of the Company's sales and property. On February 1, 2021, the Company completed the divestiture of the Nutrition Biosciences ( N B ) business to International Flavors Fragrance Inc. ( IFF ) in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the N B Transaction ) that resulted in IFF issuing shares to DuPont stockholders. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. On July 1, 2021, DuPont completed the acquisition of the Laird Performance Materials business (the Laird PM Acquisition ) from Advent International. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. On November 2, 2021, DuPont announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Rogers Corporation for cash, (the Intended Rogers Acquisition ). The transaction is subject to approval by Rogers shareholders, which was received on January 25, 2022, regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. On November 2, 2021, DuPont announced that it has initiated a divestiture process (the In-Scope M M Divestiture Process ) related to a substantial portion of its Mobility Materials segment, not including, among other things, the Auto Adhesives and Multibase TM businesses, (the In-Scope M M Businesses ). The outcome of which, including the entry into a definitive agreement, is subject to approval of the DuPont Board of Directors. 5 BASIS OF PRESENTATION The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report present the financial position of DuPont as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 and the results of operations of DuPont for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 giving effect to the divestiture of N B and the DWDP Distributions, with the historical financial results of N B, Dow, and Corteva reflected as discontinued operations, as applicable. The cash flows and comprehensive income related to N B, Dow, and Corteva have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, as applicable. Unless otherwise indicated, the information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements refer only to DuPont's continuing operations and do not include discussion of balances or activity of N B, Dow, or Corteva. SEGMENT INFORMATION Effective February 1, 2021, in conjunction with the closing of the N B Transaction, the Company changed its management and reporting structure (the 2021 Segment Realignment ). DuPont s worldwide operations are managed through global businesses, which are currently reported in three reportable segments: Electronics Industrial; Water Protection; and Mobility Materials. The changes became effective February 1, 2021 and have been retrospectively reflected in the segment results for all periods presented. See Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 23 in this annual report for additional information concerning the Company s operating segments. 6 ELECTRONICS INDUSTRIAL Electronics Industrial is a leading global supplier of differentiated materials and systems for a broad range of consumer electronics including mobile devices, television monitors, personal computers and electronics used in a variety of industries. The segment is a leading supplier of key materials for the manufacturing of materials and printing systems to the advanced printing industry, and of materials and solutions for the fabrication of semiconductors and integrated circuits addressing both the front-end and back-end of the manufacturing process. The segment offers a broad portfolio of semiconductor and advanced packaging materials, providing chemical mechanical planarization ("CMP") pads and slurries, photoresists and advanced coatings for lithography, removers and cleaners; dielectric and metallization solutions for back-end-of-line advanced chip packaging; along with silicones for light emitting diode ("LED") packaging and semiconductor applications. Electronics Industrial also provides permanent and process chemistries for the fabrication of printed circuit boards to include laminates and substrates, electroless and electrolytic metallization solutions, as well as patterning solutions and materials and innovative metallization processes for metal finishing, decorative, and industrial applications. With the acquisition of Laird Performance Materials, Electronics Industrial also provides high-performance electromagnetic shielding and thermal management solutions. Electronics Industrial is a leading global supplier in the packaging graphics industry providing photopolymer plates and platemaking systems used in flexographic printing and digital inks for textile, commercial and home-office printing applications. The segment also provides cutting-edge materials for the manufacturing of rigid and flexible displays for organic light emitting diode ("OLED"), and other display applications. In addition, the segment produces high performance parts, and specialty silicone elastomers and lubricants to meet customer specifications in automotive, aerospace, electronics, industrial, and healthcare markets. Electronics Industrial addresses these markets by leveraging a strong science and technology base and customer-driven application engineering capabilities to provide the critical materials and solutions for creating a more connected and digital world. 2021 Segment Realignment In conjunction with the 2021 Segment Realignment, KALREZ /VESPEL , and Healthcare and Specialty Lubricants (Medical Silicones and MOLYKOTE lubricants) moved to Electronics Imaging from Mobility Materials (previously, Transportation Industrial) and the segment was renamed Electronics Industrial. The Image Solutions business, which includes the additional technologies, was renamed Industrial Solutions. Acquisitions Divestitures On July 1, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Laird Performance Materials ("Laird PM") from Advent International. Laird PM is a leader in high-performance electromagnetic shielding and thermal management solutions. Laird PM is presented within the Interconnect Solutions business. In the first quarter of 2020, the Company completed the sale of its Compound Semiconductor Solutions business unit to SK Siltron. The proceeds received in the first quarter of 2020 related to the sale of the business were approximately $420 million. Details on Electronics Industrial's 2021 net sales, by major product line and geographic region, are as follows: 7 Products Major applications/market segments and technologies are listed below by major product line: Major Product Line Applications/Market Segments Technologies Semiconductor Technologies Integrated circuit fabrication for memory and logic semiconductors CMP consumables, photolithography materials, semiconductor fabrication materials, fabrication cleaners and removers, advanced chip packaging materials and thermal management materials Interconnect Solutions Printed circuit board, electronic and industrial finishing Circuit packaging film and laminate materials, interconnect metallization and imaging process chemistries, dry film photoresists, polyimide films, flexible circuit materials, electromagnetic shielding and thermal management materials Industrial Solutions Flexographic printing and inkjet printing, display materials, high performance parts and specialty silicones for automotive, aerospace, electronics, industrial and healthcare markets Flexographic printing plates and materials, digital inks, OLED and other display process materials, LED encapsulants, perfluoroelastomer and polyimide parts and shapes, and specialty silicone elastomers and lubricants Key Raw Materials The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Electronics Industrial segment include: p-acetoxystyrene, monomers, pigments and dyes, styrenic block copolymers, copper foil, diglycolamine, dimethylacetamide, hydroxylamine, filler alumina, nickel silver, oxydianiline, palladium, photoactive compounds, polyester and other polymer films, polyurethane resins and pyromellitic dianhydride and silicones. Current and Future Investments In March 2019, the Company announced plans to invest more than $200 million in its Electronics Industrial segment to build new production assets at its Circleville, Ohio, plant. The new assets will expand production of KAPTON polyimide film and PYRALUX flexible circuit materials to meet growing market demand. At December 31, 2021, the project is substantially complete and the Company will begin qualifying material in the first half of 2022. The Company will invest approximately $70 million in its Electronics Industrial segment to build new production assets at a Newark, Delaware plant. The new assets will expand production of Kalrez perfluoroelastomer parts to meet growing market demand. At December 31, 2021, the Company had spent approximately $14 million since the start of the project, and expects the new assets to be operational in mid 2023. Intended Rogers Acquisition On November 2, 2021, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all the outstanding shares of Rogers Corporation ( Rogers ). The acquisition is expected to close by the end of the second quarter of 2022 and, when complete, is expected to broaden the Company s presence in the electronic materials market. The completion of the acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. 8 WATER PROTECTION Water Protection is the global leader in providing innovative engineered products and integrated systems for a number of industries including, worker safety, water purification and separation, transportation, energy, medical packaging and building materials. Water Protection addresses the growing global needs of businesses, governments and consumers for solutions that make life safer, healthier and better. Innovation is the business imperative. By uniting market-driven science and engineering with the strength of highly regarded brands including KEVLAR high-strength material, NOMEX thermal-resistant material, CORIAN solid surfaces, TYVEK selective barriers, FILMTEC reverse osmosis elements, STYROFOAM insulation and GREAT STUFF insulating foam sealants, the segment strives to bring new products and solutions to solve customers' needs faster, better and more cost effectively. Water Protection is investing in future growth initiatives such as water management solutions, construction productivity solutions, high strength and light weighting composite solutions, and circular ecosystem / zero waste solutions. Acquisitions During the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company completed three acquisitions: (1) BASF's Ultrafiltration Membrane business, including inge GmbH; (2) Evoqua Water Technologies Corp. s MEMCOR business including ultrafiltration and membrane biofiltration technologies; and (3) OxyMem Limited, a company that develops and produces Membrane Aerated Biofilm Reactor technology. In the first quarter of 2020, the Company acquired Desalitech Ltd., a closed circuit reverse osmosis (CCRO) company. Details on Water Protection's 2021 net sales, by major product line and geographic region, are as follows: 9 Products Major applications and products are listed below by major product line: Major Product Line Applications / Market Segments Major Products / Technologies Safety Solutions Industrial personnel protection, military and emergency response, medical devices and packaging, automotive, aerospace and oil and gas KEVLAR fiber; NOMEX fiber and paper; TYVEK protective materials; TYCHEM protective suits Shelter Solutions Rigid and spray foam insulation, weatherization, waterproofing and air sealing, caulks and sealants, roof coatings, and decorative surface materials STYROFOAM brand insulation products, THERMAX exterior insulation, WALOCEL cellulose ethers, XENERGY high performance insulation, LIQUIDARMOR flashing and sealant, GREAT STUFF insulating foam sealants and adhesives, CORIAN design solid and quartz surfaces, TYVEK weather resistant barriers Water Solutions Water filtration and purification technology for residential, municipal and industrial use. Key industries include municipal drinking water and wastewater, power generation, microelectronics, pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, industrial wastewater reuse, metals and mining, and oil and gas segments AMBERLITE ion exchange resins, FILMTEC reverse osmosis and nanofiltration elements, INTEGRAFLUX ultrafiltration modules, FORTILIFE challenging water reverse osmosis membranes, and TAPTEC water filtration and purification for drinking water in homes and commercial buildings Key Raw Materials The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Water Protection segment include: alumina trihydrate, aniline, benzene, calcium chloride, carbon monoxide, chlorine, divinyl benzene monomers, high-density polyethylene, isophthalic acid, metaphenylenediamine, methyl methacrylate, methylpentanediol, polyester resin, polypropylene, polystyrene, sulfuric acid and terephthalic acid. Current and Future Investments The Company previously announced plans to invest more than $400 million in Water Protection to increase capacity for the manufacture of TYVEK nonwoven materials at its Luxembourg site due to growing global demand. The expansion for the new operating line of TYVEK nonwoven materials is expected to be completed in 2023. 10 MOBILITY MATERIALS Mobility Materials provides high-performance engineering thermoplastics, elastomers, adhesives, silicone encapsulants, pastes, filaments and advanced films to engineers and designers in the transportation, electronics, renewable energy, industrial and consumer end-markets to enable systems solutions for demanding applications and environments. Mobility Materials is a global leader in providing innovative advanced materials solutions with technologies that differentiate customers products through improved performance characteristics. The business' technology is enabling the transition to hybrid-electric-connected vehicles and high speed high frequency connectivity. 2021 Segment Realignment In conjunction with the 2021 Segment Realignment, Kalrez /Vespel , and Healthcare and Specialty Lubricants (Medical Silicones and Molykote lubricants) moved from Transportation Industrial to Electronics Imaging. Certain previous Non-Core businesses including TEDLAR and Microcircuit Materials (previously part of Photovoltaic Advanced Materials ("PVAM")), and DuPont Teijin Films shifted from the former Non-Core segment to Transportation Industrial. The major product lines were reorganized into Engineering Polymers, Performance Resins, and Advanced Solutions and the segment was renamed Mobility Materials effective February 1, 2021. Details on Mobility Material's 2021 net sales, by major product line and geographic region, are as follows: Products Major applications and products are listed below by major product line, all which serve the transportation, electronics, renewable energy, industrial and consumer end-markets. Major Product Line Major Products Advanced Solutions BETASEAL , BETAMATE and BETAFORCE , BETATECH structural, elastic and thermal interface adhesives, metallization pastes, TEDLAR polyvinyl, fluoromaterials, FORTASUN silicone encapsulants and adhesives, MYLAR , and MELINEX polyester films Performance Resins HYTREL polyester thermoplastic elastomer resins, DELRIN acetal resins, MULTIBASE thermoplastic additives and VAMAC ethylene acrylic elastomer. Engineering Polymers DUPONT ZYTEL nylon resins, CRASTIN PBT thermoplastic polyester resin, RYNITE PET polyester resin and TYNEX filaments Key Raw Materials The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Mobility Materials segment include: adipic acid, butanediol, carbon black, dimethyl terephthalate, epoxy resins, fiberglass, flame retardants, hexamethylene diamine, methanol, polyethylene terephthalate, purified terephthalic acid and precious metals. 11 Mobility Materials Intended Divestiture On November 2, 2021 the Company announced that it has initiated a divestiture process related to a substantial portion of the Mobility Materials segment, which predominantly includes the Engineering Polymers and Performance Resins lines of business. While strategic alternatives are considered, the Mobility Materials segment will remain in its current management and reporting structure. INDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC REGION RESULTS See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net sales by business or major product line. Sales by geographic region are included within Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", "Results of Operations." See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding total net sales, pro forma net sales, pro forma Operating EBITDA and total assets by segment, as well as net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region. SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND COMPETITION In 2021, no significant portion of the Company's sales was dependent upon a single customer. The markets in which the Company participates compete primarily through technology, range of products and services, performance, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, service and support. The Company provides extensive support, technical services and testing services for its customers, in addition to new product development. The Company believes that its proprietary product and process technologies, robust product and application development pipelines, customer intimacy, global manufacturing capability and local service capability enable it to compete successfully. DuPont is a multi-industrial company and is subject to competition across all product and service areas. Key competitors include but are not limited to: Electronics Industrial: 3M, Atotech, CMC Materials, Element Solutions, Entegris, Henkel, Merck KGaA, and Parker Hannifin. Water Protection: 3M, Honeywell, Hydranautics, Kingspan, Lanxess, LG Corp, Owens-Corning, Purolite, Royal DSM, Toray and Teijin. Mobility Materials: BASF, Celanese, EMS Chemie, Henkel, Lanxess, Mitsubishi, Royal DSM and Sika. Against this competitive backdrop, value-in-use is the primary driver of price for the Company s products, although price is impacted by many factors including, among others, fluctuations in supply and demand, and availability and cost of key manufacturing inputs including raw materials and energy. SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF MAJOR RAW MATERIALS The novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) and its variants continue to adversely impact the broader global economy, including certain of the Company s suppliers for key raw materials. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused widespread supply chain challenges due to labor disruptions, increased raw material costs and component shortages, namely the semiconductor chip shortage. In addition, logistic challenges have increased significantly in the second half of 2021 causing delays and increased costs. The Company is actively working to mitigate the impact of the widespread supply chain and logistics issues. DISTRIBUTION Most products are marketed primarily through the Company's sales organization, although in some regions, more emphasis is placed on sales through distributors. The Company has a diverse worldwide network which markets and distributes the Company's brands to customers globally. This network consists of the Company's sales and marketing organization partnering with distributors, independent retailers, cooperatives and agents throughout the world. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The Company s businesses differentially manage their respective intellectual property estates to support Company strategic priorities, which can include leveraging intellectual property within and across product lines. Trade Secrets: Trade secrets are an important part of the Company's intellectual property. Many of the processes used to make products are kept as trade secrets which, from time to time, may be licensed to third parties. DuPont vigilantly protects all of its intellectual property including its trade secrets. When the Company discovers that its trade secrets have been unlawfully taken, it reports the matter to governmental authorities for investigation and potential criminal action, as appropriate. In addition, the Company takes measures to mitigate any potential impact, which may include civil actions seeking redress, restitution and/or damages based on loss to the Company and/or unjust enrichment. 12 Patents: The Company applies for and obtains patents in many countries, including the U.S., and has access to a large patent portfolio, both owned and licensed. DuPont s rights under these patents and licenses, as well as the products made and sold under them, are important to the Company in the aggregate. The Company considers various intellectual property protections and strategic business priorities when deciding whether to apply for or maintain a patent. The protection afforded by patents varies based on country, scope of individual patent coverage, as well as the availability of legal remedies in each country and type of patent protection. The term of these patents is approximately twenty years from the filing date in general, but varies depending on country and type of patent protection. DuPont's significant patent estate may be leveraged to align with the Company s strategic priorities within and across product lines. At December 31, 2021, the Company owned about 15,000 patents and patent applications globally. Approximately 75% of the Company s patent estate has a remaining term of more than 5 years. Trademarks: The Company owns or licenses many trademarks that have significant recognition at the consumer retail level and/or the product line to product line level. Ownership rights in trademarks do not expire if the trademarks are continued in use and properly protected. ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) DuPont s purpose is to empower the world with the essential innovations to thrive. The C