Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 63 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 63 Item 9B. Other Information 63 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 64 Item 11. Executive Compensation 64 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 64 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 64 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 64 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 65 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 67 SIGNATURES 68 3 Table of Contents DuPont de Nemours, Inc. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as otherwise noted by the context, the terms "DuPont" or "Company" used herein mean DuPont de Nemours, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont Inc. changed its registered name to DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ( DuPont ) (for certain events prior to June 1, 2019, the Company may be referred to as DowDuPont). Beginning on June 3, 2019, the Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "DD". On April 1, 2019, the Company completed the separation of its materials science business into a separate and independent public company by way of a distribution of Dow Inc. ( Dow ) through a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Dow s common stock (the Dow Distribution ). On June 1, 2019, the Company completed the separation of its agriculture business into a separate and independent public company by way of a distribution of Corteva, Inc. ( Corteva ) through a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Corteva s common stock (the Corteva Distribution ). Following the Corteva Distribution, DuPont holds the specialty products business as continuing operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto present the financial position of DuPont's continuing operations as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 and the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. The cash flows and comprehensive income related to Dow and Corteva have not been segregated and are included, as applicable, in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, respectively, for all periods presented. On December 15, 2019, DuPont and International Flavors Fragrances Inc. ("IFF") announced entry into definitive agreements to combine DuPont s Nutrition Biosciences business (the "N B Business") with IFF in a transaction that would result in IFF issuing shares to DuPont shareholders. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2021, subject to approval by IFF shareholders and other customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and receipt by DuPont of an opinion of tax counsel. DuPont TM and all products, unless otherwise noted, denoted with TM , SM or are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks of affiliates of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This communication contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In this context, forward-looking statements often address expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," "will," "would," "target," and similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words. Forward-looking statements address matters that are, to varying degrees, uncertain and subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, many of which that are beyond DuPont's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results. Some of the important factors that could cause DuPont's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) the parties ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the proposed transaction with IFF; changes in relevant tax and other laws, (ii) failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, approval of IFF s shareholders, anticipated tax treatment or any required financing or to satisfy any of the other conditions to the proposed transaction with IFF, (iii) the possibility that unforeseen liabilities, future capital expenditures, revenues, expenses, earnings, synergies, economic performance, indebtedness, financial condition, losses, future prospects, business and management strategies that could impact the value, timing or pursuit of the proposed transaction with IFF, (iv) risks and costs and pursuit and/or implementation of the separation of the N B Business, including timing anticipated to complete the separation, any changes to the configuration of businesses included in the separation if implemented, (v) risks and costs related to the Dow Distribution and the Corteva Distribution (together, the Distributions ) including (a) with respect to achieving all expected benefits from the Distributions; (b) the incurrence of significant costs in connection with the Distributions, including costs to service debt incurred by the Company to establish the relative credit profiles of Corteva, Dow and DuPont and increased costs related to supply, service and other arrangements that, prior to the Dow Distribution, were between entities under the common control of DuPont; (c) indemnification of certain legacy liabilities of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("Historical EID") in connection with the Corteva Distribution; and (d) potential liability arising from fraudulent conveyance and similar laws in connection with the Distributions; (vi) failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio changes, including meeting conditions under the Letter Agreement entered in connection with the Corteva Distribution, related to the transfer of certain levels of assets and businesses; (vii) uncertainty as to the long-term value of DuPont common stock; (viii) potential inability or reduced access to the capital markets or increased cost of borrowings, including as a result of a 4 Table of Contents credit rating downgrade and (ix) other risks to DuPont's business, operations and results of operations including from: failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; ability, cost and impact on business operations, including the supply chain, of responding to changes in market acceptance, rules, regulations and policies and failure to respond to such changes; outcome of significant litigation, environmental matters and other commitments and contingencies; failure to appropriately manage process safety and product stewardship issues; global economic and capital market conditions, including the continued availability of capital and financing, as well as inflation, interest and currency exchange rates; changes in political conditions, including tariffs, trade disputes and retaliatory actions; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; the availability of and fluctuations in the cost of energy and raw materials; business or supply disruption, including in connection with the Distributions; ability to effectively manage costs as the company s portfolio evolves; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, natural disasters, weather events and patterns, and global health risks and pandemics, which could result in a significant operational event for DuPont, adversely impact demand or production; ability to discover, develop and protect new technologies and to protect and enforce DuPont's intellectual property rights; unpredictability and severity of catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or outbreak of war or hostilities, as well as management's response to any of the aforementioned factors. These risks are and will be more fully discussed in DuPont's current, quarterly and annual reports and other filings made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, in each case, as may be amended from time to time in future filings with the SEC. While the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements. Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on DuPont s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, credit rating or liquidity. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. DuPont assumes no obligation to publicly provide revisions or updates to any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, should circumstances change, except as otherwise required by securities and other applicable laws. A detailed discussion of some of the significant risks and uncertainties which may cause results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section titled Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). 5 Table of Contents DuPont de Nemours, Inc. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS DuPont is a Delaware corporation formed in 2015 (formerly, DowDuPont Inc.), for the purpose of effecting an all-stock merger of equals transactions between The Dow Chemical Company ("Historical Dow") and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company ("Historical EID"). Effective August 31, 2017, pursuant to the merger of equals transaction contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017 ("DWDP Merger Agreement"), Historical Dow and Historical EID each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont Inc. ("DowDuPont") and, as a result, Historical Dow and Historical EID became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the "Merger"). Prior to the Merger, DowDuPont did not conduct any business activities other than those required for its formation and matters contemplated by the DWDP Merger Agreement. For purposes of DowDuPont's financial statement presentation, Historical Dow was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the Merger and Historical EID's assets and liabilities are reflected at fair value as of the Merger Effectiveness Time. The financial statements of Historical Dow for periods prior to the Merger are considered to be the historical financial statements of the Company. Effective as of 5:00 p.m. on April 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the separation of its materials science business into a separate and independent public company by way of a distribution of Dow through a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Dow s common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Dow Common Stock ), to holders of the Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the DowDuPont common stock ), as of the close of business on March 21, 2019 (the Dow Distribution ). Effective as of 12:01 a.m. on June 1, 2019, DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (formerly known as DowDuPont Inc.), completed the separation of its agriculture business into a separate and independent public company by way of a distribution of Corteva through a pro rata dividend in-kind of all of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Corteva s common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Corteva Common Stock ), to holders of the Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, as of the close of business on May 24, 2019 (the Corteva Distribution and, together with the Dow Distribution, the Distributions ). Following the Corteva Distribution, the Company holds the specialty products business. On June 1, 2019, DowDuPont changed its registered name from "DowDuPont Inc." to "DuPont de Nemours, Inc." doing business as "DuPont" (the "Company"). Beginning on June 3, 2019, the Company's common stock is traded on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "DD". Today, DuPont is a global innovation leader with technology-based materials, ingredients and solutions that help transform industries and everyday life by applying diverse science and expertise to help customers advance their best ideas and deliver essential innovations in key markets including electronics, transportation, building and construction, health and wellness, food and worker safety. The Company had approximately 35,000 employees as of December 31, 2019. The Company has subsidiaries in about 70 countries worldwide and manufacturing operations in about 40 countries. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on the location of the Company's sales and property. On December 15, 2019, DuPont and Nutrition Biosciences, Inc. (presently a wholly owned subsidiary of DuPont) ( N B Inc. ), entered into definitive agreements, including the Merger Agreement, with IFF, and Neptune Merger Sub I Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of IFF) ( Merger Sub I ), pursuant to which and subject to the terms and conditions therein, (1) DuPont will transfer its Nutrition and Biosciences business (the "N B Business") to N B Inc. (the Contribution ), (2) DuPont will distribute to its stockholders all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of N B Inc. (the N B Inc. Common Stock ) held by DuPont by way of either (at DuPont s option) a pro rata dividend or an exchange offer (the N B Distribution ), and (3) Merger Sub I will merge with and into N B Inc., with N B Inc. as the surviving corporation (the N B Merger and collectively with the Contribution and the N B Distribution, the "Proposed N B Transaction"). As a result of the N B Merger, the existing shares of N B Inc. will be automatically converted into the right to receive a number of shares of IFF common stock, par value $0.125 per share ( IFF Common Stock ). When the N B Merger is completed, holders of DuPont s common stock ( DuPont Common Stock ) will own approximately 55.4% of the outstanding shares of IFF on a fully diluted basis. The actual value of IFF Common Stock received by DuPont stockholders will depend on the value of such shares at the time the transaction closes, and DuPont stockholders may receive more or less than the value announced at the time of the signing of the definitive agreements. In addition, as part of the proposed transaction, DuPont will receive a one-time $7.3 billion cash payment, subject to adjustment, (the Special Cash Payment ). The Special Cash Payment is subject to adjustment due to, among other things, variances in net working capital, and, therefore, could be less or more than anticipated. 6 Table of Contents At DuPont's election (subject to certain restrictions), the N B Distribution may be effected by means of a pro rata dividend in a spin-off transaction or an exchange offer for outstanding DuPont shares in a split-off transaction (or a combination of both). If DuPont elects a spin-off transaction, all DuPont stockholders will participate on a pro rata basis. If DuPont elects a split-off, then it will conduct an exchange offer and all DuPont stockholders will elect whether to exchange DuPont shares for shares of N B Inc. (subject to any terms and conditions announced by DuPont with respect thereto). However, to the extent the split-off does not result in the distribution of all of the outstanding shares of N B Inc., the additional shares of N B Inc. still held by DuPont would be distributed in a spin-off transaction on a pro rata basis to all DuPont stockholders. The Proposed N B Transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2021, subject to approval by IFF stockholders and other customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and receipt by DuPont of an opinion of tax counsel. Basis of Presentation The Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report present the financial position of DuPont as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 and the results of operations of DuPont for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 giving effect to the Distributions, with the historical financial results of Dow and Corteva reflected as discontinued operations. The cash flows and comprehensive income related to Dow and Corteva have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, respectively, for all periods presented. Unless otherwise indicated, the information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements refer only to DuPont's continuing operations and do not include discussion of balances or activity of Dow or Corteva. SEGMENT INFORMATION DuPont s worldwide operations are managed through global businesses, which are reported in five reportable segments: Electronics Imaging; Nutrition Biosciences; Transportation Industrial; Safety Construction, and Non-Core. Effective June 1, 2019, DuPont changed its management and reporting structure resulting in the creation of a new Non-Core segment ("Second Quarter Segment Realignment"). These changes resulted in the following being realigned to Non-Core: Photovoltaic and Advanced Materials business unit (including the HSC Group joint ventures: DC HSC Holdings LLC and Hemlock Semiconductor L.L.C) from the Electronics Imaging segment; Biomaterials and Clean Technologies business units from the Nutrition Biosciences segment; DuPont Teijin Films joint venture from the Transportation Industrial (formerly Transportation Advanced Polymers) segment; and Sustainable Solutions business unit from the Safety Construction segment. In addition, the following changes have occurred: Consolidation of the Nutrition Health business with the Industrial Biosciences business within the Nutrition Biosciences reportable segment. Previously, Nutrition Health and Industrial Biosciences were separate operating segments which did not meet the quantitative thresholds. Pre-commercial activities related to the Biomaterials business unit was realigned from Corporate to Non-Core, with the remaining pre-commercial activities realigned to the Nutrition Biosciences segment. In addition to the Second Quarter Segment Realignment, effective October 1, 2019, Electronics Imaging realigned its product lines as Image Solutions, Interconnect Solutions and Semiconductor Technologies. See Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company s operating segments. 7 Table of Contents ELECTRONICS IMAGING Electronics Imaging is a leading global supplier of differentiated materials and systems for a broad range of consumer electronics including mobile devices, television monitors, personal computers and electronics used in a variety of industries. The segment is a leading supplier of key materials for the manufacturing of materials and printing systems to the advanced printing industry, and of materials and solutions for the fabrication of semiconductors and integrated circuits addressing both front-end and back-end of the manufacturing process. The segment offers the broadest portfolio of semiconductor and advanced packaging materials in the market, providing chemical mechanical planarization ("CMP") pads and slurries, photoresists and advanced coatings for lithography, removers and cleaners; dielectric and metallization solutions for back-end-of-line advanced chip packaging; along with silicones for light emitting diode ("LED") packaging and semiconductor applications. Electronics Imaging also provides permanent and process chemistries for the fabrication of printed circuit boards to include laminates and substrates, electroless and electrolytic metallization solutions, as well as patterning solutions and materials and innovative metallization processes for metal finishing, decorative, and industrial applications. Electronics Imaging is a leading global supplier in the packaging graphics industry providing flexographic printing inks, photopolymer plates, and platemaking systems used in digital printing applications for textile, commercial and home-office use. In addition, the segment provides cutting-edge materials for the manufacturing of advanced-matrix organic light emitting diode ("AMOLED") applications. Electronics Imaging addresses these markets by leveraging a strong science and technology base to provide the critical materials and solutions for creating a more connected and digital world. Divestitures On June 30, 2017, Historical Dow sold its ownership interest in the SKC Haas Display Films group of companies. In September 2019, the Company announced an agreement to sell its compound semiconductor solutions business, a part of the Electronics Imaging segment, to SK Siltron for approximately $450 million. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2020, pending satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approval. Details on Electronics Imaging's 2019 net sales, by major product line and geographic region, are as follows: 8 Table of Contents Products Major applications/market segments and technologies are listed below by major product line: Major Product Line Applications/Market Segments Technologies Image Solutions Flexographic printing and inkjet printing, display materials for mobile devices Flexographic printing plates and materials, digital inks, OLED and other display process materials. Interconnect Solutions Printed circuit board, electronic and industrial finishing Circuit packaging film and laminate materials, interconnect metallization and imaging process chemistries, dry film laminates, polyimide films, and flexible circuit materials Semiconductor Technologies Integrated circuit fabrication for memory and logic semiconductors CMP consumables, photolithography materials, semiconductor fabrication materials, fabrication cleaners and removers, advanced chip packaging materials and thermal management materials and LED encapsuants Key Raw Materials The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Electronics Imaging segment include: acrylic monomers, p-acetoxystyrene, monomers, pigments and dyes, styrenic block copolymers, copper foil, diglycolamine, dimethylacetamide, hydroxylamine, oxydianiline, palladium metal, photoactive compounds, polyester and other polymer films, polyurethane resins and pyromellitic dianhydride. Competitors Electronics Imaging's competitors include many large multinational firms as well as a number of regional and local competitors. Key competitors include 3M, Cabot Microsystems, Element Solutions, Entegris, Flint Group, JSR Micro, Merck KGaA, Shin-Etsu and Sun Chemical. Current and Future Investments In March 2019, the Company announced plans to invest more than $200 million in its Electronics Imaging segment to build new production assets at its Circleville, Ohio, plant. The new assets will expand production of KAPTON polyimide film and PYRALUX flexible circuit materials to meet growing market demand. At December 31, 2019, the Company had spent approximately $40 million since project start date. The Company anticipates that the new assets will be operational by the second half of 2021. 9 Table of Contents NUTRITION BIOSCIENCES Nutrition Biosciences is an innovation-driven and customer-focused segment that provides solutions for the global food and beverage, dietary supplements, pharma, home and personal care, energy and animal nutrition markets. The segment is one of the world s largest producers of specialty ingredients, developing and manufacturing solutions for the global food and beverage, dietary supplements and pharmaceutical markets. Its innovative and broad portfolio of natural-based ingredients marketed under the DANISCO brand serves to improve health and nutrition as well as taste and texture in a wide range of dairy, beverage, bakery and dietary supplement applications. Its probiotics portfolio, including the HOWARU brand, is world famous for its extensively documented strains that deliver consumers benefits in digestive and immune health. In addition to serving the global food and beverage market, the segment is one of the world's largest producers of cellulosics and alginates based pharma excipients, which are used to improve the functionality and delivery of pharmaceuticals, and enabling the development of more effective pharma solutions. Additionally, the segment is an industry pioneer and innovator that works with customers to improve the performance, productivity and sustainability of their products and processes, through differentiated technology in ingredients applications, fermentation, biotechnology, chemistry and manufacturing process excellence. The segment offers better, cleaner and safer solutions to a wide range of industries including food beverages, dietary supplements, animal nutrition, biofuels, cleaning, personal care, pharmaceutical, and oil and gas. On March 31, 2017, Historical EID entered into an agreement with FMC, under which and effective upon the closing of the transaction on November 1, 2017, FMC acquired certain Historical EID agriculture assets (the Divested Ag Business ) as required to obtain approval of the European Commission for the Merger. As part of the FMC transaction, Historical EID agreed to acquire certain assets relating to FMC's Health Nutrition ( H N ) Business. The integration of the H N Business together with Historical Dow s Pharma Food Solutions business into Nutrition Biosciences, makes the segment a world leader in the oral dosage pharmaceutical excipients market. See further discussion of the H N Business acquisition in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Divestitures In June 2019, the Company sold the natural colors business, a H N Business. In October 2018, Historical EID completed the sale of its heritage alginates business to JRS Group. The sale of the alginates business was a requirement set out by the European Commission ("EC") upon its conditional approval of the acquisition of the H N Business from FMC. The Company remains active in the alginates market with the heritage H N Business alginates portfolio. In February 2017, the Company completed the sale of its global food safety diagnostic business to Hygiena LLC. Acquisitions On November 1, 2017, the Company acquired the H N Business from FMC. See further discussion of the H N Business acquisition in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Details on Nutrition Biosciences' 2019 net sales, by product line and geographic region, are as follows: 10 Table of Contents Products Major applications and products are listed below by product line: Product Line Applications / Market Segments Major Products Food Beverage Food and beverage, dietary supplements, infant nutrition, sports nutrition Major products include probiotics, soy protein, fibers, cultures, antioxidants, antimicrobials, emulsifiers, texturants, ingredient systems and sweeteners Health Biosciences Animal nutrition, detergents, biofuels production, food and beverage, phosphate fertilizer and microbial control solutions for oil and gas production, home and personal care, and other industrial preservation markets Enzymes, yeast, betaine, direct-fed microbials, SILVADUR antimicrobial, glutaraldehyde, phenoxyethanol Pharma Solutions Oral dosage pharmaceuticals excipients Cellulosic and other technologies help bring new classes of medicines to market. Notable technologies include excipients and active pharmaceutical ingredients, solubility enhancers, reagents, granulation and binders, as well as coatings and controlled release Key Raw Materials The major commodities, raw materials and supplies for the Nutrition Biosciences segment include: gelatin, glycols, cellulose processed grains (including dextrose and glucose), guar, locust bean gum, organic vegetable oils, peels, saccharides, seaweed, soybeans, and sugars and yeasts. Competitors Nutrition Biosciences' competitors include many large multinational nutrition and biosciences companies as well as a number of regional and local competitors. Key competitors include Chr. Hansen, Corbion, CP Kelco, Croda, Kerry, Lonza, Novozymes, Royal DSM and Tate Lyle. Current and Future Investments In November 2016, Historical EID announced an investment to expand probiotics production capacity in the United States. The announced investment is the second phase of a broader probiotics expansion project. Phase one was complete as of the end of 2017 and increased capacity by about 30 percent. The second phase represented an investment of approximately $100 million and increased DuPont's probiotics production capacity by an a