Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 38 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 85 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11. Executive Compensation 86 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 86 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 86 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 86 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 87 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 89 Signatures 90 1 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements about us and our industry that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including statements regarding our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipate, believe, contemplate, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, project, should, target, will or would or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: &#x2022; our expectations regarding our revenue, expenses and other operating results; &#x2022; our ability to acquire new customers and successfully retain existing customers; &#x2022; our ability to increase usage of our platform and upsell and cross sell additional products; &#x2022; our ability to achieve or sustain our profitability; &#x2022; future investments in our business, our anticipated capital expenditures and our estimates regarding our capital requirements; &#x2022; the costs and success of our sales and marketing efforts, and our ability to promote our brand; &#x2022; our reliance on key personnel and our ability to identify, recruit and retain skilled personnel; &#x2022; our ability to effectively manage our growth, including any international expansion; &#x2022; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and any costs associated therewith; &#x2022; our ability to compete effectively with existing competitors and new market entrants; and &#x2022; the growth rates of the markets in which we compete. You should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in under the header Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained herein. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references in this report to the terms Datadog , the Company, we, our and us refer to Datadog, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Datadog and other trade names and trademarks of ours appearing in this report are our property. This report contains trade names and trademarks of other companies, which are the property of their respective owners. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. We may announce material business and financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (www.investors.datadoghq.com). We therefore encourage investors and others interested in Datadog to review the information that we make available on our website, in addition to following our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, webcasts, press releases and conference calls. 2 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Datadog is the monitoring and analytics platform for developers, IT operations teams and business users in the cloud age. Our SaaS platform integrates and automates infrastructure monitoring, application performance monitoring and log management to provide unified, real-time observability of our customers entire technology stack. Datadog is used by organizations of all sizes and across a wide range of industries to enable digital transformation and cloud migration, drive collaboration among development, operations and business teams, accelerate time to market for applications, reduce time to problem resolution, understand user behavior and track key business metrics. Software applications are transforming how organizations engage with customers and operate their businesses. Companies across all industries are re-platforming their businesses to cloud infrastructures to enable this digital transformation. Historically, engineering teams have been siloed, making the development of next generation applications on dynamic cloud environments challenging. We started Datadog to break this model and facilitate collaboration among development and operations teams, enabling the adoption of DevOps practices. Since then we have continuously pushed to unify separate tools into an integrated monitoring and analytics platform, readily available to everyone who cares about applications and their impact on business. From our founding goal of breaking down silos between Dev and Ops, we set out in 2010 to build a real-time data integration platform to turn chaos from disparate sources into digestible and actionable insights. In 2012, we launched our first use case with infrastructure monitoring, purpose-built to handle increasingly ephemeral cloud-native architectures. This enabled us to be deployed on our customers entire cloud IT environments and gave our product broad usage across Dev, Ops and business teams, in turn allowing us to address a bigger set of challenges through our platform. In 2017 we launched our Application Performance Monitoring, or APM, product, designed to be broadly deployed in very distributed, micro-services architectures. In 2018, we were the first to combine the three pillars of observability with the introduction of our log management product. To allow for full-stack observability, in 2019, we launched user experience monitoring and network performance monitoring, and announced the addition of security monitoring to our platform. Today, we offer end-to-end monitoring and analytics, powered by a common data model that is extensible for potential new use cases. Our proprietary platform combines the power of metrics, traces and logs to provide a unified view of infrastructure and application performance and the real-time events impacting this performance. Datadog is designed to be cloud agnostic and easy to deploy, with hundreds of out-of-the-box integrations, a built-in understanding of modern technology stacks and endless customizability. Customers can deploy our platform across their entire infrastructure, making it ubiquitous and a daily part of the lives of developers, operations engineers and business leaders. We believe that our platform currently addresses a significant portion of the IT Operations Management market. According to Gartner, the IT Operations Management market represents a $37 billion opportunity in 2023. We believe a large portion of this spend is for legacy on-premise and private cloud environments but does not fully include the opportunity in modern multi-cloud and hybrid cloud environments. Our platform is designed to address both legacy and modern environments. We employ a land-and-expand business model centered around offering products that are easy to adopt and have a very short time to value. Our customers can expand their footprint with us on a self-service basis. Our customers often significantly increase their usage of the products they initially buy from us and expand their usage to other products we offer on our platform. We grow with our customers as they expand their workloads in the public and private cloud. 3 Our Solution and Key Strengths Datadog was founded on the premise that the old model of siloed developers and IT operations engineers is broken, and that legacy tools used for monitoring static on-premise architectures do not work in modern cloud or hybrid environments. Datadog s cloud-native platform enables development and operations teams to collaborate, quickly build and improve applications, and drive business performance. Empowered by our out-of-the box functionality and simple, self-service installation, our customers are able to rapidly deploy our platform to provide application- and infrastructure-wide visibility, often within minutes. &#x2022; Built for dynamic cloud infrastructures . Our innovative platform was born in the cloud and was built to work with ephemeral cloud technologies such as microservices, containers and serverless computing. Our data model was built to work at cloud scale with highly dynamic data sets and processes more than 10 trillion events a day. &#x2022; Simple but not simplistic . Our platform is easy-to-use with out-of-the-box integrations, customizable drag-and-drop dashboards, real-time visualization and prioritized alerting. The platform is deployed in a self-service installation process within minutes, allowing new users to quickly derive value without any specialized training or heavy implementation or customization. It is highly extensible across a wide array of use cases to a broad set of developers, operations engineers and business users. As a result, our platform is integral to business operations and used every day, and our users find increasing value in the solution over time. &#x2022; Integrated data platform . We were the first to combine the three pillars of observability - metrics, traces, and logs - with the introduction of our log management solution in 2018. Today, our platform combines infrastructure monitoring, application performance monitoring, log management, user experience monitoring, and network performance monitoring in one integrated data platform. This approach increases efficiency by reducing both the expense and friction of attempting to glean insights from disparate systems. We are able to provide a unified view across the IT stack, including infrastructure and application performance, as well as the real-time events impacting performance. Each of our products is integrated and taken together provide the ability to view metrics, traces and logs side-by-side and perform correlation analysis. &#x2022; Built for collaboration . Our platform was built to break down the silos between developers and operations teams in order to help organizations adopt DevOps practices and improve overall business performance. We provide development and operations teams with a common set of tools to develop a joint understanding of application performance and shared insights into the infrastructure supporting the applications. Additionally, our customizable and interactive dashboards can be shared with business teams to provide them with real-time actionable insights. &#x2022; Cloud agnostic . Our platform is designed to be deployable across all environments, including public cloud, private cloud, on-premise and multi-cloud hybrid environments, allowing organizations to diversify their infrastructure and reduce single vendor dependence. &#x2022; Ubiquitous . Datadog is frequently deployed across a customer s entire infrastructure, making it ubiquitous. Compared to legacy systems that are often used only by a few users in an organization s IT operations team, Datadog is a daily part of the lives of developers, operations engineers and business leaders. For example, a leading communications software technology provider has over 1,000 Datadog users, representing about half of the company s total employee count and greater than the total number of the company s engineers. Further, a Fortune 500 financial services firm has over 6,000 Datadog users. &#x2022; Integrates with our customers complex environments . We enable development and operations teams to harness the full spectrum of SaaS and open source tools. We have over 400 out-of-the-box integrations with technologies to provide significant value to our customers without the need for professional services. Our integrations provide for comprehensive data point aggregation and consistent, up-to-date, high-quality customer experiences across heterogeneous IT environments as they are fully maintained by Datadog. &#x2022; Powered by robust analytics and machine-learning . Our platform ingests massive amounts of data into our unified data warehouse. We develop actionable insights using our advanced analytics capabilities. Our platform features machine learning that can cross-correlate metrics, traces and logs to identify outliers and notify users of potential anomalies before they impact the business. &#x2022; Scalable . Our SaaS platform is highly scalable and is delivered through the cloud. Our platform is massively scalable currently monitoring more than 10 trillion events a day and millions of servers and containers at any point in time. We offer secure, easily accessible data retention at full granularity for extensive periods of time, which can provide customers with a complete view of their historical data. 4 Key Benefits to Our Customers Organizations of all sizes, in all industries, both private and public, purchase our products for a variety of use cases. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 10,500 customers in over 100 countries. Our platform provides the following key benefits to our customers: &#x2022; Accelerate digital transformation . We enable customers to take full advantage of the cloud to develop and maintain mission-critical applications with agility and with confidence in the face of increasing business and time pressure and complexity of underlying infrastructure. As a result, our platform helps accelerate innovation cycles, deliver exceptional digital experiences and optimize business performance. &#x2022; Reduce time to problem detection and resolution . Using infrastructure, APM and log data in our unified platform, our customers are able to quickly isolate the root cause of application issues in one place where they otherwise would be required to spend hours trying to investigate using multiple tools. The reduction in mean time to detection and mean time to resolution helps our customers avoid lost revenues and enhance customer experience. &#x2022; Improve agility of development, operations and business teams . We eliminate the historical silos of development and operations teams and provide a platform that enables efficient and agile development through the adoption of DevOps. Our platform enables development and operations teams to collaborate closely with a shared understanding of data and analytics. This helps them develop a joint understanding of application performance and shared insights into the infrastructure supporting the applications. &#x2022; Enable operational efficiency . Our solution is easy to install, which eliminates the need for heavy implementation costs and professional services. We have hundreds of integrations with key technologies, from which our customers can derive significant value, avoiding internal development costs and professional services required to create those integrations. Our customer-centric pricing model is tailored to customers desired usage needs. For example, our log management solution has differentiated pricing for logs indexed versus logs ingested. Our platform empowers customers to better understand the operational needs of their applications and IT environments, enabling greater efficiency in resource allocation and spend on cloud infrastructure. Our Growth Strategies We intend to pursue the following growth strategies: &#x2022; Expand our customer base by acquiring new customers . Our market penetration is low. We believe there is a substantial opportunity to continue to grow our customer base. We intend to drive new customer additions by expanding our sales and marketing efforts in the markets we serve. &#x2022; Expand within our existing customer base through broader deployments, new use cases and new product adoption . Our base of approximately 10,500 customers as of December 31, 2019 represents a significant opportunity for further sales expansion. We plan to continue to increase sales within our existing customer base through increased usage of our platform and the cross selling of additional products. &#x2022; Expand our technology leadership through continued investment and new products . We intend to invest in expanding the functionality of our current platform and adding capabilities that address new market opportunities. We have a history of continued innovation. For example, in 2017 we launched APM, in 2018 we launched log management, and in 2019 we launched user experience monitoring and network performance monitoring, and announced the addition of security monitoring to our platform. &#x2022; Expand our customer base internationally . We believe there is a significant opportunity to continue to expand usage of our platform outside of the United States, as international markets have increased the shift of their IT spend to the cloud. Our Platform Our proprietary platform provides real-time insights into software applications and IT infrastructure performance to enable better user experiences, faster problem detection and resolution and smarter, more impactful business decisions. Our platform is also modular and includes infrastructure monitoring, application performance monitoring, log management, user experience monitoring and network performance monitoring, as well as a range of shared features such as sophisticated dashboards, advanced analytics, collaboration tools and alerting capabilities. Each of our products is fully capable stand-alone so clients can choose to use different capabilities incrementally or deploy many at once. When deployed together, our products automatically enable cross-correlation, which in turn allows customers to gain greater levels of visibility across their infrastructure and applications to more rapidly troubleshoot problems. 5 Our platform is supported by hundreds of integrations to seamlessly aggregate metrics and events across all of the systems and services that power digital businesses. Our easy-to-use platform is deployed through a self-service installation process. U sers can derive value from our platform within minutes without any specialized training or heavy implementation or customization. Customers can easily expand their usage of our platform on a self-serve basis, adding hosts or volumes of data monitored. Our platform is massively scalable currently monitoring more than 10 trillion events a day and millions of servers and containers. The key elements that can be leveraged across our platform: &#x2022; Single Pane of Glass . Our ability to provide a unified source of data enables users to access information from a single platform and easily explore multiple data sources. Through a single dashboard and with a common data framework, users are able to access and explore all of the relevant performance data. Users are able to more quickly assess and resolve their issues without having to toggle between multiple products. &#x2022; Robust, Deep Data Set . Our client-side collection technology relies on installation of a single agent for metrics, traces, and logs, allowing for a simple, seamless deployment experience for the customers. We ingest massive amounts of complex data and normalize it. The volume of data associated with combining infrastructure, APM and log management provides for a dramatically more robust data set than any of the individual data sources would provide on their own. &#x2022; SaaS Platform . Our cloud based multi-tenant SaaS platform allows for real-time ingestion, and analysis of massive amounts of data, without our customers needing to worry about the provisioning, sizing and capacity of their monitoring platform. &#x2022; One Data Model. Every piece of data that is ingested by our platform is consistently tagged with metadata regardless of its type. This allows for different kinds of performance data, such as a log event and an application trace, to be queried together, correlated, alerted on, and visualized in a common user interface. &#x2022; Cross-Correlation . All of our solutions are integrated and work cohesively to provide a deep level of context and insight into what is occurring in a customer s IT environment and power faster trouble-shooting. &#x2022; Out-Of-The-Box, Actionable Insights . From the moment of installation, our platform provides actionable insights through customizable dashboards, predictive analytics, automated correlations, visualizations and alerting. &#x2022; High Accuracy Machine-Learning Capabilities and Predictive Capabilities Powered by the Network Effect . Our multi-tenant cloud platform analyzes massive data sets ingested across our customers and their IT environments. It uses machine learning to predict and identify sources of performance or availability issues that customers share due to dependencies on common service providers or third-party services. &#x2022; 400+ Fully Supported Integrations . We offer more than 400 out-of-the-box integrations including public cloud, private cloud, on-premise hardware, databases and third-party software. &#x2022; Automated Alerts . We offer sophisticated real time alerting capabilities in the platform that detects issues, alerts users, and integrates with their service management systems. Our platform consists of seven products that can be used individually or as a unified solution, including: &#x2022; Infrastructure Monitoring . Our infrastructure monitoring platform provides real-time monitoring of IT infrastructure across public cloud, private cloud and hybrid environments, as well as in containers and serverless architectures, ensuring performance and availability of applications. All infrastructure data is located in one repository with automatic correlation, regardless of environment size or rate of change, to provide a fulsome view of everything that is occurring across the IT ecosystem. &#x2022; Application Performance Monitoring (APM) . APM provides full visibility into the health and functioning of applications regardless of the deployment environment. Distributed tracing across microservices, hosts, containers and serverless computing functions allows our customers to gain deep insights into application performance. In-context correlation of APM traces to logs and infrastructure metrics provides for faster troubleshooting allowing issues to be resolved in minimal time. &#x2022; Log Management . Log management for applications, systems and cloud platforms ingests data, creates indexes and enables querying of logs with visualizations and alerting to ensure immediate insight into any performance issues. Logging Without Limits TM decouples the cost of log ingestion from processing, allowing customers to cost effectively collect a massive volume of logs and selectively process those they need to monitor. 6 &#x2022; User Experience Monitoring. User experience monitoring brings visibility up th e stack to monitor the digital experience of the customer , and is comprised of two products Synthetics and Real User Monitoring , or RUM. Synthetics provides user-experience monitoring of applications and API endpoints via simulated AI-powered user reques ts to track application performance and ensure uptime. RUM provides analysis and visualization of the performance of front - end applications as experienced by all actual users. &#x2022; Network Performance Monitoring. Network Performance Monitoring, or NPM, enables the analysis and visualization of the flow of network traffic in cloud-based or hybrid environments. It allows the mapping of full-stack dependencies, and is fully integrated with the Datadog platform. It is very lightweight, allowing customers to monitor the flow of network traffic without sacrificing performance. &#x2022; Security Monitoring. Currently available in beta, security monitoring allows customers to detect threats in real time and investigate security signals across metrics, traces, and logs. It provides the full engineering organization, including Dev, Ops, and security teams, visibility into common data sources, in order to better operationalize IT security. Sales and Marketing Our sales team is segmented into four revenue-generating areas: an enterprise sales team that sells to large businesses; a high velocity inside-sales team that is focused on acquiring new customers; a customer success team that handles new customer on-boarding and expansions in existing customers; and a partner team that works with resellers, system integrators, referral partners and managed service providers. Each of these teams is further split regionally for geographic coverage across Americas, APAC and EMEA. The sales teams work with marketing to actively pursue leads generated from marketing programs and help take prospective customers through an evaluation and purchase process. We focus our multi-touch marketing efforts on the strength of our product innovation, the value we provide and our domain expertise. We target the development and IT operations community through our marketing activities, using diverse tactics to connect with prospective customers, such as content marketing, email marketing, events, digital advertising, social media, public relations, partner marketing and community initiatives. We offer prospective customers free trials to help them understand the power of our platform. We also host and present at regional, national and global events to engage both customers and prospects, deliver product training, share best practices and foster community. As of December 31, 2019, we had 581 employees in our sales and marketing organization, including sales development, field sales, sales engineering, business development, sales operations, sales strategy, customer success and marketing personnel. We intend to continue to invest in our sales and marketing capabilities to capitalize on our market opportunity. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and delivery of new technologies, features and integrations of our platform, as well as the continued improvement and iteration of our existing products. It is also responsible for operating and scaling our platform including the underlying cloud infrastructure. Our research and development investments seek to drive core technology innovation and bring new products to market. Research and development employees are located primarily in our New York and Paris offices, as well as remotely distributed. Our research and development team consists of our software engineering, product management, development and site reliability engineering teams. As of December 31, 2019, we had 566 employees in our research and development organization. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development capabilities to extend our platform and products. Our Competition The worldwide monitoring and analytics market is and has been highly competitive for decades and is rapidly evolving. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: &#x2022; ability to provide unified, real-time observability of IT environments; &#x2022; ability to operate in dynamic and elastic environments; &#x2022; extensibility across the enterprise, including development, operations and business users; &#x2022; propensity to enable collaboration between development, operations and business users; &#x2022; ability to monitor any combination of public clouds, private clouds, on-premise and multi-cloud hybrids; 7 &#x2022; ability to provide advanced analytics and machine learning; &#x2022; ease of deployment, implementation and use; &#x2022; breadth of offering and key technology integrations; &#x2022; performance, security, scalability and reliability; &#x2022; quality of service and customer satisfaction; &#x2022; total cost of ownership; and &#x2022; brand recognition and reputation. Our unified platform combines functionality from numerous traditional product categories, and hence we compete in each of these categories with different vendors: &#x2022; With respect to on-premise infrastructure monitoring, w