Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 2. Properties 38 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. [Reserved] 40 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 89 Item 9B. Other Information 90 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections . 90 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 92 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 92 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 95 Signatures 96 1 RISK FACTORS SUMMARY Our operations and financial results and an investment in our Class A common stock are subject to various risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are summarized below. You should consider carefully the summary below and the risks and uncertainties described in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below and in Risk Factors are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of such risks or others not specified below or in Risk Factors materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and any related economic downturn could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy, or reductions in information technology spending, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our results of operations. Our recent rapid growth may not be indicative of our future growth. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to forecast our future results of operations. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our business depends on our existing customers purchasing additional subscriptions and products from us and renewing their subscriptions. If our customers do not renew or expand their subscriptions with us, our future operating results would be harmed. If we are unable to attract new customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products. If we or our third-party service providers experience, or are unable to protect against cyber attacks, ransomware, security incidents, or security breaches, or if unauthorized parties otherwise obtain access to our customers data, our data, or our platform and information technology systems, then our solution may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our platform and products may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities or additional expenses. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our products and platform capabilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth, and if we are not able to grow efficiently, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing regulations, or to changing customer needs, requirements or preferences, our platform and products may become less competitive. The markets in which we participate are competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with holders of our Class B common stock, including our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which will limit the ability of holders of our Class A common stock to influence the outcome of important transactions. 2 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements about us and our industry that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including statements regarding our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as anticipate, believe, contemplate, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, potential, predict, project, should, target, will or would or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our expectations regarding our revenue, expenses and other operating results; our ability to acquire new customers and successfully retain existing customers; our ability to increase usage of our platform and upsell and cross sell additional products; our ability to achieve or sustain our profitability; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including variant strains of COVID-19, and responses thereto on our business, financial condition and results of operations; future investments in our business, our anticipated capital expenditures and our estimates regarding our capital requirements; the costs and success of our sales and marketing efforts, and our ability to promote our brand; our reliance on key personnel and our ability to identify, recruit and retain skilled personnel; our ability to effectively manage our growth, including any international expansion; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and any costs associated therewith; our ability to compete effectively with existing competitors and new market entrants; and the growth rates of the markets in which we compete. You should not rely on forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in under the header Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained herein. The results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect new information or the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references in this report to the terms Datadog , the Company, we, our and us refer to Datadog, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Datadog and other trade names and trademarks of ours appearing in this report are our property. This report contains trade names and trademarks of other companies, which are the property of their respective owners. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. We may announce material business and financial information to our investors using our investor relations website (www.investors.datadoghq.com). We therefore encourage investors and others interested in Datadog to review the information that we make available on our website, in addition to following our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, webcasts, press releases and conference calls. 3 MARKET, INDUSTRY AND OTHER DATA The statistical data, estimates and forecasts referenced throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on independent industry publications or other publicly available information, as well as information based on our internal sources. While we believe the industry and market data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are reliable and are based on reasonable assumptions, these data involve many assumptions and limitations, and you are cautioned not to give undue weight to these estimates. We have not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of the data contained in these industry publications and other publicly available information. None of the industry publications referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were prepared on our or on our affiliates behalf or at our expense. The industry in which we operate is subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, that could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in these publications and other publicly available information. The Gartner content referenced herein (the Gartner Content ) represents research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. ( Gartner ), and are not representations of fact. The Gartner Content speaks as of its original publication date (and not as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Content are subject to change without notice. 4 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Datadog is the monitoring and security platform for cloud applications. Our SaaS platform integrates and automates infrastructure monitoring, application performance monitoring and log management to provide unified, real-time observability of our customers entire technology stack. Datadog is used by organizations of all sizes and across a wide range of industries to enable digital transformation and cloud migration, drive collaboration among development, operations, security and business teams, accelerate time to market for applications, reduce time to problem resolution, secure applications and infrastructure, understand user behavior and track key business metrics. Software applications are transforming how organizations engage with customers and operate their businesses. Companies across all industries are re-platforming their businesses to cloud infrastructures to enable this digital transformation. Historically, engineering teams have been siloed, making the development of next generation applications in dynamic cloud environments challenging. We started Datadog to break this model and facilitate collaboration among development and operations teams, enabling the adoption of DevOps practices. Since then we have continuously pushed to unify separate tools into an integrated monitoring and analytics platform, readily available to everyone who cares about applications and their impact on business. We continue to broaden our observability platform. Starting in 2020, we began our efforts in cloud security, and in 2021 expanded into developer use cases. From our founding goal of breaking down silos between Dev and Ops, we set out in 2010 to build a real-time data integration platform to turn chaos from disparate sources into digestible and actionable insights. In 2012, we launched our first use case with infrastructure monitoring, purpose-built to handle increasingly ephemeral cloud-native architectures. This enabled us to be deployed on our customers entire cloud IT environments and gave our product broad usage across Dev, Ops and business teams, in turn allowing us to address a bigger set of challenges through our platform. In 2017 we launched our Application Performance Monitoring, or APM, product, designed to be broadly deployed in very distributed, micro-services architectures. In 2018, we were the first to combine the three pillars of observability with the introduction of our Log Management product. To allow for full-stack observability, in 2019, we launched user Experience Monitoring and Network Performance Monitoring. In 2020, we extended into security with the launch of Security Monitoring to detect threats in real time, as well as launched Continuous Profiler and Incident Management to enhance workflows and collaboration as incidents occur. In 2021, we launched our Cloud Security Platform, including the launches of Cloud Security Posture Management and Cloud Workload Security. We also launched CI Visibility to bring production-level observability to developers. And we launched Network Device Monitoring for physical network devices, and Database Monitoring to improve database performance. Today, we offer end-to-end monitoring and analytics, powered by a common data model that is extensible for use cases in observability, cloud security, and developer observability. Our proprietary platform combines the power of metrics, traces, logs, and other data from over 500 integrations to provide a unified view of infrastructure, application performance and the real-time events impacting this performance. Datadog is designed to be cloud agnostic and easy to deploy, with hundreds of out-of-the-box integrations, a built-in understanding of modern technology stacks and extensive customizations. Customers can deploy our platform across their entire infrastructure, making it ubiquitous and a daily part of the lives of developers, operations engineers and business leaders. We believe that our platform currently addresses a significant portion of the IT Operations Management market. According to Gartner, the IT Operations Management market represents a $53 billion opportunity in 2025. We believe a large portion of this spend is for legacy on-premise and private cloud environments but does not fully include the opportunity in modern multi-cloud and hybrid cloud environments. Our platform is designed to address both legacy and modern environments. We employ a land-and-expand business model centered around offering products that are easy to adopt and have a very short time to value. Our customers can expand their footprint with us on a self-service basis. Our customers often significantly increase their usage of the products they initially buy from us and expand their usage to other products we offer on our platform. We grow with our customers as they expand their workloads in the public and private cloud. Our Solution and Key Strengths Datadog was founded on the premise that the old model of siloed developers and IT operations engineers is broken, and that legacy tools used for monitoring static on-premise architectures do not work in modern cloud or hybrid 5 environments. Datadog s cloud-native platform enables development and operations teams to collaborate, quickly build and improve applications, and drive business performance. Empowered by our out-of-the box functionality and simple, self-service installation, our customers are able to rapidly deploy our platform to provide application- and infrastructure-wide visibility, often within minutes. Built for dynamic cloud infrastructures . Our innovative platform was born in the cloud and was built to work with ephemeral cloud technologies such as microservices, containers and serverless computing. Our data model was built to work at cloud scale with highly dynamic data sets and processes more than 10 trillion events a day. Simple but not simplistic . Our platform is easy-to-use with out-of-the-box integrations, customizable drag-and-drop dashboards, real-time visualization and prioritized alerting. The platform is deployed in a self-service installation process within minutes, allowing new users to quickly derive value without any specialized training or heavy implementation or customization. It is highly extensible across a wide array of use cases to a broad set of developers, operations engineers, security professionals, product managers, product designers, support staff, and business users. As a result, our platform is integral to business operations and used every day, and our users find increasing value in the solution over time. Integrated data platform . We were the first to combine the three pillars of observability - metrics, traces, and logs - with the introduction of our log management solution in 2018. Today, our platform combines infrastructure monitoring, application performance monitoring, log management, user experience monitoring, network performance monitoring, database monitoring, security monitoring, incident management, and developer testing and pipeline monitoring in one integrated data platform. This approach increases efficiency by reducing both the expense and friction of attempting to glean insights from disparate systems. We are able to provide a unified view across the IT stack, including infrastructure and application performance, as well as the real-time events impacting performance. Each of our products is integrated and taken together, they provide the ability to view metrics, traces, logs, and other data side-by-side and to perform correlation analysis. Built for collaboration . Our platform was built to break down the silos between developers and operations teams in order to help organizations adopt DevOps practices and improve overall business performance. We provide development and operations teams with a common set of tools to develop a joint understanding of application performance and shared insights into the infrastructure supporting the applications. Additionally, our customizable and interactive dashboards can be shared with business teams to provide them with real-time actionable insights. Over time, as the use cases for our platform have expanded, the types of users that we can serve and help to collaborate have expanded as well, to include security professionals, support staff, and business users. Cloud agnostic . Our platform is designed to be deployable across all environments, including public cloud, private cloud, on-premise and multi-cloud hybrid environments, allowing organizations to diversify their infrastructure and reduce single vendor dependence. Ubiquitous . Datadog is frequently deployed across a customer s entire infrastructure, making it ubiquitous. Compared to legacy systems that are often used only by a few users in an organization s IT operations team, Datadog is a daily part of the lives of developers, operations engineers and business leaders. Integrates with our customers complex environments . We enable development and operations teams to harness the full spectrum of SaaS and open source tools. We have over 500 out-of-the-box integrations with technologies to provide significant value to our customers without the need for professional services. Our integrations provide for comprehensive data point aggregation and consistent, up-to-date, high-quality customer experiences across heterogeneous IT environments as they are fully maintained by Datadog. Powered by robust analytics and machine-learning . Our platform ingests massive amounts of data into our unified data warehouse. We develop actionable insights using our advanced analytics capabilities. Our platform's Watchdog capabilities feature artificial intelligence and machine learning that can cross-correlate metrics, traces, logs, and other data to identify outliers and notify users of potential anomalies before they impact the business. Scalable . Our SaaS platform is highly scalable and is delivered through the cloud. Our platform is massively scalable, currently monitoring more than tens of trillion events a day and millions of servers and containers at any point in time. We offer secure, easily accessible data retention at full granularity for extensive periods of time, which can provide customers with a complete view of their historical data. 6 Key Benefits to Our Customers Organizations of all sizes, in all industries, both private and public, purchase our products for a variety of use cases. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 18,800 customers in over 100 countries. Our platform provides the following key benefits to our customers: Accelerate digital transformation . We enable customers to take full advantage of the cloud to develop and maintain mission-critical applications with agility and with confidence in the face of increasing business and time pressure and complexity of underlying infrastructure. As a result, our platform helps accelerate innovation cycles, deliver exceptional digital experiences and optimize business performance. Reduce time to problem detection and resolution . Using infrastructure, APM, log data, and data from integrations in our unified platform, our customers are able to quickly isolate the root cause of application issues in one place where they otherwise would be required to spend hours trying to investigate using multiple tools. The reduction in mean time to detection and mean time to resolution helps our customers avoid lost revenues and enhance customer experience. Improve agility of development, operations, security and business teams . We eliminate the historical silos of development and operations teams and provide a platform that enables efficient and agile development through the adoption of DevOps and DevSecOps. Our platform enables development, operations and security teams to collaborate closely with a shared understanding of data and analytics. This helps them develop a joint understanding of application performance and shared insights into the infrastructure supporting the applications. Enable operational efficiency . Our solution is easy to install, which eliminates the need for heavy implementation costs and professional services. We have hundreds of integrations with key technologies, from which our customers can derive significant value, avoiding internal development costs and professional services required to create those integrations. Our customer-centric pricing model is tailored to customers desired usage needs. Our platform empowers customers to better understand the operational needs of their applications and IT environments, enabling greater efficiency in resource allocation and spend on cloud infrastructure. Our Growth Strategies We intend to pursue the following growth strategies: Expand our customer base by acquiring new customers . Our market penetration is low. We believe there is a substantial opportunity to continue to grow our customer base. We intend to drive new customer additions by expanding our sales and marketing efforts in the markets we serve. Expand within our existing customer base through broader deployments, new use cases and new product adoption . Our base of approximately 18,800 customers as of December 31, 2021 represents a significant opportunity for further sales expansion. We plan to continue to increase sales within our existing customer base through increased usage of our platform and the cross selling of additional products. Expand our technology leadership through continued investment and new products . We intend to invest in expanding the functionality of our current platform and adding capabilities that address new market opportunities. We have a history of continued innovation. For example, in 2017 we launched APM, in 2018 we launched Log Management, in 2019 we launched User Experience Monitoring and Network Performance Monitoring, in 2020 we launched Security Monitoring, Continuous Profiler and Incident Management, and in 2021 we launched Cloud Security Posture Management, Cloud Workload Security, Database Monitoring, and Sensitive Data Scanner. Expand our customer base internationally . We believe there is a significant opportunity to continue to expand usage of our platform outside of the United States, as international markets have increased the shift of their IT spend to the cloud. Our Platform Our proprietary platform provides real-time insights into software applications and IT infrastructure performance to enable better user experiences, faster problem detection and resolution and smarter, more impactful business decisions. Our platform is modular and includes infrastructure monitoring, application performance monitoring, log management, user experience monitoring, network performance monitoring, cloud security, developer-focused observability, and incident 7 management, as well as a range of shared features such as sophisticated dashboards, advanced analytics, collaboration tools and alerting capabilities. Each of our products is fully capable stand-alone so clients can choose to use different capabilities incrementally or deploy many at once. When deployed together, our products automatically enable cross-correlation, which in turn allows customers to gain greater levels of visibility across their infrastructure and applications to more rapidly troubleshoot problems. Our platform is supported by hundreds of integrations to seamlessly aggregate metrics and events across all of the systems and services that power digital businesses. Our easy-to-use platform is deployed through a self-service installation process. Users can derive value from our platform within minutes without any specialized training or heavy implementation or customization. Customers can easily expand their usage of our platform on a self-serve basis, adding hosts or volumes of data monitored. Our platform is massively scalable currently monitoring more than tens of trillion events a day and millions of servers and containers. The key elements that can be leveraged across our platform: Single Pane of Glass . Our ability to provide a unified source of data enables users to access information from a single platform and easily explore multiple data sources. Through a single dashboard and with a common data framework, users are able to access and explore all of the relevant performance data. Users are able to more quickly assess and resolve their issues without having to toggle between multiple products. Robust, Deep Data Set . Our client-side collection technology relies on installation of a single agent for metrics, traces, logs, and other data, allowing for a simple, seamless deployment experience for the customers. We ingest massive amounts of complex data and normalize it. The volume of data associated with combining infrastructure, APM and log management provides for a dramatically more robust data set than any of the individual data sources would provide on their own. SaaS Platform . Our cloud based multi-tenant SaaS platform allows for real-time ingestion, and analysis of massive amounts of data, without our customers needing to worry about the provisioning, sizing and capacity of their monitoring platform. One Data Model. Every piece of data that is ingested by our platform is consistently tagged with metadata regardless of its type. This allows for different kinds of performance data, such as a log event and an application trace, to be queried together, correlated, alerted on, and visualized in a common user interface. Cross-Correlation . All of our solutions are integrated and work cohesively to provide a deep level of context and insight into what is occurring in a customer s IT environment and power faster troubleshooting. Out-Of-The-Box, Actionable Insights . From the moment of installation, our platform provides actionable insights through customizable dashboards, predictive analytics, automated correlations, visualizations and alerting. High Accuracy Machine-Learning Capabilities and Predictive Capabilities Powered by the Network Effect . Our multi-tenant cloud platform analyzes massive data sets ingested across our customers and their IT environments. It uses machine learning to predict and identify sources of performance or availability issues that customers share due to dependencies on common service providers or third-party services. 500+ Fully Supported Integrations . We offer more than 500 out-of-the-box integrations including public cloud, private cloud, on-premise hardware, databases and third-party software. Automated Alerts . We offer sophisticated real time alerting capabilities in the platform that detects issues, alerts users, and integrates with their service management systems. Our platform consists of the following products that can be used individually or as 