ITEM 1. BUSINESS 2 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 23 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 23 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 24 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 24 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 24 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 26 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 26 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 26 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 26 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 26 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 26 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 26 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 26 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 27 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 27 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 27 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 27 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 27 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 28 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 28 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance, and business. You can identify forward-looking statements as they do not relate to historical or current facts and by words such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, will, aim, should, plan, forecast, target, guide, project, intend, could, and similar words or expressions. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those that we expected. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, or cautionary statements, and other important information about forward-looking statements are disclosed under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As used herein, the terms John Deere, we, us, our, or the Company refer collectively to Deere Company and its subsidiaries, unless designated or identified otherwise. All amounts are presented in millions of dollars, unless otherwise specified. Products The John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural equipment since 1837. Deere Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958. Our business is managed through the following four business segments: production and precision agriculture (PPA), small agriculture and turf (SAT), construction and forestry (CF), and financial services (John Deere Financial or FS). BUSINESS SEGMENT PRODUCTION AND PRECISION AGRICULTURE SMALL AGRICULTURE AND TURF CONSTRUCTION AND FORESTRY FINANCIAL SERVICES PRODUCTS Large and Certain Mid-Size Tractors Combines Cotton Pickers and Cotton Strippers Sugarcane Harvesters Sugarcane Loaders Soil Preparation, Tillage, Seeding, Application, and Crop Care Equipment Certain Mid-Size, Utility, and Compact Utility Tractors Self-Propelled Forage Harvesters Hay and Forage Equipment Rotary Mowers Utility Vehicles Riding Lawn Equipment and Commercial Mowing Equipment Golf Course Equipment Backhoe Loaders Crawler Dozers and Loaders Skid Steers Scraper Systems Four-Wheel-Drive Loaders and Compact Track Loaders Excavators and Compact Excavators Equipment used in Timber Harvesting Road Building and Road Rehabilitation Equipment Articulated Dump Trucks and Motor Graders Retail Notes Revolving Charge Accounts Wholesale Receivables Leases Extended Warranties CROPS/FUNCTION Corn and Soy Small Grain Cotton Sugarcane Dairy and Livestock Lawn and Property Maintenance Golf Course Maintenance High-Value Crops and Small Acreage Crops Earthmoving Forestry Roadbuilding Financial Solutions 2 Table of Contents Smart Industrial Operating Model and Leap Ambitions Our Smart Industrial Operating Model is based on the following three focus areas: 1. Production Systems . A strategic alignment of products and solutions around our customers production systems. Production systems refer to the series of steps our customers take to execute different tasks, operations, and projects to grow an agricultural product or execute a project. 2. Technology Stack . Investments in technology, as well as research and development, that deliver intelligent solutions to our customers through hardware and devices, embedded software, connectivity, data platforms, and applications. The technology stack leverages these core technologies across the enterprise, including digital capabilities, automation and machine learning, autonomy, and alternative power technologies. The stack has the potential to unlock economic and sustainable value for customers by optimizing jobs, strengthening decision-making, and better connecting the steps of a production system. 3. Lifecycle Solutions . The enterprise integration of our aftermarket and support capabilities to more effectively manage customer equipment, service, and technology needs across the full lifetime of a John Deere product, and with a specific lifecycle solution focus on the ownership experience. This integrated support seeks to enhance customer value through proactive and reactive support, easy access to parts, value-add services, and precision upgrades, regardless of when a customer purchases our equipment. Our Leap Ambitions are a framework designed to boost economic value and sustainability for our customers. The Leap Ambitions set goals to measure the results of our Smart Industrial Operating Model. The ambitions align across our customers production systems, seeking to optimize their operations to deliver better outcomes with fewer resources. The Leap Ambitions framework has three components: (i) size the incremental market opportunity, quantifying the value that can be created; (ii) identify the key actions required to guide investment in digitalization, autonomy, automation, and alternative power technologies; and (iii) define the desired financial and sustainable outcomes we hope to achieve to help investors and stakeholders understand the opportunities that can be unlocked in the future through present investments. Current financial and sustainability goals for the Leap Ambitions relate to workforce safety, agriculture customer outcomes, product circularity, environmental footprint, Solutions as a Service, and equipment operations operating return on sales (OROS). We aim to deliver ongoing value across our product lines by digitally connecting certain equipment we produce, enabling our customers to leverage technology for better economic and more sustainable outcomes in their businesses. We are measuring our customers utilization of our technology, in part, by the number of engaged acres, which is a measure of our PPA and SAT customers use of the John Deere Operations Center (our online farm management system). Engaged acres generally reflects the number of unique acres with at least one operation pass recorded in the Operations Center in the past 12 months. We are also introducing viable alternative power technologies for various product families. Furthermore, we plan to enhance how we deliver value by investing in a Solutions as a Service business model. We also aim to enable our customers to be more sustainable in their production steps. For example, we provide our agricultural customers with technology solutions that help to improve their crops nitrogen use efficiency and increase their crops protection efficiency. Across all segments we believe we will deliver ongoing value by continuing to focus on reducing the CO 2 e emissions from our equipment, including offering hybrid-electric and electric options where feasible in our product families. We also continue to work toward production of a fully autonomous, battery-powered agricultural tractor and have launched several models of electric turf and compact construction products. We also expect to support sustainable outcomes and deliver value through increasing the use of grade management control for earthmoving customers, intelligent boom control for forestry customers, and precision solutions for roadbuilding customers. Equipment Operations Our equipment operations consist of three of our business segments: PPA, SAT, and CF. In fiscal year 2024, PPA generated $20,834 net sales, or 47 percent of equipment operations net sales; SAT generated $10,969 net sales, or 24 percent of equipment operations net sales; and CF generated $12,956 net sales, or 29 percent of equipment operations net sales. Production and Precision Agriculture The PPA segment is committed to meeting the fundamental needs of our customers through a combination of equipment and technology designed to enable our customers to overcome some of their biggest challenges: doing more with less, labor shortages, volatile input costs, and executing jobs in tighter timeframes. This segment defines, develops, and delivers global equipment and technology solutions for production-scale growers of crops like large grains (such as corn and soy), small grains (such as wheat, oats, and barley), cotton, and sugarcane. Equipment manufactured and distributed by the segment includes large and certain mid-size tractors, combines, cotton pickers, cotton strippers, sugarcane harvesters, and related harvesting front-end equipment. In addition, the segment includes tillage, seeding, and application equipment, including sprayers and nutrient management and soil preparation machinery. 3 Table of Contents We continue to invest in the development and production of advanced technology through integrated agricultural solutions and precision technologies across our portfolio of equipment. For example, we have advanced our planting and crop care offerings for corn and soy production systems to better meet customer demands throughout the cultivation cycle. We have developed a differentiated, production system-level approach that helps us understand how customers operate, focusing on their costs, identifying the opportunities for them to reduce inputs, and improving productivity, crop yields, and sustainability. Advancements such as precise global navigation satellite systems technology, advanced connectivity and telematics, on-board sensors and computing power, automation software, digital tools, applications, and analytics provide seamless integration of information designed to improve customer decision-making and job execution. Our advanced telematics systems remotely connect equipment owners, business managers, and dealers to equipment in the field. This connection provides real-time alerts and information about equipment location, utilization, performance, and maintenance to improve productivity and efficiency, as well as to monitor agronomic job execution. In fiscal year 2024, we introduced the new S7 Series combines and updated 9RX tractors, designed to enhance customer value and address key agricultural challenges, such as time constraints caused by variable weather, labor shortages, and rising costs. The S7 Series combines feature advanced automation packages and the 9RX tractors come with new engine options, updated technology packages, and modernized cabins. In addition to John Deere brand names, the table below provides a list of PPA products and their associated brand names: PRODUCT BRAND NAME Sprayers Hagie, Mazzotti Planters and Cultivators Monosem Sprayers and Planters PLA Carbon Fiber Sprayer Booms King Agro Sugarcane Harvester Aftermarket Parts Sunbelt Outdoor Products, Unimil by John Deere Aftermarket Parts for PPA Products Vapormatic, A I, Unimil, Alternatives by John Deere, Frontier Small Agriculture and Turf SAT is committed to meeting the needs of our customers through defining, developing, and delivering global equipment and technology solutions designed to unlock value and sustainability for dairy and livestock producers, high-value crop and small acre crop producers, and turf and utility customers. The segment works to provide product leadership while extending integrated agricultural solutions and precision technologies across its portfolio of equipment to unlock incremental value for customers. Equipment manufactured and distributed by the segment includes certain mid-size, small and utility tractors, and related loaders and attachments; turf and utility equipment, including riding lawn equipment, commercial mowing equipment, golf course equipment, utility vehicles, implements for mowing, tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating, and other residential, commercial, golf, and sports turf care applications; and hay and forage equipment, including self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers, and mowers. SAT equipment is sold primarily through independent retail dealer networks, although the segment also builds turf products for sale by mass retailers, including The Home Depot and Lowe s. Our turf equipment is sold primarily in North American, Western European, and Australian markets. In the small agriculture market, we have introduced autonomous solutions, connectivity capabilities, and a path to electrifying our future by delivering a portfolio that helps current customers meet sustainability goals while finding innovative ways to serve new customers and unlock new markets for mechanization at scale. 4 Table of Contents In addition to John Deere brand names, the table below provides a list of SAT products and their associated brand names: PRODUCT BRAND NAME Equipment Attachments Frontier, Kemper, GreenSystem, Smart Apply Aftermarket Parts for SAT Vapormatic, A I, Alternatives by John Deere, Frontier Agriculture and Turf Operations Smart Industrial Operating Model . As part of our Smart Industrial Operating Model, the segments are aligned around production systems, enabling focus on delivering equipment, technology, and solutions across all the jobs customers execute during a season. Sales and marketing support for both the PPA and SAT segments is organized around four geographic regions: U.S., Canada, and Australia; Latin America and South America; Europe, and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS); and Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. Business Environment . Sales of agricultural equipment are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields, and government policies, including global trade policies, and the amount and timing of government payments. Sales also are influenced by general economic conditions, farmland prices, farmers debt levels and access to financing, interest and exchange rates, agricultural trends, including the production of and demand for renewable fuels, labor availability and costs, energy costs and related policies, tax policies, policies related to climate change, and other input costs associated with farming. Other key factors affecting new agricultural equipment sales are the value, age, and level of used equipment, including tractors, harvesting equipment, self-propelled sprayers, hay and forage equipment, and seeding equipment. Weather and climatic conditions also can affect buying decisions of agricultural equipment purchasers. With challenging economic conditions including higher interest rates and decreasing crop prices, innovations in machinery and technology may have an even greater influence on agricultural equipment purchasing. For example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their operations to increase profits. Large, cost-efficient, highly mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. These customers are increasingly adopting and integrating precision agricultural technologies like guidance, telematics, automation, and data management in their operations. The large-size agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to us. A large proportion of the equipment operations total agricultural equipment sales in the U.S. and Canada, as well as in many countries outside the U.S. and Canada, are comprised of (1) tractors over 100 horsepower, (2) self-propelled combines, cotton pickers, forage harvesters, and sprayers, and (3) seeding equipment. In addition, small tractors are an important part of our global business. Retail sales of lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors, residential and commercial mowers, utility vehicles, and golf and turf equipment are influenced by the housing market, weather conditions, consumer spending patterns, and general economic conditions like unemployment, interest rates, and inflation. Seasonality . Seasonal patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment can result in substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail customers during the year. Seasonal demand is estimated in advance, and equipment is manufactured in anticipation of such demand to achieve efficient utilization of personnel and facilities throughout the year. The PPA and SAT segments can incur substantial seasonal variations in cash flows to finance production and inventory of agricultural and turf equipment. The segments also incur costs to finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal demand. For certain equipment, we offer early order programs, which can include discounts to retail customers who place orders well in advance of the use season. Production schedules are based, in part, on these early order programs; however, during periods of high demand, some factories may still produce after the use season. New combines, cotton harvesting equipment, and sprayers are sold under early order programs with waivers of retail finance charges available to customers who take delivery of machines during non-use seasons. In Australia, Canada, and the U.S., there are typically several used equipment trade-in transactions that take place in connection with most new agricultural equipment sales. To provide support to our dealers in these countries for carrying and ultimately selling this used inventory to retail customers, we provide these dealers with pools of funds awarded as a percentage of the dealer cost for eligible new equipment sales at the time of the new equipment settlement. Retail demand for turf and utility equipment is normally higher in the second and third fiscal quarters. We have pursued a strategy of building and shipping such equipment as close to retail demand as possible. Consequently, to increase asset turnover and reduce the average level of field inventories throughout the year, production and shipment schedules of these product lines are normally proportionately higher in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year, corresponding closely to the seasonal pattern of retail sales. 5 Table of Contents Construction and Forestry Our CF segment is committed to meeting the need for smart and more sustainable solutions to help our customers meet industry challenges, including jobsite safety, a shortage of skilled labor, volatile input costs, reducing rework, maximizing uptime, and minimizing their environmental footprint. To address these challenges and unlock value for customers, we deliver a robust portfolio of construction, roadbuilding, and forestry products with precision technology solutions. Our smart solutions such as SmartWeigh , grade control offerings, machine and system automation, and Operations Center, are designed to allow customers to complete more functions with fewer inputs, reduce rework and guesswork, and transform data into insights to allow for better decisions. Obstacle detection solutions such as SmartDetect supplement operator visibility on the jobsite through a combination of cameras, radar, and machine learning. Additionally, we plan to deliver hybrid-electric and battery electric equipment solutions to help customers reduce tailpipe emissions without sacrificing power and performance. Our primary construction products include excavators, wheel loaders, motor graders, dozers, backhoes, articulated dump trucks, skid steers, compact excavators, and compact track loaders, along with a variety of attachments. Our Wirtgen roadbuilding products include milling machines, pavers, compactors, rollers, crushers, screens, and asphalt plants. Similar to the construction product lineup, the Wirtgen brand also provides a technology stack aimed at allowing customers to make smarter and more sustainable decisions. Technology offerings include Wirtgen Performance Tracker, Mill Assist, Level Pro, V gele Roadscan, Smart Compact, WITOS Paving, Spective Connect, AutoTrac , and John Deere Connected Support . In forestry, our primary products include skidders, wheeled and tracked feller bunchers, forwarders, knuckleboom loaders, wheeled and tracked harvesters, swing machines, and precision forestry technology solutions such as Intelligent Boom Control, TimberMatic maps, and TimberManager . These solutions allow customers to closely track jobsite progress and provide visibility into fleet location, utilization, performance, and maintenance information. We have a number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for construction, earthmoving, roadbuilding, and material handling equipment. These include specially designed rental programs for our dealers and expanded cooperation with major national equipment rental companies. We own retail forestry sales operations in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. In addition, the Wirtgen Group sells its products primarily through company-owned sales and service subsidiaries in many markets worldwide (most significantly in Europe, India, and Australia). In most other geographies, we sell through an independent dealer channel. The prevailing levels of residential, commercial, and public construction, investment in infrastructure, and the condition of the forestry products industry influence retail sales of our construction, roadbuilding, and forestry equipment. General economic conditions, interest rates, the availability of credit, and certain commodity prices, such as those applicable to oil and gas, pulp, paper, and saw logs, also influence sales. In addition to John Deere brand names, the table below provides a list of CF products and their associated brand names: PRODUCT BRAND NAME Roadbuilding Equipment Wirtgen, V gele, Hamm, Kleemann, Benninghoven, Ciber Forestry Attachments Waratah Competition The equipment operations sell products and services in a variety of competitive global and regional markets. The principal competitive factors in all markets include product performance, innovation, quality, distribution, sustainability, customer service, and value. John Deere s brand recognition is a competitive factor in North America and many other parts of the world. The agricultural equipment industry continues to change and is becoming even more competitive through the emergence and global expansion of many competitors. The competitive environment for the agriculture and turf operations includes some global competitors, such as AGCO Corporation, CLAAS KGaA mbH, CNH Industrial N.V., Kubota Tractor Corporation, Mahindra Mahindra Limited, and The Toro Company. These competitors have varying numbers of product lines competing with our products and each has varying degrees of regional focus. Additional competition within the agricultural equipment industry has come from a variety of short-line and specialty manufacturers, as well as local or regional competitors, with differing manufacturing and marketing methods. As technology increasingly enables enhanced productivity in agriculture, the industry is also attracting non-traditional competitors, including technology-focused companies and start-up ventures. 6 Table of Contents Our forestry and roadbuilding businesses operate globally. The construction business operates in competitive markets in North and South America, as well as other global markets. Global competitors of the CF segment include Caterpillar Inc., CNH Industrial N.V., Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiary Doosan Bobcat Inc., Fayat Group, GOMACO Corporation, Hitachi Construction Machinery, Komatsu Ltd., Kubota Tractor Corporation, Ponsse Plc, SANY Group Co., Ltd., Terex, Tigercat Industries Inc., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of Volvo Group AB), and XCMG. Manufacturing and Assembly Common manufacturing processes and techniques are used in producing components for PPA, SAT, and CF equipment sold by us and our dealers. The equipment operations also pursue external sales of selected parts that can be manufactured and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis, including engines, power train components, and electronic components. Considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reductions through improvements in process, optimization of factories, including product line relocation, product design, advanced manufacturing technology, and supply management and logistics, as well as compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure. Our flexible assembly lines, which can accommodate a wide product mix and deliver products in line with changes in dealer and customer demand, support our process improvements. See Item 2 Properties in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about our manufacturing facilities. Research and Development; Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, and Trade Secrets We make substantial investments in research and development to improve the quality and performance of our products, to develop new products and technologies to meet our customers needs, to integrate sustainable solutions into our products, and to comply with government, safety, and engine emissions regulations. Our research and development activities are a vital component in our Smart Industrial Operating Model as customers seek to improve profitability, productivity, and sustainability through technology. Integration of technology into equipment is a persistent market trend, and we continue to capitalize on this market trend. We own a significant number of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and intellectual property licenses related to our products and services and expect the number to grow as we continue to pursue technological innovations. We further our competitive position by filing patent and trademark applications in the U.S. and internationally to protect technology, improvements considered important to the business, and our brand. We believe that, taken together, our rights under these patents and licenses are important to our operations and competitive position but do not regard any of our businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or family of patents. See Risk Factors - Our business could be adversely affected by the infringement or loss of intellectual property rights for more information. Sales and Distribution Through the U.S. and Canada, we market products to approximately 2,050 independent dealer locations. Of these, approximately 1,600 sell agricultural equipment, while approximately 450 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling, roadbuilding, compact construction, and/or forestry equipment. In addition, roadbuilding equipment is sold at approximately 100 roadbuilding-only locations that may carry products that compete with our construction, earthmoving, material handling, and/or forestry equipment. Turf equipment is sold at most John Deere agricultural equipment locations, a few construction, earthmoving, material handling, roadbuilding, and/or forestry equipment locations, and about 280 turf-only locations. In addition, certain lawn and garden and compact construction products are sold through The Home Depot and Lowe s. Outside the U.S. and Canada, our agriculture and turf equipment is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 100 countries. Sales and administrative offices are located in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Singapore, Sweden, South Africa, Spain, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. Turf equipment sales outside the U.S. and Canada occur primarily in Western Europe and Australia. Construction, earthmoving, material handling, and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in Australia, Brazil, Finland, New Zealand, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. Some of these dealers are independently owned while we own others. Roadbuilding equipment is sold directly to retail customers and independent distributors and dealers for resale. The Wirtgen Group operates company-owned sales and service subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, South Africa, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. The equipment operations operate centralized parts distribution warehouses in the U.S., Brazil, and Germany in coordination with regional parts depots and distribution centers in Argentina, Australia, China, India, Mexico, South Africa, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. We market engines, power trains, and electronic components worldwide through select sales branches or directly to regional and global original equipment manufacture