Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments * Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures * PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 35 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure * Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 56 Item 9B. Other Information * PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11. Executive Compensation 58 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 58 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 58 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 60 Signatures 63 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule F-1 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary * *Not applicable. 1 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 ( Annual Report ), and the information and documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report , contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), which statements are subject to considerable risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements other than statements of historical fact contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report . We have attempted to identify forward-looking statements by using words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, should, will, or would, and similar expressions or the negative of these expressions. Specifically, this Annual Report , and the information and documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report , contain forward-looking statements relating to, among other things: the impacts of the COVID-19 global pandemic on our operations, business, sales, and results of operations worldwide; our business, operating, investing, capital allocation, marketing, and financing strategies; the impacts of our ongoing operational system upgrades; the expansion of our brands and product offerings, and changes to the geographic and seasonal mix of our products; changes to our product distribution strategies, including the implementation of our product allocation and segmentation strategies and our decision to exit the warehouse channel for the Sanuk brand; changes in consumer tastes and preferences to our brands and products, and the fashion industry; trends impacting the purchasing behavior of wholesale customers and retail consumers, including those impacting retail and e-commerce businesses; the impact of seasonality and weather on consumer behavior and our results of operations; the impact of our efforts to continue to advance sustainable and socially conscious business operations; expectations relating to the expansion of Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) capabilities; our consolidation of certain distribution center operations; availability of raw materials and manufacturing capacity, and reliability of overseas production and storage; commitments and contingencies, including operating leases and purchase obligations for product and raw materials; the impacts of new or proposed legislation, tariffs, regulatory enforcement actions or legal proceedings; the value of goodwill and other intangible assets, and potential write-downs or impairment charges; changes impacting our tax liability and effective tax rates; repatriation of earnings of non-United States subsidiaries and any related tax impacts; the impact from adoption of recent accounting pronouncements; and overall global economic and political trends, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates and changes in fuel costs. Forward-looking statements represent management s current expectations and predictions about trends affecting our business and industry and are based on information available at the time such statements are made. Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy or completeness. Forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements predicted, assumed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to materially differ from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report , as well as in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You should read this Annual Report , including the information and documents incorporated by reference herein, in its entirety and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from the results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Moreover, new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause our actual future results to be materially different from any results expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable law or the listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements. We qualify all our forward-looking statements with these cautionary statements. 2 Table of Contents PART I References within this Annual Report to Deckers, we, our, us, or the Company refer to Deckers Outdoor Corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries. UGG (UGG), HOKA One One (HOKA), Teva (Teva), Sanuk (Sanuk), Koolaburra (Koolaburra), UGGpure (UGGpure), and UGGplush TM (UGGplush) are some of our trademarks. Other trademarks or trade names appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names within this Annual Report are referred to without the and symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar amounts in Items 1, 1A, 2, and 3 herein are expressed in thousands, except for per share amounts. The defined periods for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 , 2019 , and 2018 are stated herein as year ended or years ended. Item 1. Business General Deckers Outdoor Corporation was incorporated in 1975 under the laws of the State of California and, in 1993, reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. We are a global leader in designing, marketing, and distributing innovative footwear, apparel, and accessories developed for both everyday casual lifestyle use and high-performance activities. We market our products primarily under five proprietary brands: UGG, HOKA, Teva, Sanuk, and Koolaburra. We believe that our products are distinctive and appeal broadly to women, men, and children. We sell our products through quality domestic and international retailers, international distributors, and directly to our consumers both domestically and internationally through our DTC business, which is comprised of our retail stores and e-commerce websites. We seek to differentiate our brands and products by offering diverse lines that emphasize authenticity, functionality, quality, and comfort, and products tailored to a variety of activities, seasons, and demographic groups. All of our products are currently manufactured by independent manufacturers. Recent Developments COVID-19 Global Pandemic . During early calendar year 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic (referred to herein as COVID-19 or the COVID-19 pandemic) spread globally, including throughout the geographic regions in which we operate our business, and where our wholesale customers, retail stores, manufacturers, and suppliers are located. In response to the pandemic, many federal, state, local, and foreign governments have put in place, and others in the future may put in place, travel restrictions, shelter-in-place orders, and similar government orders and restrictions in an attempt to control the spread and mitigate the impact of the disease. Such restrictions or orders have resulted in the mandatory closure of non-essential businesses (including retail stores), increased unemployment rates, social distancing restrictions, reduced tourist activity, work-from-home policies, and other changes that have led to significant disruptions to businesses and global financial markets. The overall impact of the pandemic on our business and future results of operations is highly uncertain and subject to change, and we are not able to accurately predict the magnitude or scope of such impacts at this time. We have experienced a number of material impacts resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2020 and subsequent to our fiscal year end, and have taken certain precautionary measures intended to help minimize the risk to our business, employees, customers, and the communities in which we operate, including the following: All of our Company-owned and operated stores, and nearly all of the retail stores of our wholesale customers and retail partners, were closed during a portion of our fourth fiscal quarter and largely remain closed during the first part of our first fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2020. Our global e-commerce business, including both our owned websites as well as the online presence of our wholesale customers, has remained substantially operational throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, which has been positively impacted by customers migrating to online shopping and has mitigated some of the negative pressure we are experiencing within our wholesale and retail store businesses. We experienced a brief period of disruption at our Moreno Valley, California, distribution center and, while operations have since returned, we are experiencing certain operational and logistical challenges 3 Table of Contents as a result of limited and modified operations resulting from safety protocols and increased social distancing measures. We experienced certain disruptions to sourcing with our third-party manufacturers and, while these disruptions have been mitigated, it is possible there will be disruptions in the future. We have implemented a number of temporary measures to reduce operating expenses and mitigate the adverse impact the pandemic may have on our business and operations. As of March 31, 2020 , we had $649,436 in cash and cash equivalents and $469,473 available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, providing a liquidity position of over $1,000,000. We are temporarily pausing repurchases under our stock repurchase programs due to the disruption and uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and our focus on liquidity and cash management. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report for further information on the impacts to our business and results of operations and associated risks and uncertainties. Refer to Part II, Item 5, Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, for further information on our stock repurchase programs. Products and Brands We currently market our products primarily under five propriety brands, composed of our four primary brands and our other brands, which currently consist of the Koolaburra by UGG brand, as well as other discontinued brands during the periods presented (collectively, Other brands). Collectively, our brands compete across the fashion and casual lifestyle, performance, running and outdoor markets. UGG. The UGG brand is one of the most iconic and recognized brands in our industry, which highlights our successful track record of building niche brands into lifestyle and fashion market leaders. With loyal consumers around the world, the UGG brand has proven to be a highly resilient line of premium footwear, apparel, and accessories with expanded product offerings and a growing global audience that appeals to women, men, and children. We intend to continue diversifying the UGG brand to drive year-round product sales, including through expansion of women s spring and summer footwear, men s products, apparel, home goods, and accessories. The UGG brand is sold both domestically and internationally in key markets including the United States (US), Europe, Asia-Pacific, Canada and Latin America. HOKA . The HOKA brand is an authentic, premium line of year-round performance footwear and apparel that offers enhanced cushioning and inherent stability with minimal weight. Originally designed for ultra-runners, the brand now appeals to athletes around the world, regardless of activity. The HOKA brand is quickly becoming a leading brand within the run specialty wholesale accounts, with strong marketing fueling both domestic and international sales growth. We intend to leverage our domestic specialty strategy to expand and invest in international sales growth. We continue to build product extensions in trail and fitness. The HOKA brand is sold both domestically and internationally in key markets, including the US, Canada, Europe, and Asia-Pacific. Teva. The Teva brand, which pioneered the sport sandal category, is born from the outdoors and rooted in adventure. The Teva brand is a global leader within the sport sandal and modern outdoor lifestyle categories by fueling the expression of freedom. The Teva brand s product line includes sandals, shoes, and boots. Sanuk. The Sanuk brand originated in Southern California surf culture and has emerged into a lifestyle brand with a presence in the relaxed casual shoe and sandal categories. The Sanuk brand s use of unexpected materials and unconventional constructions, combined with its fun and playful branding, are key elements of the brand s identity. Other Brands. O ther brands currently consist of the Koolaburra by UGG brand and a discontinued brand during the prior period presented. The Koolaburra brand is a casual footwear fashion line using sheepskin and other plush materials and is intended to target the value-oriented consumer in order to complement the UGG brand offering. Sales and Distribution US Distribution. In our wholesale channel, we distribute our products in the US through sales representatives, who are organized by account type or geographically and by brand. In addition to our wholesale channel, we also sell products directly to consumers through our DTC business. 4 Table of Contents Currently, our sales force is typically separated by brand, as each brand generally has certain specialty consumers that expect a dedicated sales team with specialized knowledge of our brands product offerings. However, there is some overlap between the sales teams and customers, and we have aligned our brands sales forces to position them for the future success of each of our brands. We distribute products sold in the US through our distribution center in Moreno Valley, California, as well as through a third-party logistics provider (3PL) in Pennsylvania. Our distribution center features a warehouse management system that enables us to efficiently pick and pack products for direct shipment to customers. We completed the closure of our former distribution center in Camarillo, California during fiscal year 2020 and moved all of our Camarillo distribution operations to our Moreno Valley location . Refer to Part I, Item 2, Properties, and Note 7, Leases and Other Commitments, of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV within this Annual Report for further disclosure and discussion. International Distribution. Internationally, in our wholesale channel, we distribute our products through independent distributors and wholly-owned subsidiaries in many regions and countries, including Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America, and Canada, among others. We also sell products internationally, particularly in China, through partner retail stores, which are branded stores that are wholly-owned and operated by third parties. In addition, in certain countries we sell products through our DTC business. For our wholesale and DTC businesses, we distribute our products through a number of distribution centers managed by 3PLs in certain international locations. UGG Wholesale. We sell our UGG brand products primarily through domestic higher-end department stores such as Nordstrom, Dillard s, and Macy s, as well as lifestyle retailers such as Journeys, and online retailers such as Amazon.com, Zappos.com, and Zalando.com. As the retail marketplace continues to evolve to reflect changing consumer preferences, we continually review and evaluate our UGG wholesale distribution and product segmentation approach. HOKA Wholesale. We sell select HOKA brand footwear primarily through full-service domestic specialty retailers and select online retailers, including Fleet Feet, Road Runner Sports, Running Specialty Group, REI, Zappos.com, and Running Warehouse. We expect to expand our HOKA brand wholesale distribution into international markets, including through strategic partners such as Intersport and Sport 2000 in Europe and Xebio Group in Japan. Teva Wholesale. We sell our Teva brand footwear primarily through specialty outdoor retailers, sporting goods and department stores, including REI, Famous Footwear, DSW, Urban Outfitters, Free People, and online retailers such as Amazon.com and Zappos.com. Sanuk Wholesale. We sell our Sanuk brand footwear primarily through domestic independent action sports and outdoor specialty footwear retailers, larger national retail chains, and online retailers, including Journeys, Dillard s, DSW, REI, and online retailers such as Amazon.com and Zappos.com. Other Brands Wholesale. We sell our other brands footwear primarily through department stores and online retailers. Key accounts of the Koolaburra brand include Kohl s, DSW, QVC, and Rack Room Shoes. Direct-to-Consumer. Our DTC business is comprised of our retail stores and e-commerce websites. Our retail stores and websites are largely intertwined and interdependent. In an omni-channel marketplace, we believe many of our consumers interact with both our retail stores and our websites before making purchasing decisions. For example, consumers may feel or try on products in our retail stores and then place an order online later. Conversely, they may initially research products online, and then view inventory availability by store location and make a purchase in store. Some examples that demonstrate the extent to which the sales channels are combined, which are collectively designed to engender brand loyalty while increasing product sales and improving our inventory productivity, include the following: UGG Rewards : We have implemented a consumer loyalty program under which points and awards are earned across the DTC business. Infinite UGG : We provide online shopping access inside retail stores for all SKUs available on our e-commerce websites. 5 Table of Contents Ship from Store : Inventory that is available in our stores but out of stock online can be shipped from our stores. We expect future advancements in this capability will use algorithms to select the optimal fulfillment source. UGG Closet : A limited e-commerce outlet channel that offers an online portal designed to provide an efficient way to close out inventory through direct sales to consumers. Buy Online / Return in-Store : Our consumers can buy online and return products to our retail stores. Click and Collect : Our consumers can buy online and have products delivered to certain retail stores for pick-up. Retail Inventory Online : Our consumers can view specific store location inventory online before visiting the store. Our retail stores enable us to expose consumers to a greater selection of products, directly impact our consumers experience with our brands, and sell our products at retail prices thereby generating larger gross margins. Our retail stores are predominantly UGG brand concept stores and UGG brand outlet stores. Through our outlet stores, we sell some of our discontinued styles from prior seasons, full price in-line products, as well as products made specifically for the outlet stores. As of March 31, 2020 , we had a total of 145 global retail stores, which includes 76 concept stores and 69 outlet stores, and operated our e-commerce business through an aggregate of 28 Company-owned websites and mobile platforms in ten different countries. Refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report for further information on our DTC business. Product Design and Development The design and development functions for all of our brands are performed by a combination of internal design and development staff and outside freelance designers. Our design and development staff work closely with brand management to develop new styles and product lines. Throughout the development process, we have multiple design and development reviews, which we then coordinate with our independent manufacturers. To ensure quality, consistency, and efficiency in our product design and development process, we continually evaluate the availability and cost of raw materials, the capabilities and capacity of our independent manufacturers, and the target retail price of new products. Manufacturing and Supply Chain We outsource the production of our products to independent manufacturers, which are primarily located in Asia. We generally purchase products from our manufacturers on the basis of individual purchase orders or short-term purchase commitments, rather than maintaining long-term purchase commitments, which provides us greater flexibility to adapt to changing consumer preferences, changes in international trade relations, and evolving inventory management requirements. However, we do have long-standing relationships with most of these independent manufacturers, and we may not be able to identify substitute alternative manufacturers to satisfy our desire for such flexibility. We require our independent manufacturers and designated suppliers to adopt our Ethical Supply Chain Supplier Code of Conduct, which specifies that they comply with all local laws and regulations governing human rights, working conditions, and environmental compliance before we are willing to conduct business with them. We also require our manufacturing partners and licensees to comply with our Restricted Substances Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy, Conflict Minerals Policy and Ethical Sourcing and Animal Welfare Policy, as well as other compliance policies and procedures, as a condition to conducting business with us. Production by our independent manufacturers is performed in accordance with our detailed product specifications and rigorous quality control standards. We maintain a buying office in Hong Kong, as well as on-site supervisory offices in China and Vietnam, which collectively serve as a strong link to our independent manufacturers. We believe our strong regional presence enhances our manufacturing processes by providing predictability of material availability, compliance with laws and regulations, and adherence to quality control standards and final design specifications. In addition, we have instituted pre-production, in-line, and post-production inspections to meet or exceed our product 6 Table of Contents quality requirements, as well as the expectations of our consumers. Our quality assurance program includes our own employee on-site inspectors at our independent manufacturers, who oversee the production process and perform quality assurance inspections. We also routinely inspect our products upon arrival at our distribution centers. The majority of the materials and components used in the production of our products by these independent manufacturers are purchased from independent suppliers that we designate. At our direction, our manufacturers currently purchase the majority of the sheepskin used in our products from two tanneries in China, which source their sheepskin primarily from Australia and the United Kingdom (UK). We maintain routine communication with the tanneries to closely monitor the supply of high-quality sheepskin for our projected UGG brand production. To ensure an adequate supply of sheepskin, we forecast our expected usage in advance at a forward price. We also enter into purchasing contracts and other pricing arrangements with certain sheepskin and leather suppliers to manage the supply of sheepskin. We believe current supplies are sufficient to meet our current and anticipated demand, but we continually monitor our supply chain and investigate options to accommodate our expected growth, as well as unexpected supply chain issues. Refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 7, Leases and Other Commitments, of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV within this Annual Report for further information on our minimum purchase commitments. In an effort to partially reduce our dependency on sheepskin, we use a proprietary raw material, UGGpure, which is re-purposed wool woven into a durable backing, and UGGplush, which is re-purposed wool and lyocell woven into a durable backing, in some of our UGG brand products. As part of an ongoing effort to eliminate waste as part of our corporate sustainability efforts, most of the wool in UGGpure and UGGplush is sheared from the hides we are already using in our products. In addition, we are continuing to drive our strategy of introducing counter-seasonal products through category expansion, including the UGG brand s spring and summer products, as well as the year-round performance footwear product offering of the HOKA brand, which we believe will help further reduce our dependency on sheepskin. Excluding sheepskin, UGGpure and UGGplush, we believe that substantially all raw materials and components used to manufacture our products, including wool, rubber, leather, and nylon webbing, are generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. Inventory Management and Product Returns We have an extended design and manufacturing process, which involves the initial design of our products, the purchase of raw materials, the accumulation of inventories, the subsequent sale of the inventories, and the collection of the resulting accounts receivable. This production cycle results in significant liquidity requirements and working capital fluctuations throughout our fiscal year. Because our production cycle typically involves long lead times, which requires us to make manufacturing decisions several months in advance of an anticipated purchasing decision by the consumer, it is challenging for us to estimate and manage our inventory and working capital requirements. We seek to manage our inventory levels by considering existing customer orders, forecasted sales and budgets, and the delivery requirements of our customers. As part of our operating profit improvement plan, we implemented systems and processes designed to improve our product forecasting, inventory control and supply chain management capabilities. In addition, added discipline around SKU productivity, product purchasing decisions, the reduction of production lead times, and the sale of excess inventory through our liquidation channels, are key areas of focus that we expect will further enhance inventory performance. Our practice, and the general practice in our industry, is to offer retail customers the right to return defective or improperly shipped merchandise. Backlog We encourage our wholesale and distributor customers to place a significant portion of orders as pre-season orders, which are typically placed up to 12 months prior to the anticipated shipment date, as well as in-season fill-in orders that can be shipped immediately. We work with our customers through pre-season programs to enable us to better plan our production schedule, inventory, and shipping requirements. We have historically defined backlog as unfilled customer orders from our wholesale customers and distributors as of any particular date, which represent orders expected to be shipped at a future date, some of which are subject to cancellation prior to shipment. Our calculation of backlog also includes bulk orders, which generally comprise larger volume orders from significant customer accounts. These types of orders typically have terms that allow customers to vary the location and timing o