Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments * Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures * PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. [Reserved] * Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure * Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 49 Item 9B. Other Information * Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections * PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 50 Item 11. Executive Compensation 50 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 50 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 50 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 50 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 51 Signatures 54 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule F- 1 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary * *Not applicable. 1 Table of Conten t s CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2022 (Annual Report), and the information and documents incorporated by reference within this Annual Report, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), which statements are subject to considerable risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements other than statements of historical fact contained in, or incorporated by reference within, this Annual Report. We have attempted to identify forward-looking statements by using words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, should, will, or would, and similar expressions or the negative of these expressions. Specifically, this Annual Report, and the information and documents incorporated by reference within this Annual Report, contain forward-looking statements relating to, among other things: the impacts of the COVID-19 global pandemic (pandemic) on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, and the business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of our customers, suppliers, and business partners; changes to our business resulting from changes in discretionary spending, consumer confidence, unemployment rates, retail store activity, tourist activity, and governmental restrictions; the impact of government orders, local authority mandates and expert agency guidance on retail store closures and operating restrictions; our business, operating, investing, capital allocation, marketing, and financing plans and strategies; the expansion of our brands and product offerings; changes to the geographic and seasonal mix of our brands and products; changes to our product distribution strategies, including the implementation of our product allocation and segmentation strategies; changes in consumer preferences impacting our brands and products, and the footwear and fashion industries; trends impacting the purchasing behavior of wholesale partners and consumers, including those impacting retail and e-commerce businesses; bankruptcies or other financial difficulties impacting our wholesale or other business partners; the impact of seasonality and weather on consumer behavior, demand for our products, and our results of operations; the impact of climate change and related regulations on our business and results of operations; the impact of our efforts to continue to advance sustainable and socially conscious business operations, and the expectations and standards that our investors and other stakeholders have with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices; expansion of and investments in our Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) capabilities, including our distribution facilities and e-commerce platforms; the operational challenges faced by our warehouse and distribution centers (DCs), our wholesale partners, our global third-party logistics providers (3PLs), and third-party carriers, including as a result of global supply chain disruptions and labor shortages, and the related impacts on our ability to timely deliver products; global uncertainty resulting from Russia s invasion of Ukraine, including financial and economic sanctions resulting in higher transportation and energy costs, as well as other implications; availability of raw materials and manufacturing capacity, and reliability of overseas production and storage; inflationary pressures, including on labor costs and our raw material costs; commitments and contingencies, including with respect to operating leases, purchase obligations for product and raw materials, and legal or regulatory proceedings; the impacts of new or proposed legislation, tariffs, regulatory enforcement actions, or legal proceedings; the value of goodwill and other intangible assets, and potential write-downs or impairment charges; changes impacting our tax liability and effective tax rates; repatriation of earnings of non-United States (US) subsidiaries and any related tax impacts; and overall global economic, political, and social trends, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, and changes in commodity pricing. Forward-looking statements represent management s current expectations and predictions about trends affecting our business and industry and are based on information available at the time such statements are made. Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy or completeness. Forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements predicted, assumed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to materially differ from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report, as well as in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You should read this Annual Report, including the information and documents incorporated by reference herein, in its entirety and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from the results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Moreover, new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause our actual future results to be materially different from any results expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable law or the listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange, we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements. We qualify all our forward-looking statements with these cautionary statements. 2 Table of Contents PART I References within this Annual Report to Deckers, we, our, us, management, or the Company refer to Deckers Outdoor Corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries. UGG (UGG), HOKA (HOKA), Teva (Teva), Sanuk (Sanuk), Koolaburra by UGG brand (Koolaburra), UGGpure (UGGpure), and UGGplush TM (UGGplush) are some of our trademarks. Other trademarks or trade names appearing elsewhere within this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names within this Annual Report are referred to without the and symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all figures included within this Annual Report are expressed in thousands, except for per share or share data. The defined periods for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 are stated herein as year ended or years ended. We also refer to these fiscal years as fiscal year 2022, fiscal year 2021, and fiscal year 2020, respectively. Item 1. Business General We are a global leader in designing, marketing, and distributing innovative footwear, apparel, and accessories developed for both everyday casual lifestyle use and high-performance activities. We market our products primarily under five proprietary brands: UGG, HOKA, Teva, Sanuk, and Koolaburra. Our brands compete across the fashion and casual lifestyle, performance, running, and outdoor markets. We believe that our products are distinctive and appeal to a broad demographic. We sell our products through quality domestic and international retailers, international distributors, and directly to our global consumers through our DTC business, which is comprised of our e-commerce websites and retail stores. We seek to differentiate our brands and products by offering diverse lines that emphasize authenticity, functionality, quality, and comfort, and products tailored to a variety of activities, seasons, and demographic groups. All of our products are manufactured by independent manufacturers. Products and Brands UGG. The UGG brand is one of the most iconic and recognized brands in our industry, which highlights our successful track record of building niche brands into lifestyle and fashion market leaders. With loyal consumers around the world, the UGG brand has proven to be a highly resilient line of premium footwear, apparel, and accessories with expanded product offerings and a growing global audience that appeals to a broad demographic. We intend to continue diversifying the UGG brand to drive year-round product sales, including through expansion of Women s spring and summer footwear, Men s products, and apparel, accessories, and home goods. The UGG brand is sold globally, including in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. HOKA . The HOKA brand is an authentic, premium line of year-round performance footwear and apparel that offers enhanced cushioning and inherent stability with minimal weight. Originally designed for ultra-runners, the brand now appeals to world champions, taste makers, and everyday athletes. Strong marketing has fueled both domestic and international sales growth for the HOKA brand, which has quickly become a leading brand within our run and outdoor specialty wholesale accounts and is rapidly growing within selective key accounts. The HOKA brand s product line includes running, trail, hiking, fitness, and lifestyle. The HOKA brand is sold globally, including in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. Teva. The Teva brand was born in the Grand Canyon and for decades has served as a trusted companion for outdoor adventure seekers around the world. Today, Teva builds upon sport sandal leadership, authentic outdoor heritage, and a commitment to sustainability to drive growth through category expansion and a young, diverse, and adventurous consumer. The Teva brand s product line includes sandals, shoes, and boots. The Teva brand is sold globally, including in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. Sanuk. The Sanuk brand originated in Southern California surf culture and has manifested into a lifestyle brand with a presence in the relaxed casual shoe and sandal categories, focusing on innovations in comfort and sustainability. The Sanuk brand s use of unexpected materials and unconventional constructions, combined with its fun and playful branding, are key elements of the brand s identity. The Sanuk brand is primarily sold in the US. 3 Table of Contents Other Brands. O ther brands consist primarily of the Koolaburra brand. The Koolaburra brand is a casual footwear fashion line using plush materials and is intended to target the value-oriented consumer to complement the UGG brand offering. Our Other brands are primarily sold in the US and Canada. Sales and Distribution US Distribution. In our wholesale channel, we distribute our products in the US through sales representatives, who are organized by account type or geographically and by brand. In addition to our wholesale channel, we sell products directly to consumers through our DTC business and fulfill online orders through our DCs and retail stores. Our sales force is separated by brand, as each brand generally has certain specialty customers that expect a dedicated sales team with specialized knowledge of the brand s product offerings. However, there is some overlap between the sales teams and customers, and we have aligned our brands sales forces to position them for the future success of all of our brands. We currently distribute products sold in the US through our DCs in Moreno Valley, California, and Mooresville, Indiana, as well as through a 3PL in Pennsylvania. Our DCs feature a warehouse management system that enables us to efficiently pick and pack products for direct shipment to customers. Further, we intend to expand our DCs in the US. Refer to Part I, Item 2, Properties, and Note 7, Leases and Other Commitments, of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV within this Annual Report for further information on our properties and related minimum lease and other commitments. International Distribution. Internationally, in our wholesale channel, we distribute our products through independent distributors and wholly owned subsidiaries in many regions and countries, including Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America, among others. We also sell products internationally, particularly in China, through partner retail stores, which are branded stores that are wholly owned and operated by third parties. In addition, in certain countries we sell products through our DTC business. For our wholesale and DTC businesses, we distribute our products through a number of DCs managed by 3PLs in certain international locations. UGG Wholesale. We sell our UGG brand products primarily through fashion lifestyle retailers such as Urban Outfitters and ASOS, domestic higher-end department stores such as Nordstrom, Dillard s, and Macy s, streetwear and sports style partners such as Footlocker and Journey s, as well as online retailers such as Amazon.com, Zappos.com, and Zalando.com. As the retail marketplace continues to evolve to reflect changing consumer preferences, we continually review and evaluate our UGG wholesale distribution and product segmentation approach. For example, as the UGG brand continues to amplify its audience with younger consumers, our distribution to these consumers is expanding faster through our lifestyle and sports style partners. HOKA Wholesale. We sell select HOKA brand footwear primarily through full-service domestic specialty retailers such as Fleet Feet, JackRabbit, Road Runner Sports, REI, select online retailers such as Zappos.com, and other strategic partners, such as DICK s Sporting Goods, Running Warehouse, and Nordstrom. We continue to expand our HOKA brand wholesale distribution in international markets, including through strategic partners such as Intersport and Sport 2000 in Europe and Xebio Group and Himaraya in Japan. Teva Wholesale. We sell our Teva brand footwear primarily through specialty outdoor retailers, sporting goods and department stores, including REI, Famous Footwear, United Arrows, ABC Mart, Aeon Sports, Urban Outfitters, DICK s Sporting Goods, DSW, and Nordstrom, and online retailers such as Amazon.com and Zappos.com. Sanuk Wholesale. We sell our Sanuk brand footwear primarily through domestic independent action sports and outdoor specialty footwear retailers, as well as larger national retail chains, including Journeys, Dillard s, DSW, REI, and online retailers such as Amazon.com and Zappos.com. Other Brands Wholesale. We sell our Other brands footwear primarily through department stores and online retailers. Key accounts of the Koolaburra brand include larger national retail chains, including Kohl s, DSW, Macy s, QVC, Shoe Carnival, and Famous Footwear, as well as online retailers such as Amazon.com and Zappos.com. 4 Table of Contents Direct-to-Consumer. Our DTC business is comprised of our e-commerce business, which we operate through various websites and platforms, and retail stores. Our websites and retail stores are largely intertwined and interdependent. In an omni-channel marketplace, we believe many of our consumers interact with both our retail stores and our websites before making purchasing decisions. For example, consumers may feel or try on products in our retail stores and then place an order online later. Conversely, they may initially research products online, and then view inventory availability by store location and make a purchase in store. We have observed a meaningful shift in the way consumers shop for products and make purchasing decisions, evidenced by decreases in consumer retail store activity as consumers accelerate their migration to online shopping. We have optimized our digital marketing strategy to capitalize on these trends, which has accelerated global online consumer acquisition and retention rates. Although we continue to see consumers migrate to online shopping, our DTC online and retail sales channels interact with each other and largely overlap to provide a fluid purchasing experience, which engenders brand loyalty while increasing product sales and improving our inventory productivity. Further, our domestic and international consumer loyalty programs allow our consumers to earn points and awards across the DTC business, which has contributed to higher brand demand. Our retail stores enable us to expose consumers to a more curated selection of products, directly impact our consumers experience with our brands, and sell our products at retail prices thereby generating larger gross profit as a percentage of net sales (gross margin). Our retail stores are predominantly UGG brand concept stores and UGG brand outlet stores, though also include recent openings in our retail store fleet for the HOKA brand. Through our outlet stores, we sell some of our discontinued styles from prior seasons, full price in-line products, as well as products made specifically for the outlet stores. We continue to open outlet stores in key markets to further grow our brand presence and appeal to a broader consumer base. We also have several UGG brand flagship stores and recently opened a HOKA brand flagship store, which are lead concept stores in key markets designed to showcase the UGG and HOKA brand products, respectively. We continue to evaluate future locations for a curated fleet of mono branded retail stores for the UGG and HOKA brands to continue interacting with our consumers and enhancing brand loyalty. As of March 31, 2022, we operate our e-commerce business through Company-owned websites and mobile platforms in 59 different countries, and have a total of 149 global retail stores, which includes 75 concept stores and 74 outlet stores. Refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report for further disclosure and discussion of our DTC business. Product Design and Development The design and development functions for all of our brands are performed by a combination of internal design and development staff and outside freelance designers. Our design and development staff work closely with brand management to develop new styles and product lines. Throughout the development process, we have multiple design and development reviews, which we then coordinate with our independent manufacturers. To ensure quality, consistency, and efficiency in our product design and development process, we continually evaluate the availability and cost of raw materials, the capabilities and capacity of our independent manufacturers, and the target retail price of new products. Manufacturing and Supply Chain We outsource the production of our products to independent manufacturers, which are primarily located in Asia. We generally purchase products from our manufacturers on the basis of individual purchase orders or short-term purchase commitments, rather than maintaining long-term purchase commitments, which provides us greater flexibility to adapt to changing consumer preferences, changes in international trade relations, and evolving inventory management requirements. Production by our independent manufacturers is performed in accordance with our detailed product specifications and rigorous quality control and operating compliance standards. We maintain a buying office in Hong Kong, as well as on-site supervisory offices in China and Vietnam, which collectively serve as a strong link to our independent manufacturers. We believe our strong regional presence enhances our manufacturing processes by providing predictability of material availability and ensuring compliance with laws and regulations, and adherence to quality control standards and final design specifications. 5 Table of Contents The majority of the materials and components used in the production of our products by these independent manufacturers are purchased from independent suppliers that we designate. At our direction, our manufacturers purchase the majority of the sheepskin used in our products from two tanneries in China, which source their sheepskin primarily from Australia and the United Kingdom (UK). We maintain routine communication with the tanneries to closely monitor the supply of high-quality sheepskin for our projected UGG brand production. To ensure an adequate supply of sheepskin, we forecast our expected usage in advance at a forward price. We also enter into fixed purchasing contracts and other pricing arrangements with certain sheepskin, leather, and UGGpure suppliers to manage price volatility. We believe current supplies are sufficient to meet our current and anticipated demand, but we continually monitor our supply chain and investigate options to accommodate our expected growth, as well as unexpected supply chain issues. Refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 7, Leases and Other Commitments, of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV within this Annual Report for further information on our minimum purchase commitments. We require our independent manufacturers and designated suppliers, including our partners and licensees, to adopt our Ethical Supply Chain Supplier Code of Conduct, which specifies that they comply with all local laws and regulations governing human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption laws, restricted substances, and environmental compliance, including animal welfare and conflicts minerals, before we are willing to conduct business with them. We use a proprietary raw material, UGGpure, which is almost entirely repurposed wool woven into a durable backing, and UGGplush, which is almost entirely repurposed wool and lyocell woven into a durable backing, in some of our UGG brand products. As part of an ongoing effort to eliminate waste as part of our corporate sustainability efforts, at this time, all of the wool in UGGpure and UGGplush is sheared from the sheepskin we are already using in our products. In addition, we are continuing to drive our strategy of introducing counter-seasonal products through category expansion, including the UGG brand s spring and summer products, as well as the year-round performance footwear product offering of the HOKA brand, which we believe will help further reduce our dependency on sheepskin. Excluding sheepskin, UGGpure, and UGGplush, we believe that substantially all raw materials and components used to manufacture our products, including wool, rubber, leather, and nylon webbing, are generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. Inventory Management and Product Returns We have an extended design and manufacturing process, which involves the initial design of our products, the purchase of raw materials, the accumulation of inventories, the subsequent sale of the inventories, and the collection of the resulting accounts receivable. This production cycle results in significant liquidity requirements and working capital fluctuations throughout our fiscal year. Because our production cycle typically involves long lead times, which requires us to make manufacturing decisions several months in advance of an anticipated purchasing decision by the customer, it is challenging for us to estimate and manage our inventory and working capital requirements. We seek to manage our inventory levels by considering existing customer orders, forecasted sales and budgets for both our wholesale and DTC channels, and the delivery requirements of our customers. Our systems and processes are designed to improve our product forecasting, inventory control and supply chain management capabilities and we are making investments in a new end-to-end planning system to further support our scaling business, including our e-commerce business. In addition, added discipline around SKU productivity, product purchasing decisions, the reduction of production lead times, and the sale of excess inventory through our liquidation channels, are key areas of focus that we expect will further enhance inventory performance. Our general practice, and the general practice in our industry, is to offer customers in our wholesale channel the right to return defective or improperly shipped merchandise, and to accept returns from our consumers in the DTC channel between 30 to 90 days from the point of sale for cash or credit. We encourage our customers to place a significant portion of orders as pre-season orders, which are typically placed up to 12 months prior to the anticipated shipment date, as well as in-season fill-in orders that can be shipped immediately. We work with our customers through pre-season programs to enable us to better plan our production schedule, inventory, and shipping requirements. 6 Table of Contents Similar to other companies in our industry, we continue to experience supply chain challenges across each of the geographies in which we operate. The most significant macro-level supply chain impacts continue to be extended transit lead times and cost pressures due primarily to container shortages, port congestion, and trucking and labor scarcity. As we manage product availability, we are focused on mitigating the impacts of ongoing supply chain disruptions in both the wholesale and DTC channels, including through the early procurement of inventory in the country of sale, which will likely result in higher levels of inventory, to allow us to maintain expected service levels into our next fiscal year ending March 31, 2023 (next fiscal year). Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, within this Annual Report for further information on the associated risks and impacts on our business for supply chain disruptions. Refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report under the sections entitled Trends and Uncertainties Impacting Our Business and Industry, Liquidity, and Contractual Obligations for further information on the impact of supply chain disruptions on our results of operations, our working capital and operating requirements, as well as our purchase obligations for product, respectively. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) As a global leader in designing, marketing and distributing innovative footwear, apparel, and accessories, our worldwide reach and impact is significant. We believe consumers are increasingly buying brands that advance sustainable business practices and deliver quality products while striving for minimal environmental impact by employing socially conscious operations. Our sustainability policies and strategies are aligned with, and informed by, our ongoing efforts with multi-stakeholder initiatives, which involve our stockholders, employees, suppliers, and our customers, as well as other brands and non-governmental organizations. Through our holistic environmental, social and governance program, which has been in existence since 2010, we are committed to advancing our sustainable business initiatives. As a result of our efforts, we have been recognized by Newsweek as one of America s Most Responsible Companies and included on the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index during fiscal year 2022. ESG Oversight. Our Board of Directors, through its Corporate Governance Committee, which is comprised of four independent directors, oversees our ESG efforts. The Corporate Governance Committee and full Board of Directors regularly receives updates on the status of our ESG program. Our Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) is responsible for the day-to-day management of our ESG program. The program s execution is driven by our leadership team and various cross-functio