Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments * I tem 1C. C yber security 29 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures * PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. [Reserved] * Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure * Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 51 Item 9B. Other Information 52 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections * PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 53 Item 11. Executive Compensation 53 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 53 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 53 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 53 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 53 Signatures 56 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule F- 1 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary * *Not applicable. 1 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2024 (Annual Report), and the information and documents incorporated by reference within this Annual Report, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), which statements are subject to considerable risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements other than statements of historical fact contained in, or incorporated by reference within, this Annual Report. We have attempted to identify forward-looking statements by using words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, should, will, or would, and similar expressions or the negative of these expressions. Specifically, this Annual Report, and the information and documents incorporated by reference within this Annual Report, contain forward-looking statements relating to, among other things: changes in consumer preferences impacting our brands and products, and the footwear and fashion industries; global economic trends, including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, inflationary pressures, changes in commodity pricing, and recessionary concerns; the ability to effectively compete in a highly competitive footwear, apparel, and accessories industry; our business, operating, investing, capital allocation, marketing, and financing plans and strategies; the operational challenges faced by our warehouses and distribution centers (DCs), wholesale partners, global third-party logistics providers (3PLs), and third-party carriers, including as a result of global supply chain disruptions and labor shortages; trends, seasonality, and weather impacting the demand for our products and the purchasing behavior of wholesale partners and consumers; changes to the geographic and seasonal mix of our brands and products; availability of materials and manufacturing capacity, and reliability of overseas production and storage; changes to our product distribution strategies, including product allocation and segmentation strategies; the impact of our efforts to continue to advance sustainable and socially conscious business operations, and to meet the expectations that our investors and other stakeholders have with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices; the effects of climate change, natural disasters, and the impacts of public health issues, and the related changes in the regulatory environment and consumer demand to mitigate these effects, and the resulting impact on our business and the businesses of our customers, consumers, suppliers, and business partners; expansion of our brands, product offerings, and investments in our Direct-to-Consumer (DTC) capabilities, including our distribution facilities, e-commerce websites, and our retail store footprint; our plans to divest the Sanuk brand and the related terms and timing; global geopolitical tensions, including the impact of economic sanctions on our transportation and energy costs; security breach or other disruption to our information technology (IT) systems, or those of our vendors; our interpretation of applicable global tax regulations and changes in tax laws and audits that may impact our tax liability and effective tax rates; our cash repatriation strategy regarding earnings of non-United States (US) subsidiaries and the resulting tax impacts; the outcomes of legal proceedings, including the impact they may have on our business and intellectual property rights; and the value of goodwill and other intangible assets, and potential write-downs or impairment charges. Forward-looking statements represent management s current expectations and predictions about trends affecting our business and industry and are based on information available at the time such statements are made. Although we do not make forward-looking statements unless we believe we have a reasonable basis for doing so, we cannot guarantee their accuracy or completeness. Forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements predicted, assumed, or implied by the forward-looking statements. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to materially differ from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report, as well as in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which are available free of charge on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov and our website at ir.deckers.com . You should read this Annual Report, including the information and documents incorporated by reference herein, in its entirety and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from the results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Moreover, new risks and uncertainties emerge occasionally, and it is not possible for management to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause our actual future results to be materially different from any results expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. Except as required by applicable law or the listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange, we expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements. We qualify all our forward-looking statements with these cautionary statements. 2 Table of Contents PART I References within this Annual Report to Deckers, we, our, us, management, or the Company refer to Deckers Outdoor Corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries. UGG (UGG), HOKA (HOKA), Teva (Teva), Sanuk (Sanuk), Koolaburra by UGG (Koolaburra), AHNU (AHNU), UGGpure (UGGpure), and UGGplush TM (UGGplush) are some of our trademarks. Other trademarks or trade names appearing elsewhere within this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. The trademarks and trade names within this Annual Report are referred to without the and symbols, but such references should not be construed as any indication that their respective owners will not assert their rights to the fullest extent under applicable law. Unless otherwise indicated, all figures herein are expressed in thousands, except for per share and share data. The defined periods for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022 are stated herein as year ended or years ended. We also refer to these fiscal years as fiscal year 2024, fiscal year 2023, and fiscal year 2022, respectively. ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL We are a global leader in designing, marketing, and distributing innovative footwear, apparel, and accessories developed for both everyday casual lifestyle use and high-performance activities. We market our products primarily under six proprietary brands: UGG, HOKA, Teva, Sanuk, Koolaburra, and AHNU. Our brands compete across the fashion and casual lifestyle, performance, running, and outdoor markets. We believe our products are distinctive and appeal to a broad demographic. We sell our products through quality domestic and international retailers, international distributors, and directly to our global consumers through our DTC business, which is comprised of our Company-owned e-commerce websites and retail stores. We seek to differentiate our brands and products by offering diverse lines that emphasize fashion, authenticity, functionality, quality, and comfort, and products tailored to a variety of activities, seasons, and demographic groups. Independent third-party contractors manufacture all of our products (independent manufacturers). RECENT DEVELOPMENTS On February 1, 2024, Dave Powers announced his intention to retire from his position as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and President of the Company, effective August 1, 2024. Following this date, we expect Mr. Powers will continue to serve as a member of our Board of Directors. Also on February 1, 2024, we announced that Stefano Caroti, our Chief Commercial Officer, will be appointed as CEO and President, effective August 1, 2024. BRANDS UGG. The UGG brand is one of the most iconic and recognized footwear brands in our industry, which highlights our successful track record of building niche brands into lifestyle and fashion market leaders. With loyal consumers around the world, the UGG brand has proven to be a highly resilient line of premium footwear, apparel, and accessories with expanded product offerings that appeal to a growing global audience and a broad demographic. The UGG brand is sold globally, including in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. HOKA . The HOKA brand is an authentic premium line of year-round performance footwear, which offers enhanced cushioning and inherent stability with minimal weight. Originally designed for ultra-runners, the brand now appeals to world champions, taste makers, and everyday athletes. Expanded marketing and strategic marketplace presence have fueled both domestic and international sales growth of the HOKA brand, which has quickly become a leading brand within run and outdoor specialty wholesale accounts and is growing across its ecosystem of access points. The HOKA brand s product line includes running, trail, hiking, fitness and lifestyle footwear offerings, as well as select apparel and accessories. The HOKA brand is sold globally, including in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. 3 Table of Contents Teva. The Teva brand, born in the depths of the Grand Canyon, has long been a favored brand among outdoor adventurers across the globe. Today, building on its foundation as a leader in sport sandals and its authentic outdoor heritage, the Teva brand s thoughtfully designed, and accessible products are built for a range of outdoor pursuits, connecting with a vibrant, diverse audience passionate about exploration. The Teva brand s collection now includes a variety of footwear options, from classic sandals and shoes to boots; all crafted for the demands of the outdoors. The Teva brand is sold globally, including in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. Sanuk. The Sanuk brand originated in Southern California surf culture and has emerged as a lifestyle brand with a presence in the relaxed casual shoe and sandal categories with a focus on innovation in comfort and sustainability. The Sanuk brand s use of unexpected materials and unconventional construction, combined with its fun and playful branding, are key elements of the brand s identity. The Sanuk brand is primarily sold in the US. In alignment with effective resource allocation and the execution of our long-term objectives, we intend to divest the Sanuk brand. Other Brands. Other brands consist primarily of the Koolaburra brand, as well as the AHNU brand we launched in March 2024. The Koolaburra brand is a casual footwear fashion line that uses plush materials and is intended to target the value-oriented consumer to complement the UGG brand offering. The AHNU brand s footwear products fuse high-performance technology with timeless style crafted for everyday wear. Our Other brands are primarily sold in the US and Canada. SALES AND DISTRIBUTION US Distribution. In our wholesale channel, we sell our products in the US through sales representatives, who are organized by account type or geographically and by brand. Our sales force is organized by brand, as each brand generally has certain specialty customers that expect a dedicated sales team with specialized knowledge of the brand s product offerings. In addition to our wholesale channel, we sell products directly to consumers through our DTC business and fulfill online orders through our DCs and retail stores. We currently distribute products sold in the US through our DCs in Moreno Valley, California, and Mooresville, Indiana. Our DCs feature a warehouse management system that enables us to efficiently pick and pack products for direct shipment to customers and consumers. International Distribution. We sell our products internationally in our wholesale channel through independent distributors and our wholly owned subsidiaries, including in Canada, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. We also sell products internationally, particularly in China, through partner retail stores, which are branded stores that are wholly owned and operated by third parties. In addition, in certain countries we sell products through our DTC business. For our wholesale and DTC businesses, we distribute our products through a number of DCs managed by 3PLs in certain international locations. Refer to Part I, Item 2, Properties, and Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies, of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV within this Annual Report for further information on our properties and related minimum lease and other commitments. REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS Our six reportable operating segments include the worldwide wholesale operations of the UGG brand, HOKA brand, Teva brand, Sanuk brand, and Other brands, as well as DTC (collectively, our reportable operating segments). UGG Wholesale. We sell our UGG brand products primarily through fashion lifestyle retailers, higher-end department stores, streetwear and sports style partners, and online retailers. As the retail marketplace continues to evolve to reflect changing consumer preferences, we continually review and evaluate our UGG wholesale distribution and product segmentation approach. For example, as the UGG brand continues to amplify its audience within key consumer segments, our distribution to consumers in these segments is expanding faster through our lifestyle and sports style partners. 4 Table of Contents HOKA Wholesale. We sell HOKA brand products primarily through full-service specialty retailers, outdoor and sporting goods retailers, select online retailers, fashion lifestyle retailers, sports style partners, and higher-end department stores. We continue to expand our HOKA brand wholesale distribution in international markets, including through strategic partners in Europe and Japan. Teva Wholesale. We sell our Teva brand footwear primarily through outdoor and sporting goods retailers, fashion lifestyle retailers, large national retail chains, higher-end department stores, and online retailers. We continue to expand our Teva brand wholesale distribution in international markets, including through strategic partners in Japan. Sanuk Wholesale. We sell our Sanuk brand footwear primarily through domestic streetwear partners, higher-end department stores, large national retail chains, and online retailers. Other Brands Wholesale. Other brands is primarily made up of the Koolaburra brand, as well as the recently launched AHNU brand. We sell our Koolaburra brand footwear primarily through large national retail chains, higher-end department stores, and online retailers. Currently, we sell our AHNU brand footwear through domestic streetwear and lifestyle boutiques and retailers. Direct-to-Consumer. Our DTC business encompasses all of our brands and is comprised of our Company-owned e-commerce websites and retail stores, which are intertwined and interdependent in an omni-channel marketplace as we believe many of our consumers interact with both before making purchasing decisions in store and online. For example, consumers may feel or try on products in our retail stores and then place an order online later. Conversely, they may initially research products online, and then view inventory availability by store location and make a purchase in store. We have observed a meaningful shift in the way consumers shop for products and make purchasing decisions, evidenced by decreases in consumer retail store activity as consumers accelerate their migration to online shopping. We have optimized our digital marketing strategy to capitalize on these trends, which has accelerated global online consumer acquisition and retention rates. Although we continue to see consumers migrate to online shopping, our DTC online and retail sales channels interact with each other and largely overlap to provide a fluid purchasing experience, which engenders brand loyalty while increasing product sales and improving our inventory productivity. Our retail stores enable us to expose consumers to a curated selection of products, directly influence our consumers experience with our brands, and sell our products at retail prices; thereby generating larger gross profit as a percentage of net sales (gross margin). We continue to open retail stores in key markets to further grow our brand presence and appeal to a broader consumer base. Our Company-owned mono-branded retail stores are predominantly UGG brand concept and outlet stores, as well as HOKA brand concept stores, which we continue to launch in strategic locations. We also have several flagship stores, which are Company-owned premium mono-branded concept stores in key global markets designed to showcase the UGG and HOKA brand products. Flagship stores provide broader product offerings and generate greater traffic that enhance our interaction with consumers and increase brand loyalty. Through our outlet stores, we sell certain discontinued styles from prior seasons, full price in-line products, and products made specifically for the outlet stores. As of March 31, 2024, we operate Company-owned e-commerce websites in 56 different countries and have a total of 164 global retail stores (including 26 HOKA brand retail stores), which includes 83 concept stores and 81 outlet stores. Refer to Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report for further discussion of our DTC business, including the various retail store types and definitions. Refer to Note 12, Reportable Operating Segments, and Note 13, Concentration of Business, of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV within this Annual Report for additional information regarding our reportable operating segments, as well as our geographic areas and concentration of related business risks, respectively. 5 Table of Contents PRODUCT DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT Our design and development teams work closely with each brand s product management teams to create seasonal product lines designed to meet and exceed consumer expectations. Each brand follows a similar product creation path starting with consumer insights, including color, trend, material research, and in-depth market analysis. Throughout the creation process there are multiple concept and design reviews to develop prototypes which are assembled through our independent manufacturers. Depending on the brand and product application, there may be multiple rounds of samples for fit, dynamic or athlete testing, and on occasion, we may contract with external laboratories for additional research needs. Our diverse product offering enables us to leverage learnings across each of our brands, enabling innovation and economies of scale. Throughout the entire design and development process we evaluate the availability and costs of raw materials, the capabilities and capacities of our independent manufacturers, and the target pricing of our products. MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY CHAIN We outsource the production of our products to independent manufacturers, which are primarily located in Asia. We generally purchase products from our manufacturers on the basis of individual purchase orders, rather than maintaining long-term purchase commitments, which provides us greater flexibility to adapt to changing consumer preferences, changes in international trade relations, and evolving inventory management requirements. Production by our independent manufacturers is performed in accordance with our detailed product specifications and rigorous quality control and operating compliance standards. We maintain a buying office in Hong Kong, as well as on-site supervisory offices in China, Indonesia, and Vietnam, which collectively serve as a strong link to our independent manufacturers. We believe our substantial regional presence enhances our manufacturing processes by providing predictability of material availability and ensuring adherence to quality control standards and final design specifications. The majority of the materials and components used in the production of our products by our independent manufacturers are purchased from independent suppliers that we designate (designated suppliers). Key materials and components include sheepskin, UGGplush, and sugarcane-derived ethylene vinyl acetate (sugarcane-derived EVA). Sheepskin is used to manufacture a significant portion of our UGG brand products, and, at our direction, our independent manufacturers purchase the majority of this sheepskin from designated suppliers, mainly two tanneries in China, which source their sheepskin primarily from Australia. We maintain routine communication with the tanneries to closely monitor the supply of high-quality sheepskin for our projected UGG brand production. For wool, we currently use a proprietary material, UGGplush, which is almost entirely repurposed wool and TENCEL Lyocell woven into a durable backing, within certain UGG brand products. Sugarcane-derived EVA is utilized within certain UGG brand products. Sugarcane-derived EVA is predominately purchased from a Brazilian company by our independent manufacturers for the production of soles. Leveraging sugarcane-derived EVA, as opposed to petroleum-derived EVA, is part of our on-going commitment to sustainability. To ensure an adequate supply of sheepskin and UGGplush, we forecast our expected usage in advance at a forward price. We also enter into fixed purchasing contracts with designated suppliers of sheepskin and sugarcane-derived EVA, as well as other pricing arrangements for UGGplush, to manage price volatility and ensure availability. We believe current supplies are sufficient to meet our current and anticipated demand for the next 12 months, but we continually monitor our supply chain and explore options to accommodate our expected growth and mitigate the impacts of any unexpected supply chain issues. Excluding sheepskin, UGGplush, sugarcane-derived EVA, and certain branded materials for materials like outsoles, we believe that substantially all raw materials and components used to manufacture our products, including virgin wool, rubber, leather, and nylon webbing, are generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. Refer to the subsection titled Contractual Obligations under the section Liquidity within Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies, of our consolidated financial statements in Part IV within this Annual Report for further information on our minimum purchase commitments. 6 Table of Contents We require our independent manufacturers and designated suppliers, including our partners and licensees, to adopt our Ethical Supply Chain Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code of Conduct), which specifies that they must comply with all local laws and regulations governing human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption, restricted substances, and environmental compliance, including animal welfare and conflict minerals, before we are willing to conduct business with them. Refer to the Environmental, Social, and Governance section below for further information. INVENTORY MANAGEMENT AND PRODUCT RETURNS We have an extended design and manufacturing process, which involves the initial design of our products, the purchase of raw and other materials, the accumulation of inventories, the subsequent sale of the inventories, and the collection of the resulting accounts receivable. This production cycle results in significant liquidity requirements and working capital fluctuations throughout our fiscal year. Because our production cycle typically involves long lead times, which requires us to make manufacturing decisions several months in advance of an anticipated purchasing decision by the customer, it is challenging for us to estimate and manage our inventory and working capital requirements. We seek to manage our inventory levels by considering existing orders, forecasted sales and budgets for both our wholesale and DTC channels, and the delivery requirements of our customers. Our systems and processes are designed to improve our product forecasting, inventory control and supply chain management capabilities, and we are making investments in a new end-to-end planning system to further support our scaling business, including our Company-owned e-commerce websites. In addition, added discipline around SKU productivity, product purchasing decisions, the reduction of production lead times, and the sale of excess inventory through our liquidation channels, are key areas of focus that have enhanced inventory performance, including higher inventory turnover, and partially mitigated product cost increases. Our general practice, and the general practice in our industry, is to offer customers in our wholesale channel the right to return defective or improperly shipped merchandise, and to accept returns from our consumers in the DTC channel between 30 to 90 days from the point of sale for cash or credit. We encourage our customers to place a significant portion of orders as pre-season orders, which are typically placed up to 12 months prior to the anticipated shipment date, and also provide customers the ability to place in-season fill-in orders that can be shipped immediately. We work with our customers through pre-season programs to enable us to better plan our production schedule, inventory, and shipping requirements. Refer to the sections titled Trends and Uncertainties Impacting Our Business and Industry and Liquidity within Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, within this Annual Report for further information on our supply chain infrastructure capabilities, working capital and operating requirements, and purchase obligations for product. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE As a global leader in designing, marketing, and distributing innovative footwear, apparel, and accessories, our worldwide reach and impact is significant. We believe consumers are increasingly buying brands that deliver quality products while striving for minimal environmental impact by employing sustainable business practices. Our sustainability policies and strategies are informed by our ongoing efforts with multi-stakeholder initiatives, which involve our stockholders, employees, suppliers, and customers, as well as other brands and non-governmental organizations. Through our holistic Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) program, which has been in existence since 2010, we are committed to advancing our sustainable business initiatives. As a result of our efforts, during fiscal year 2024, we have been recognized as one of Barron s 100 Most Sustainable Companies, by Investor s Business Daily as one of the Best ESG Companies, by U.S. News and World Report as one of the Best Companies to Work For, by Newsweek as one of America s Most Responsible Companies and as one of America s Greenest Companies. 7 Table of Contents ESG Oversight. Our Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability Governance Committee (Corporate Governance Committee) is comprised of four independent members of our Board of Directors who oversee our ESG strategy and have ultimate oversight over all sustainability initiatives, strategies, and programs, including economic, social, and environmental risks. The Corporate Governance Committee and Board of Directors regularly receive updates on the status of our ESG program. In addition, the Audit Risk Management Committee (Audit Commi