Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 34 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 72 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreement s With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 152 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 152 Item 9B. Other Information 154 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 154 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 154 Item 11. Executive Compensation 155 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 155 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 155 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 155 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 156 Item 1 6. Form 10-K Summary 163 Signatures 164 4 Table of Contents PART I Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this report to we, us, our, the Company, and Dell Technologies mean Dell Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, references to Dell mean Dell Inc. and Dell Inc. s consolidated subsidiaries, and references to EMC mean EMC Corporation and EMC Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. We refer to our fiscal years ended February 2, 2024, February 3, 2023, and January 28, 2022 as Fiscal 2024, Fiscal 2023, and Fiscal 2022, respectively. Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2022 included 52 weeks, while Fiscal 2023 included 53 weeks. ITEM 1 BUSINESS Company Overview Dell Technologies helps organizations build their digital futures and individuals transform how they work, live, and play. We provide customers with a broad and innovative solutions portfolio for the data and artificial intelligence ( AI ) era, including traditional and modern infrastructure. Our differentiated and holistic information technology ( IT ) solutions enable us to capture growth as customer spending priorities evolve. Dell Technologies integrated solutions help customers modernize their IT infrastructure, manage and operate in a multicloud world, address workforce transformation, and provide critical solutions that keep people and organizations connected. We are helping customers accelerate their digital transformations to improve and strengthen business and workforce productivity. With our extensive portfolio and our commitment to innovation, we offer secure, integrated solutions that extend from the edge to the core to the cloud, and we are at the forefront of AI, software-defined, and cloud native infrastructure solutions. Dell Technologies operates globally in over 170 countries, supported by a world-class organization across key functional areas, including technology and product development, marketing, sales, services, and financing. We have a number of operational advantages that provide a critical foundation for our success. Our go-to-market engine includes an extensive direct sales force, with the ability to build deep customer relationships, and a global network of channel partners. Our global services footprint consists of service and support professionals and vendor-managed service centers that support customers across the world. We also manage a world-class supply chain at a significant scale with the ability to remain agile in a variety of environments. We offer customers choice in how they acquire our solutions including traditional purchasing and financing offerings provided by Dell Financial Services and its affiliates ( DFS ). We also offer flexible consumption models, including utility, subscription, and as-a-Service models. These offerings allow our customers to pay over time and provide them with operational and financial flexibility. Our Vision and Strategy Our vision is to become the most essential technology partner. We help customers address their IT needs and digital transformation objectives as they embrace today s changing technology landscape. We intend to realize our vision as we execute our strategy to leverage our strengths to extend our leadership positions and capture new growth. We believe we are uniquely positioned in our industry and that our results will continue to benefit from our operational advantages, which position our Company for long-term growth and value creation while keeping our purpose at the forefront of our decision-making: to create technologies that drive human progress. Technology is rapidly evolving with demand for simple and holistic solutions as companies navigate an increasingly complex IT environment. To meet our customers needs, we invest in research and development, sales, and other key areas of our business to deliver superior products and solutions capabilities and to drive sustainable long-term growth. 5 Table of Contents The impacts of technological advancement and data expansion continue to be a force for progress as artificial intelligence and generative AI have become the next wave of technological innovation. Through each wave of technological progress, we look to advance our capabilities to change the way we work, make decisions, improve business outcomes and customer experience, and reduce cost by leveraging new technology to streamline our systems and optimize business processes. We believe our unique operating advantages, our leadership, and our way of doing business provide a foundation to foster growth, drive efficiencies, and capitalize on each successive wave of innovation in a dynamic industry. Products and Services We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of comprehensive and integrated solutions, products, and services. We are organized into two business units which are also our reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions Group and Client Solutions Group. Infrastructure Solutions Group ( ISG ) ISG enables our customers digital transformations with solutions that address AI, machine learning, data analytics, and multicloud environments. ISG helps customers simplify, streamline, and automate IT operations. ISG solutions are built for multicloud environments and are optimized to run workloads in both public and private clouds, as well as on-premise. Our comprehensive storage portfolio includes modern and traditional storage solutions, including all-flash arrays, scale-out file, object platforms, hyper-converged infrastructure, and software-defined storage. Our server portfolio includes high-performance general-purpose and AI-optimized servers able to run workloads across customers IT environments, on-premises and in multicloud and edge environments. Our AI-optimized servers are designed to run high-value workloads, including AI model training, fine-tuning, and inferencing. Our networking portfolio helps our business customers transform and modernize their infrastructure, mobilize and enrich end-user experiences, and accelerate business applications and processes. Our strengths in server, storage, and virtualization software solutions allow us to offer leading converged and hyper-converged solutions, enabling our customers to accelerate their IT transformation with scalable integrated solutions. ISG also offers software, peripherals, and services, including consulting, configuration, and support and deployment. Approximately half of ISG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region ( EMEA ) and the Asia-Pacific and Japan region ( APJ ). Client Solutions Group ( CSG ) CSG offers branded PCs including notebooks, desktops, and workstations and branded peripherals that include displays, docking stations, keyboards, mice, and webcam and audio devices, as well as third-party software and peripherals. CSG also includes services offerings, such as configuration, support and deployment, and extended warranties. Our CSG offerings are designed to optimize performance, reliability, manageability, design, and security for our customers. Our commercial portfolio provides our customers with solutions centered on flexibility to address their complex needs such as IT modernization, hybrid work transformation, and other critical areas. Within our high-end consumer and gaming offerings, we provide our customers with powerful performance, processing, and end-user experiences. Approximately 60% of CSG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in EMEA and APJ. Our other businesses, described below, primarily consist of our resale of standalone offerings of VMware LLC (formerly VMware, Inc. and individually and together with its subsidiaries, VMware ), referred to as VMware Resale, and offerings of SecureWorks Corp. ( Secureworks ). These businesses are not classified as reportable segments, either individually or collectively. 6 Table of Contents VMware Resale consists of our sale of standalone VMware offerings. Following the completion of our spin-off of VMware in November 2021, Dell Technologies continued to resell VMware s offerings to our customers under our Commercial Framework Agreement (the CFA ) with VMware discussed in this report. On November 22, 2023, VMware was acquired by Broadcom, Inc. ( Broadcom ). Subsequent to the acquisition, Broadcom announced changes to its go-to-market approach for VMware offerings, resulting in a change in our commercial relationship with VMware. On January 25, 2024, under a provision of the CFA permitting us to terminate the agreement upon a change in control of VMware, we delivered notice of termination of the CFA to Broadcom under which the agreement will terminate on March 25, 2024. The Company continues to integrate select VMware products and services with Dell Technologies offerings and sell them to end-users. The results of such offerings are reflected within CSG or ISG, depending upon the nature of the underlying offering sold. See Note 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our relationship with VMware. Secureworks (NASDAQ: SCWX) is a global cybersecurity provider of technology-driven security solutions singularly focused on protecting its customers by outpacing and outmaneuvering the adversary. The solutions offered by Secureworks enable organizations of varying size and complexity to prevent security breaches, detect malicious activity, respond rapidly when a security breach occurs, and identify emerging threats. For further discussion regarding our current reportable segments, see Part II Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Business Unit Results and Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Consumption Models Our customers are seeking choice in how they consume our solutions and are looking to remove cost and complexity, align solution offerings to their business needs, and provide consistent, high-quality operations throughout their IT enterprise. We offer our customers choices that include as-a-Service, subscription, utility, leases, loans, and immediate pay models designed to match customers' consumption and financing preferences. We continue to enhance our as-a-Service offerings, inclusive of our offerings under Dell APEX. We believe these options provide operational and financial flexibility and strengthen our customer relationships. These offerings typically result in multiyear agreements which generate recurring revenue streams over the term of the arrangement. We expect that these offerings will provide a foundation for growth in recurring revenue. We define recurring revenue as revenue recognized that is primarily related to hardware and software maintenance as well as to subscription, as-a-Service, usage-based offerings, and operating leases. Dell Financial Services DFS supports our businesses by offering and arranging various financing options and services for our customers globally. DFS originates, collects, and services customer receivables primarily related to the purchase or use of our product, software, and services offerings. We also arrange financing for some of our customers in countries where DFS does not currently operate as a captive enterprise. Additionally, as described above, we offer flexible consumption models, including utility, subscription, and as-a-Service models. DFS funded $8.4 billion of originations in Fiscal 2024 and maintains an $10.5 billion global portfolio of high-quality financing receivables. The results of these operations are allocated to our segments based on the underlying product or service financed and may be impacted by, among other factors, changes in the interest rate environment and the translation of those changes to pricing. For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 7 Table of Contents Research and Development We focus on developing innovative solutions that incorporate desirable features and capabilities at competitive prices. We employ a collaborative approach to design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design solutions and work with a global network of technology partners to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products and solutions. We strive to deliver new and relevant products to the market quickly and efficiently. Our software engineers are focused on developing the next generation of innovative solutions. Our embedded software simplifies the complex through automation, increasingly leveraging artificial intelligence and machine-learning technology. Most of our research and development ( R D ) expenditures represent costs to develop the software that powers these solutions. We manage our R D expenses by concentrating on solutions that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by leveraging the capabilities of our strategic partnerships. We have a global R D presence, with total R D expenses of $2.8 billion for both Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2023, and $2.6 billion for Fiscal 2022. These investments reflect our commitment to innovation that aim to create the right solutions to help our customers build their digital future and transform their businesses. Strategic Investments and Acquisitions As part of our strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities for strategic investments through our venture capital investment arm, Dell Technologies Capital, with a focus on emerging technology areas that are relevant to our business and that will complement our existing portfolio of solutions. We target investments in such areas as storage, software-defined networking, management and orchestration, security, machine learning and AI, Big Data and analytics, cloud, edge computing, and software development operations. The technologies or products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never have commercial value, which could result in a loss of a substantial part of our investment in the companies. As of both February 2, 2024 and February 3, 2023, we held strategic investments in non-marketable securities of $1.3 billion. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information. In addition to these investments, we may also make disciplined acquisitions of businesses that advance our strategic objectives and accelerate our innovation agenda. Manufacturing and Materials We own manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Malaysia, China, Brazil, India, Poland, and Ireland. See Item 2 Properties for information about our manufacturing and distribution facilities. We also utilize contract manufacturers throughout the world to manufacture or assemble our products under the Dell Technologies brand to provide operational flexibility, achieve cost efficiencies, deliver products faster, better serve our customers, and enhance our supply chain. When using contract manufacturers, we purchase components from suppliers and subsequently sell those components to the manufacturer. Our manufacturing process consists of assembly, software installation, functional testing, and quality control. We conduct operations utilizing a formal, documented quality management system to ensure that our products and services satisfy customer needs and expectations. Testing and quality control are also applied to components, parts, sub-assemblies, and systems obtained from third-party suppliers. Our quality management system is maintained through the testing of components, sub-assemblies, software, and systems at various stages in the manufacturing process. Quality control procedures also include a burn-in period for completed units after assembly, ongoing production reliability audits, failure tracking for early identification of production and component problems, and processing of information from customers obtained through services and support programs. This system is certified to the ISO 9001 International Standard that includes our global sites and organizations that design, manufacture, and service our products. 8 Table of Contents Our order fulfillment, manufacturing, and test facilities are also certified to the ISO 9001 International Standard for quality management systems, the ISO 14001 International Standard for environmental management systems, the ISO 45001 International Standard for health and safety management systems, and the ISO 50001 International Standard for energy management systems. These internationally-recognized endorsements of ongoing quality, environmental, health and safety, and energy management are among the highest levels of certifications available. We also have implemented programs and methodologies to ensure that the quality of our designs, manufacturing, test processes, and supplier relationships are continually improved. We maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct, actively manage recycling processes for our returned products, and are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Smartway Transport Partner. We purchase materials, supplies, product components, and products from a large number of qualified suppliers. In some cases, where multiple sources of supply are not available, we rely on a single source or a limited number of sources of supply if we believe it is advantageous to do so because of performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. We believe that any disruption that may occur because of our dependence on single- or limited-source vendors would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See