Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. [ Reserved ] 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 74 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 76 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 159 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 159 Item 9B. Other Information 161 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 161 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 162 Item 11. Executive Compensation 163 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 163 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 163 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 163 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 164 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 170 Signatures 4 Table of Contents Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this report to we, us, our, the Company, and Dell Technologies mean Dell Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, references to Dell mean Dell Inc. and Dell Inc. s consolidated subsidiaries, references to EMC mean EMC Corporation and EMC Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries, and references to VMware refer to VMware, Inc. and VMware, Inc. s consolidated subsidiaries. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. We refer to our fiscal years ended January 28, 2022, January 29, 2021, and January 31, 2020, as Fiscal 2022, Fiscal 2021, and Fiscal 2020, respectively. Fiscal 2022, Fiscal 2021, and Fiscal 2020 included 52 weeks. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Fiscal 2022 Significant Developments On November 1, 2021, Dell Technologies completed its previously announced spin-off of VMware, Inc. ( VMware ) by means of a special stock dividend (the VMware Spin-off ). The VMware Spin-off was effectuated pursuant to a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of April 14, 2021, between Dell Technologies and VMware (the Separation and Distribution Agreement ). As part of the transaction, VMware paid a special cash dividend, pro rata, to each holder of VMware common stock in an aggregate amount equal to $11.5 billion, of which Dell Technologies received $9.3 billion. In connection with and upon completion of the VMware Spin-off, Dell Technologies and VMware entered into a Commercial Framework Agreement (the CFA ). The CFA provides a framework under which Dell Technologies and VMware will continue their commercial relationship after the transaction. On October 1, 2021, Dell Technologies completed the sale of Boomi, Inc. ( Boomi ) and certain related assets and received total cash consideration of approximately $4.0 billion. The transaction was intended to support the Company s focus on fueling growth initiatives through targeted investments to modernize Dell Technologies core infrastructure and through expansion in high-priority areas, including hybrid and private cloud, edge, telecommunications solutions, and the Company s APEX offerings. With the proceeds from the VMware Spin-off and cash on hand, we were able to make steady progress in paying down our outstanding debt throughout Fiscal 2022. As a result of our debt reduction and continued focus on deleveraging, we achieved an investment grade rating from three major credit rating agencies. During Fiscal 2022, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to present global challenges that directly impacted Dell Technologies, most notably in relation to supply chain impacts. As a result of the global economic recovery coupled with industry-wide constraints on the supply of limited-source components, we experienced demand which outpaced supply across many of our product offerings. The supply chain impacts led to an increase in orders pending fulfillment and extended lead times for our customers. We continue to closely monitor the impacts of COVID-19 and keep the health of our employees, customers, business partners, and communities as our primary focus. See Note 1, Note 3, and Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information regarding the VMware Spin-off, the Boomi divestiture, and our outstanding debt. Company Overview Dell Technologies helps organizations build their digital futures and individuals transform how they work, live and play. We provide customers with one of the industry s broadest and most innovative solutions portfolio for the data era, including traditional infrastructure and extending to multi-cloud environments. We continue to seamlessly deliver differentiated and holistic information technology ( IT ) solutions to our customers which has helped drive consistent revenue growth. Dell Technologies integrated solutions help customers modernize their IT infrastructure, manage and operate in a multi-cloud world, address workforce transformation, and provide critical solutions that keep people and organizations connected, which has proven even more important through the COVID-19 pandemic. We are helping customers accelerate their digital transformations to improve and strengthen business and workforce productivity. With our extensive portfolio and our commitment to innovation, we offer secure, integrated solutions that extend from the edge to the core to the cloud, and we are at 5 Table of Contents the forefront of the software-defined and cloud native infrastructure era. As further evidence of our commitment to innovation, we are evolving and expanding our IT as-a-Service and cloud offerings including APEX-branded solutions which provide our customers with greater flexibility to scale IT to meet their evolving business needs and budgets. Dell Technologies end-to-end portfolio is supported by a world-class organization that operates globally in approximately 180 countries across key functional areas, including technology and product development, marketing, sales, financial services, and services. Our go-to-market engine includes a 32,000-person sales force and a global network of over 200,000 channel partners. Dell Financial Services and its affiliates ( DFS ) offer customers payment flexibility and enables synergies across the business. DFS funded $8.5 billion of originations in Fiscal 2022 and maintains a $11 billion global portfolio of high-quality financing receivables. We employ approximately 35,000 full-time service and support professionals and maintain more than 2,400 vendor-managed service centers. We manage a world-class supply chain that drives long-term growth and operating efficiencies, with approximately $75 billion in annual procurement expenditures and over 750 parts distribution centers. Together, these elements provide a critical foundation for our success. Our Vision and Strategy Our vision is to become the most essential technology company for the data era. We seek to address our customers evolving needs and their broader digital transformation objectives as they embrace today s hybrid multi-cloud environment. We intend to execute on our vision by focusing on two overarching strategic priorities: Grow and modernize our core offerings in the markets in which we predominantly compete Pursue attractive new growth opportunities such as Edge, Telecom, data management, and as-a-Service consumption models We believe that we are uniquely positioned in the data and multi-cloud era and that our results will benefit from our competitive advantages. We intend to continue to execute our business model to position our company for long-term success while balancing liquidity, profitability, and growth. We are seeing an accelerated rate of change in the IT industry and increased demand for simpler, more agile IT as companies leverage multiple clouds in their IT environments. COVID-19 has accelerated the introduction and adoption of new technologies to ensure productivity and collaboration from anywhere. To meet our customer needs, we continue to invest in research and development, sales, and other key areas of our business to deliver superior products and solutions capabilities and to drive long-term sustainable growth. Products and Services We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of comprehensive and integrated solutions, products, and services. We are organized into two business units, referred to as Infrastructure Solutions Group and Client Solutions Group, which are our reportable segments. Infrastructure Solutions Group ( ISG ) ISG enables our customers digital transformation through our trusted multi-cloud and big data solutions, which are built upon modern data center infrastructure. ISG helps customers in the area of hybrid cloud deployment with the goal of simplifying, streamlining, and automating cloud operations. ISG solutions are built for multi-cloud environments and are optimized to run cloud native workloads in both public and private clouds, as well as traditional on-premise workloads. Our comprehensive portfolio of advanced storage solutions includes traditional storage solutions as well as next-generation storage solutions (such as all-flash arrays, scale-out file, object platforms, and software-defined solutions). In May 2020, we released our new PowerStore offering, a differentiated midrange storage solution that enables seamless updates using microservices and container-based software architecture. This offering allows us to compete more effectively within midrange storage. We continue to make enhancements to our storage solutions offerings and expect that these offerings will drive long-term improvements in the business. 6 Table of Contents Our server portfolio includes high-performance rack, blade, tower, and hyperscale servers, optimized to run high value workloads, including artificial intelligence and machine learning. Our networking portfolio helps our business customers transform and modernize their infrastructure, mobilize and enrich end-user experiences, and accelerate business applications and processes. Our strengths in server, storage, and virtualization software solutions enable us to offer leading converged and hyper-converged solutions, allowing our customers to accelerate their IT transformation by acquiring scalable integrated IT solutions instead of building and assembling their own IT platforms. ISG also offers attached software, peripherals and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services. Approximately half of ISG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region ( EMEA ) and the Asia-Pacific and Japan region ( APJ ). Client Solutions Group ( CSG ) CSG includes branded hardware (such as desktops, workstations, and notebooks) and branded peripherals (such as displays and projectors), as well as third-party software and peripherals. Our computing devices are designed with our commercial and consumer customers needs in mind, and we seek to optimize performance, reliability, manageability, design, and security. For our customers that are seeking to simplify client lifecycle management, Dell PC as-a-Service offering combines hardware, software, lifecycle services, and financing into one all-encompassing solution that provides predictable pricing per seat per month. CSG also offers attached software, peripherals, and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services. Approximately half of CSG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in EMEA and APJ. Our other businesses, described below, consists of our resale of standalone VMware offerings, referred to as VMware Resale, as well as product and service offerings of SecureWorks Corp. ( Secureworks ) and Virtustream. These businesses are not classified as reportable segments, either individually or collectively. VMware Resale consists of our sale of standalone VMware offerings. Under the CFA entered into as part of the VMware Spin-off, Dell Technologies continues to act as a key channel partner in this relationship, reselling VMware offerings to our customers. This partnership is intended to facilitate mutually beneficial growth for both Dell and VMware. VMware works with customers in the areas of hybrid and multi-cloud, modern applications, networking, security, and digital workspaces, helping customers manage their IT resources across private clouds and complex multi-cloud, multi-device environments. Secureworks (NASDAQ: SCWX) is a leading global provider of intelligence-driven information security solutions singularly focused on protecting its clients from cyber attacks. The solutions offered by Secureworks enable organizations of varying size and complexity to fortify their cyber defenses to prevent security breaches, detect malicious activity in near real time, prioritize and respond rapidly to security incidents and predict emerging threats. Virtustream offers cloud software and Infrastructure-as-a-Service solutions that enable customers to migrate, run, and manage mission-critical applications in cloud-based IT environments. We believe the collaboration, innovation, and coordination of the operations and strategies across the segments of our business, as well as our differentiated go-to-market model, will continue to drive revenue synergies. Through our research and development activities, we are able to engineer leading innovative solutions that incorporate the distinct set of hardware, software, and services across all segments of our business. Our products and services offerings are continually evolving in response to industry dynamics. As a result, reclassifications of certain products and services solutions in major product categories may be required. For further discussion regarding our current reportable segments, see Results of Operations Business Unit Results and Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 7 Table of Contents See Part II Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Business Unit Results and Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our reportable segment operating results. Recurring Revenue and Consumption Models Our customers are seeking new and innovative models that address how they consume our solutions. We offer options including as-a-Service, utility, leases, and immediate pay models, all designed to match customers consumption and financing preferences. We continue to evolve and build momentum across our family of as-a-Service offerings as we pursue our strategy of modernizing our core business solutions, with APEX at the forefront. We expect that our flexible consumption models and as-a-Service offerings will further strengthen our customer relationships and provide a foundation for growth in recurring revenue. These offerings typically result in multiyear agreements which generate recurring revenue streams over the term of the arrangements. We define recurring revenue as revenue recognized primarily related to hardware and software maintenance as well as subscription, as-a-Service, and usage based offerings, and operating leases. Dell Financial Services DFS supports our businesses by offering and arranging various financing options and services for our customers globally. DFS originates, collects, and services customer receivables primarily related to the purchase or use of our product, software, and services solutions. We also arrange financing for some of our customers in various countries where DFS does not currently operate as a captive entity. DFS further strengthens our customer relationships through its flexible consumption models which provide our customers with financial flexibility to meet their changing technological requirements. Our flexible consumption models enable us to offer our customers the option to pay over time and, in certain cases, based on utilization. The results of these operations are allocated to our segments based on the underlying product or service financed. For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Research and Development We focus on developing scalable technology solutions that incorporate desirable features and capabilities at competitive prices. We employ a collaborative approach to product design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design innovative solutions and work with a global network of technology companies to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products. Our team of software engineers is focused on developing the next generation of solutions for new and innovative technologies. Most of our research and development ( R D ) expenditures represent costs to develop the software that powers our solutions. This software simplifies the complex through automation, increasingly leveraging artificial intelligence and machine-learning technology. We manage our R D spending by targeting those innovations and solutions that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by relying on the capabilities of our strategic relationships. Our customer base includes a growing number of service providers, such as cloud service providers, Software-as-a-Service companies, consumer webtech providers, and telecommunications companies. These service providers turn to Dell Technologies for our advanced solutions that enable efficient service delivery at cloud scale. Through our collaborative, customer-focused approach to innovation, we strive to deliver new and relevant products to the market quickly and efficiently. Additionally, we invest in early-stage, privately-held companies that develop software, hardware, and other technologies or provide services supporting our technologies. We manage our investments through our venture capital investment arm, Dell Technologies Capital. Dell Technologies has a global R D presence, with total R D expenses of $2.6 billion, $2.5 billion, and $2.5 billion , for Fiscal 2022, Fiscal 2021, and Fiscal 2020, respectively. These investments reflect our commitment to R D activities that ultimately support our mission to help our customers build their digital future and to transform IT. 8 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Materials We own manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Malaysia, China, Brazil, India, Poland, and Ireland. See Item 2 Properties for information about our manufacturing and distribution facilities. We also utilize contract manufacturers throughout the world to manufacture or assemble our products under the Dell Technologies brand as part of our strategy to enhance our variable cost structure and to achieve our goals of generating cost efficiencies, delivering products faster, better serving our customers, and enhancing our supply chain. Our manufacturing process consists of assembly, software installation, functional testing, and quality control. We conduct operations utilizing a formal, documented quality management system to ensure that our products and services satisfy customer needs and expectations. Testing and quality control are also applied to components, parts, sub-assemblies, and systems obtained from third-party suppliers. Our quality management system is maintained through the testing of components, sub-assemblies, software, and systems at various stages in the manufacturing process. Quality control procedures also include a burn-in period for completed units after assembly, ongoing production reliability audits, failure tracking for early identification of production and component problems, and processing of information from customers obtained through services and support programs. This system is certified to the ISO 9001 International Standard that includes our global sites and organizations that design, manufacture, and service our products. Our order fulfillment, manufacturing, and test facilities are certified to the ISO 14001 International Standard for environmental management systems, the ISO 45001 International Standard for health and safety management systems, and the ISO 50001 International Standard for energy management systems. These internationally-recognized endorsements of ongoing quality, environmental, health and safety, and energy management are among the highest levels of certifications available. We also have implemented programs and methodologies to ensure that the quality of our designs, manufacturing, test processes, and supplier relationships are continually improved. We maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct, actively manage recycling processes for our returned products, and are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Smartway Transport Partner. We purchase materials, supplies, product components, and products from a large number of qualified suppliers. In some cases, where multiple sources of supply are not available, we rely on a single source or a limited number of sources of supply if we believe it is advantageous to do so because of performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. We believe that any disruption that may occur because of our dependence on single- or limited-source vendors would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See