Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 35 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 82 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 84 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 184 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 184 Item 9B. Other Information 186 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 186 Item 11. Executive Compensation 187 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 187 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 187 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 187 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 188 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 196 Signatures 4 Table of Contents Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this report to we, us, our, the Company, and Dell Technologies mean Dell Technologies Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, references to Dell mean Dell Inc. and Dell Inc. s consolidated subsidiaries, and references to EMC mean EMC Corporation and EMC Corporation s consolidated subsidiaries. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. We refer to our fiscal years ended January 31, 2020, February 1, 2019, and February 2, 2018 as Fiscal 2020, Fiscal 2019, and Fiscal 2018, respectively. Fiscal 2020, Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018 included 52 weeks. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Business Dell Technologies is a leading global end-to-end technology provider, with a comprehensive portfolio of IT hardware, software and services solutions spanning both traditional infrastructure and emerging, multi-cloud technologies that enable our customers to build their digital future and transform how they work and live. We operate globally across key functional areas such as technology and product development, marketing, go-to-market and global services, and are supported by Dell Financial Services. We continue to seamlessly deliver differentiated and holistic IT solutions to our customers, which has driven significant revenue growth and share gains. Dell Technologies operates with significant scale and an unmatched breadth of complementary offerings. Digital transformation has become essential to all businesses, and we have expanded our portfolio to include holistic solutions that enable our customers to drive their ongoing digital transformation initiatives. Dell Technologies integrated solutions help customers modernize their IT infrastructure, manage and operate in a multi-cloud world, address workforce transformation, and provide critical security solutions to protect against the ever increasing and evolving security threats. With our extensive portfolio and our commitment to innovation, we have the ability to offer secure, integrated solutions that extend from the edge to the core to the cloud, and we are at the forefront of the software-defined and cloud native infrastructure era. Our end-to-end portfolio is supported by a differentiated go-to-market engine, which includes a 43,000 -person sales force, a global network of channel partners, and a world-class supply chain that together drive revenue growth and operating efficiencies. Products and Services We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of products and services. We are organized into the following business units, which are our reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions Group; Client Solutions Group; and VMware. Infrastructure Solutions Group ( ISG ) ISG enables the digital transformation of our customers through our trusted multi-cloud and big data solutions, which are built upon a modern data center infrastructure. Our comprehensive portfolio of advanced storage solutions includes traditional storage solutions as well as next-generation storage solutions (such as all-flash arrays, scale-out file, object platforms and software-defined solutions). We have simplified our storage portfolio to ensure that we deliver the technology needed for our customers digital transformation. Our server portfolio includes high-performance rack, blade, tower, and hyperscale servers, optimized for artificial intelligence and machine learning workloads. Our networking portfolio helps our business customers transform and modernize their infrastructure, mobilize and enrich end-user experiences, and accelerate business applications and processes. Our strengths in server, storage, and virtualization software solutions enable us to offer leading converged and hyper-converged solutions, allowing our customers to accelerate their IT transformation by acquiring scalable integrated IT solutions instead of building and assembling their own IT platforms. ISG also offers attached software, peripherals, and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services. We recently unveiled the Dell Technologies Cloud, a new set of cloud infrastructure solutions to make hybrid cloud environments simpler to deploy and manage. The Dell Technologies Cloud portfolio consists of the new Dell Technologies Cloud Platforms and the new Data Center-as-a-Service offering referred to as VMware Cloud on Dell EMC. These solutions enable a flexible range of IT and management options with tight integration and a single vendor experience for purchasing, deployment, services, and financing, giving customers more control as the operational hub of their hybrid clouds. 5 Table of Contents Approximately half of ISG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region ( EMEA ) and the Asia-Pacific and Japan region ( APJ ). Client Solutions Group ( CSG ) CSG includes branded hardware (such as desktops, workstations, and notebooks) and branded peripherals (such as displays and projectors), as well as third-party software and peripherals. Our computing devices are designed with our commercial and consumer customers needs in mind, and we seek to optimize performance, reliability, manageability, design, and security. In addition to our traditional hardware business, we have a portfolio of thin client offerings that we believe will allow us to benefit from the growth trends in cloud computing. For our customers that are seeking to simplify client lifecycle management, Dell PC as a Service offering combines hardware, software, lifecycle services, and financing into one all-encompassing solution that provides predictable pricing per seat per month through Dell Financial Services. CSG also offers attached software, peripherals, and services, including support and deployment, configuration, and extended warranty services. Approximately half of CSG revenue is generated by sales to customers in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales to customers in EMEA and APJ. VMware The VMware reportable segment ( VMware ) reflects the operations of VMware, Inc. (NYSE: VMW) within Dell Technologies. VMware works with customers in the areas of hybrid and multi-cloud, modern applications, networking, security, and digital workspaces, helping customers manage their IT resources across private clouds and complex multi-cloud, multi-device environments. VMware s portfolio supports and addresses the key IT priorities of customers: accelerating their cloud journey, modernizing their applications, empowering digital workspaces, transforming networking, and embracing intrinsic security. VMware enables its customers to digitally transform their operations as they ready their applications, infrastructure, and employees for constantly evolving business needs. During the third quarter of Fiscal 2020, VMware, Inc. completed the acquisition of Carbon Black, Inc. ( Carbon Black ), a developer of cloud-native endpoint protection. On December 30, 2019, VMware, Inc. completed its acquisition of Pivotal Software, Inc. ( Pivotal ). Before the transaction, Pivotal was a majority-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies through EMC and VMware, Inc. Pivotal provides a leading cloud-native platform that makes software development and IT operations a strategic advantage for customers. Pivotal s cloud-native platform, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, accelerates and streamlines software development by reducing the complexity of building, deploying, and operating new cloud-native applications, and modernizing legacy applications. With the acquisition, which aligns key software assets, VMware, Inc. will drive and build on a comprehensive development platform with Kubernetes. Under the terms of the transaction, each outstanding share of Pivotal s Class A common stock (other than shares held by Pivotal stockholders who properly exercised their appraisal rights under Delaware law) was converted into the right to receive $15.00 in cash, and each outstanding share of Pivotal s Class B common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.0550 of a share of Class B common stock of VMware, Inc. Dell Technologies, which held all outstanding shares of Pivotal s Class B common stock, received approximately 7.2 million shares of Class B common stock of VMware, Inc. in the transaction. The purchase of the controlling interest in Pivotal from Dell Technologies was accounted for as a transaction between entities under common control. Assets and liabilities of Pivotal remained at their historical carrying amounts on the date of the transaction, with no new goodwill being recognized. This transaction required retrospective combination of the VMware, Inc. and Pivotal entities for all periods presented, as if the combination had been in effect since the inception of common control on the date of the EMC merger transaction in September 2016. Effective as of the transaction date, Dell Technologies reports Pivotal results within the VMware reportable segment, and the historical segment results have been recast to reflect this change. Pivotal results were previously reported within other businesses. See Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for the recast of segment results. 6 Table of Contents Approximately half of VMware revenue is generated by sales to customers in the United States. Our other businesses, described below, consist of product and service offerings of Secureworks, Virtustream, Boomi, and RSA Security, each of which is majority-owned by Dell Technologies. These businesses are not classified as reportable segments, either individually or collectively, as the results of the businesses are not material to our overall results and the businesses do not meet the criteria for reportable segments. Secureworks (NASDAQ: SCWX) is a leading global provider of intelligence-driven information security solutions singularly focused on protecting its clients from cyberattacks. The solutions offered by Secureworks enable organizations of varying size and complexity to fortify their cyber defenses to prevent security breaches, detect malicious activity in near real time, prioritize and respond rapidly to security incidents and predict emerging threats. Virtustream offers cloud software and infrastructure-as-a-service solutions that enable customers to migrate, run, and manage mission-critical applications in cloud-based IT environments. Beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal 2019, Virtustream results are reported within other businesses, rather than within ISG. This change in reporting structure did not impact our previously reported consolidated financial results, but our prior period segment results have been recast to reflect the change. Boomi specializes in cloud-based integration, connecting information between existing on-premise and cloud-based applications to ensure business processes are optimized, data is accurate and workflow is reliable. RSA Security provides essential cybersecurity solutions engineered to enable organizations to detect, investigate, and respond to advanced attacks, confirm and manage identities, and, ultimately, help reduce IP theft, fraud, and cybercrime. In February 2020, Dell Technologies announced its entry into a definitive agreement to sell RSA Security to a consortium of investors in an all-cash transaction for approximately $2.075 billion , subject to certain closing adjustments. The transaction is intended to further simplify our product portfolio and corporate structure. We believe the collaboration, innovation, and coordination of the operations and strategies across all segments of our business, as well as our differentiated go-to-market model, will continue to drive revenue synergies. Through our coordinated research and development activities, we are able to jointly engineer leading innovative solutions that incorporate the distinct set of hardware, software, and services across all segments of our business. See Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information about our reportable segments. See Part II Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Business Unit Results for a discussion of our reportable segment operating results. Dell Financial Services Dell Financial Services and its affiliates ( DFS ) support our businesses by offering and arranging various financing options and services for our customers in North America, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand. DFS originates, collects, and services customer receivables primarily related to the purchase of our product, software, and service solutions. We also arrange financing for some of our customers in various countries where DFS does not currently operate as a captive. DFS further strengthens our customer relationships through its flexible consumption models, which enable us to offer our customers the option to pay over time and, in certain cases, based on utilization, providing them with financial flexibility to meet their changing technological requirements. The results of these operations are allocated to our segments based on the underlying product or service financed. For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 7 Table of Contents Research and Development We focus on developing scalable technology solutions that incorporate highly desirable features and capabilities at competitive prices. We employ a collaborative approach to product design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design innovative solutions and work with a global network of technology companies to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products. We manage our research and development ( R D ) spending by targeting those innovations and products that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by relying on the capabilities of our strategic relationships. Through this collaborative, customer-focused approach, we strive to deliver new and relevant products to the market quickly and efficiently. Additionally, from time to time, we make strategic investments in publicly-traded and privately-held companies that develop software, hardware, and other technologies or provide services supporting our technologies. VMware represents a significant portion of our R D activities and has assembled an experienced group of developers with expertise in software-defined data centers, hybrid and multiple public clouds, the modernization, migration and management of applications, networking, security, and digital workspaces. VMware also has strong ties to leading academic institutions around the world and invests in joint research with academia. Product development efforts are prioritized through a combination of engineering-driven innovation and customer- and market-driven feedback. Dell Technologies has a global R D presence, with total R D expenses of $5.0 billion , $4.6 billion , and $4.4 billion , for Fiscal 2020 , Fiscal 2019 , and Fiscal 2018 , respectively. These investments reflect our commitment to R D activities that ultimately support our mission: to help our customers build their digital future and to transform IT. Manufacturing and Materials We own manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Malaysia, China, Brazil, India, Poland, and Ireland. See Item 2 Properties for information about our manufacturing and distribution facilities. We also utilize contract manufacturers throughout the world to manufacture or assemble our products under the Dell Technologies brand as part of our strategy to enhance our variable cost structure and to achieve our goals of generating cost efficiencies, delivering products faster, better serving our customers, and enhancing our world-class supply chain. Our manufacturing process consists of assembly, software installation, functional testing, and quality control. We conduct operations utilizing a formal, documented quality management system to ensure that our products and services satisfy customer needs and expectations. Testing and quality control are also applied to components, parts, sub-assemblies, and systems obtained from third-party suppliers. Our quality management system is maintained through the testing of components, sub-assemblies, software, and systems at various stages in the manufacturing process. Quality control procedures also include a burn-in period for completed units after assembly, ongoing production reliability audits, failure tracking for early identification of production and component problems, and information from customers obtained through services and support programs. This system is certified to the ISO 9001 International Standard that includes most of our global sites that design, manufacture, and service our products. Our order fulfillment, manufacturing, and test facilities in Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Ireland are certified to the ISO 14001 International Standard for environmental management systems and also have achieved OHSAS 18001 certification, an international standard for facilities with world-class safety and health management systems. These internationally-recognized endorsements of ongoing quality and environmental management are among the highest levels of certifications available. We also have implemented Lean Six Sigma and 7S (Customer, Safety, Quality, Delivery, Cost, Team, and Green) methodologies to ensure that the quality of our designs, manufacturing, test processes, and supplier relationships are continually improved. We maintain a robust Supplier Code of Conduct, actively manage recycling processes for our returned products, and are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Smartway Transport Partner. 8 Table of Contents We purchase materials, supplies, product components, and products from a large number of qualified suppliers. In some cases, where multiple sources of supply are not available, we rely on a single source or a limited number of sources of supply if we believe it is advantageous to do so because of performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. We believe that any disruption that may occur because of our dependence on single- or limited-source vendors would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See