ITEM 1. BUSINESS 4 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 17 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 18 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 18 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 19 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 19 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 22 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 22 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 25 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 39 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 40 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 40 DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 43 DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 44 DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 45 DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY 46 DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 47 DOLLAR GENERAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 48 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 69 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 69 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 70 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 71 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 74 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 74 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 75 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 75 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 75 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 76 ITEM 16 FORM 10-K SUMMARY 82 SIGNATURES 83 Table of Contents INTRODUCTION General This report contains references to years 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, and 2015, which represent fiscal years ending or ended January 29, 2021, January 31, 2020, February 1, 2019, February 2, 2018, February 3, 2017, and January 29, 2016, respectively. Our fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to January 31. Our 2016 fiscal year consisted of 53 weeks, while each of the remaining years listed consists of 52 weeks. All of the discussion and analysis in this report should be read with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and tradenames may appear in this report without the or TM symbol which is not intended to indicate that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the right to these trademarks and tradenames. Cautionary Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws throughout this report, particularly under the headings Business, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies, among others. You can identify these statements because they are not limited to historical fact or they use words such as may, will, should, could, can, would, believe, anticipate, project, plan, expect, estimate, goal, seek, ensure, potential, opportunity, objective, intend, predict, committed, likely, continue, strive, aim, scheduled, focused on, or subject to and similar expressions that concern our strategies, plans, initiatives, intentions or beliefs about future occurrences or results. For example, all statements relating to, among others, our estimated and projected expenditures, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; our plans and objectives for, and expectations regarding, future operations, economic and competitive market conditions, growth or initiatives, including but not limited to the number of planned store openings, remodels and relocations, store formats, progress of merchandising and other initiatives, trends in sales of consumable and non-consumable products, and level of future costs and expenses; potential future stock repurchases and cash dividends; anticipated borrowing under our unsecured revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program; potential impact of legal or regulatory changes and our responses thereto, including the potential impact of tariffs imposed by the U.S. government; potential impact of the COVID-19 outbreak; anticipated impact of new accounting standards; efforts to improve distribution and transportation efficiencies, including self-distribution; efforts to improve our in-stock position, customer convenience proposition and store labor productivity; or expected outcome or effect of pending or threatened legal disputes, litigation or audits are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those which we expected. Many of these statements are derived from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based on many detailed assumptions that we believe are reasonable. However, it is very difficult to predict the effect of known factors, and we cannot anticipate all factors that could affect future results. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this document (including, without limitation, in conjunction with the forward-looking statements themselves and under the heading Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates ). All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by these and other cautionary statements that we make from time to time in our other SEC filings and public communications. You should evaluate forward-looking statements in the context of these risks and uncertainties and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. These factors may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. We cannot assure you that we will realize the results or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect. Forward-looking statements in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation, and specifically disclaim any duty, to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are among the largest discount retailers in the United States by number of stores, with 16,368 stores located in 45 states as of February 28, 2020, with the greatest concentration of stores in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumable items, seasonal items, home products and apparel. Our merchandise includes national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as our own private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national brands. We offer our customers these national brand and private brand products at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) in our convenient small-box locations. Our History J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the name J.L. Turner Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DG , and in December 2013 the entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with KKR sold its remaining shares of our common stock. Our Business Model Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We continually evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability, cash generation and returns for our shareholders. Our long-term operating priorities remain: 1) driving profitable sales growth, 2) capturing growth opportunities, 3) enhancing our position as a low-cost operator, and 4) investing in our people as a competitive advantage. For more information on these operating priorities, see the Executive Overview section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Part II, Item 7 of this report. In 2019, we achieved our 30th consecutive year of positive same-store sales growth. We believe that this growth, which has taken place in a variety of economic conditions, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition, although no assurances can be given that we will continue to achieve positive same-store sales growth in any given year. Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition. Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices in convenient locations and our easy in and out shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that we believe distinguishes us from other discount retailers as well as convenience, drug, grocery, online and mass merchant retailers. Our slogan Save time. Save money. Every day! summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with 4 Table of Contents limited shopping alternatives, as well as in larger and more competitive markets. Our value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following attributes of our business model: Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise. Our research indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of items per merchandise category, which we believe helps us maintain strong purchasing power. We offer nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition to offering our own private brands at substantially lower prices. Convenient Locations. Our stores are conveniently located in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities. We seek to locate our stores in close proximity to our customers, which helps drive customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other large-box retail and grocery stores. Time-Saving Shopping Experience. We strive to provide customers with a highly convenient, easy to navigate shopping experience. Our small-box stores make it easier to get in and out quickly. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as basic packaged and refrigerated or frozen food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, health and beauty care items, tobacco products, greeting cards and other stationery items, basic apparel, housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among others. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise offering allow our customers to fulfill their requirements for basic goods and minimize their need to shop elsewhere. Substantial Growth Opportunities. We believe we have substantial long-term growth potential in the U.S., and we have identified significant opportunities to add new stores in both existing and new markets. In addition, we have opportunities to relocate or remodel locations within our existing store base to better serve our customers. Our attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low-cost operating model, have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels and provide us significant opportunities to continue our profitable store growth strategy. Our Merchandise We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which we believe helps to drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We offer a wide selection of nationally advertised brands from leading manufacturers. Additionally, our private brand products offer even greater value with options to purchase both products that are of comparable quality to national brands as well as opening price point items, each at substantial discounts to the national brands. Consumables is our largest merchandise category and has continued to become a larger percentage of our total sales as indicated in the table below. Consumables include paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, and laundry); packaged food (such as cereals, canned soups and vegetables, condiments, spices, sugar and flour); perishables (such as milk, eggs, bread, refrigerated and frozen food, beer and wine); snacks (such as candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (such as over-the-counter medicines and personal care products including soap, body wash, shampoo, cosmetics, dental hygiene and foot care products); pet (such as pet supplies and pet food); and tobacco products. Seasonal products include holiday items, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home office supplies. 5 Table of Contents Home products include kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods. Apparel includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories. The percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows: 2019 2018 2017 Consumables 78.0 % 77.5 % 76.9 % Seasonal 11.7 % 11.9 % 12.1 % Home products 5.8 % 5.9 % 6.0 % Apparel 4.5 % 4.7 % 5.0 % Our seasonal and home products categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin. The Dollar General Store The typical Dollar General store is operated by a store manager, one or more assistant store managers, and three or more sales associates. Our stores generally feature a low-cost, no frills building with limited maintenance capital, low operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and capital investment returns. Our stores average approximately 7,400 square feet of selling space, and approximately 75% of our stores are located in towns of 20,000 or fewer people. We generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past, and we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In addition, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs. Our store growth over the past three years is summarized in the following table: Stores at Net Beginning Stores Stores Store Stores at Year of Year Opened Closed Increase End of Year 2017 13,320 1,315 101 1,214 14,534 2018 14,534 900 64 836 15,370 2019 15,370 975 67 908 16,278 Our Customers Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers reliance on Dollar General varies from fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most essential needs. We generally locate our stores and plan our merchandise selections to best serve the needs of our core customers, the low and fixed income households often underserved by other retailers, and we are focused on helping them make the most of their spending dollars. At the same time, however, Dollar General shoppers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages appreciate our quality merchandise as well as our attractive value and convenience proposition. Our Suppliers We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand merchandise. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited number of items per category, allowing us to keep our average costs low. Our two largest suppliers each accounted for 6 Table of Contents approximately 8% of our purchases in 2019. Our private brands come from a wide variety of suppliers. We directly imported approximately 6% of our purchases at cost in 2019. We consistently have been able to obtain sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we generally would be able to obtain alternative sources; however, such alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs and supply chain lead time and expenses, result in a temporary reduction in store inventory levels, reduce our selection, or reduce the quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales. Distribution and Transportation Our stores are currently supported by distribution centers for non-refrigerated merchandise located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. In addition to our traditional distribution centers, we now operate multiple temperature-controlled distribution facilities in support of DG Fresh , our strategic, multi-phased shift to self-distribution of frozen and refrigerated goods, such as dairy, deli and frozen products. We regularly analyze and rebalance the network to ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service levels our stores require. See Properties below for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers. Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers and is delivered to our stores by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. We also own more than 300 semi-trailer trucks with which we transport our merchandise. In addition, vendors or third-party distributors deliver or ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores. Seasonality Our business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, our most profitable sales mix occurs in the fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas selling season. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, new store openings, remodels, relocations and store closings. We typically purchase substantial amounts of inventory and incur higher shipping and payroll costs in the third quarter in anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Our Competition We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, customers, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, service offerings, in-stock consistency, customer service, promotional activity, employees, and market share. We compete with discount stores and many other retailers, including mass merchandise, warehouse club, grocery, drug, convenience, variety, online, and certain specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Big Lots, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Kroger, Aldi, Lidl, Walgreens, CVS, and RiteAid, among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to secure better arrangements from suppliers than we can. Competition is intense and we believe it will continue to be so, with certain competitors reducing their store locations while others move into or increase their presence in our geographic and product markets and increase the availability of mobile, web-based and other digital technology to facilitate a more convenient and competitive customer online and in-store shopping experience. We believe that we differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We are able to maintain competitive prices due in part to our low-cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows us to keep our average product 7 Table of Contents costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See Our Business Model above for further discussion of our competitive situation. Our Employees As of February 28, 2020, we employed approximately 143,000 full-time and part-time employees, including divisional and regional managers, district managers, store managers, other store personnel and distribution center and administrative personnel. We have increasingly focused on recruiting, training, motivating and retaining employees, and we believe that the quality, performance and morale of our employees continue to be an important part of our success in recent years. We believe our overall relationship with our employees is good. Our Trademarks We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual property laws. We attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration. We also hold an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through at least March 5, 2026 and the Believe Beauty brand through at least March 23, 2022. Available Information Our Internet website address is www.dollargeneral.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Form 10-K. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, registration statements and other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar General, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. 8 Table of Contents