ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 21 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 21 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 23 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 23 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 24 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 24 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 26 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 26 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 27 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 41 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 42 Report of Ernst Young, LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 42 Consolidated Balance Sheets 44 Consolidated Statements of Income 45 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 46 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity 47 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 48 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 49 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 68 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 68 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 69 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 70 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 70 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 71 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 71 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 72 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 72 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 72 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 73 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 81 SIGNATURES 82 2 Table of Contents INTRODUCTION General This report contains references to years 2024, 2023, 2022, and 2021, which represent fiscal years ending or ended January 31, 2025, February 2, 2024, February 3, 2023 and January 28, 2022, respectively. Our fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to January 31. Our 2022 fiscal year consisted of 53 weeks, while each of the remaining years listed consists of 52 weeks. All of the discussion and analysis in this report should be read with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and tradenames may appear in this report without the or TM symbol which is not intended to indicate that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the right to these trademarks and tradenames. Cautionary Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws throughout this report, particularly under the headings Business, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies, among others. You can identify these statements because they are not limited to historical fact or they use words such as may, will, should, could, can, would, believe, anticipate, project, plan, expect, estimate, goal, seek, ensure, potential, opportunity, intend, predict, committed, likely, continue, strive, aim, scheduled, focused on, long-term, future, over time, ongoing, uncertain, moving forward, or subject to and similar expressions that concern our strategies, plans, initiatives, intentions or beliefs about future occurrences or results or other future matters. For example, all statements relating to, among others, the following are forward-looking statements: our projections and expectations regarding expenditures, costs, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; our expectations regarding economic and competitive market conditions; our plans, objectives, and expectations regarding future operations, growth, investments and initiatives, including but not limited to our real estate, store growth and international expansion plans, store formats or concepts, shrink and damages reduction actions, inventory reduction efforts, and anticipated progress and impact of our strategic initiatives (including but not limited to our digital initiatives, DG Media Network, DG Fresh, self-checkout, and pOpshelf) and our merchandising, margin enhancing, distribution/transportation efficiency (including but not limited to self-distribution and our private fleet), store manager turnover reduction and other initiatives; expectations regarding sales and mix of consumable and non-consumable products, customer traffic, basket size, shrink and inventory levels; expectations regarding inflationary and labor pressures, fuel prices, and other supply chain challenges; expectations regarding stock repurchases and cash dividends; anticipated borrowing under our credit agreement and our commercial paper program; potential impact of legal or regulatory changes or governmental assistance or stimulus programs and our responses thereto, including without limitation potential further federal, state and/or local minimum wage increases or changes to salary levels required for certain overtime-exempt positions, as well as changes to certain government assistance programs, such as SNAP benefits, unemployment benefits, and economic stimulus payments and the student loan forbearance program, or potential changes to the corporate tax rate; and expected outcome or effect of pending or threatened legal disputes, governmental actions, litigation or audits. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may change at any time and may cause our actual results to differ materially from those that we expected. We derive many of these statements from our operating budgets and forecasts as of the date of this document, which are based on many detailed assumptions that we believe are reasonable. However, it is very difficult to predict the effect of known factors on future results, and we cannot anticipate all factors that could affect future results that may be important to you. 3 Table of Contents Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in or implied by our forward-looking statements are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this document (including, without limitation, in conjunction with the forward-looking statements themselves and under the heading Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates ). All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by these and other cautionary statements that we make from time to time in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and public communications. You should evaluate forward-looking statements in the context of these risks and uncertainties and are cautioned to not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We caution you that these factors may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. We cannot assure you that we will realize the results, performance or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect. The forward-looking statements in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation, and specifically disclaim any duty, to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or circumstances, or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law. You should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts and others, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material, nonpublic information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any securities analyst regardless of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, we have a policy against confirming any projections, forecasts or opinions issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are the largest discount retailer in the United States by number of stores, with 20,022 stores located in 48 U.S. states and Mexico as of March 1, 2024, with the greatest concentration of stores in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. Our first stores in Mexico opened in 2023. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumable items, seasonal items, home products and apparel. Our merchandise includes national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as our own private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national brands. We offer our customers these national brand and private brand products at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) in our convenient small-box locations. Our History J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the name J.L. Turner Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DG , and in December 2013 the entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with KKR sold its remaining shares of our common stock. Our Business Model Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We continually evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability, cash generation and returns for our shareholders. Our long-term operating priorities are: 1) driving profitable sales growth, 2) capturing growth opportunities, 3) enhancing our position as a low-cost operator, and 4) investing in our diverse teams through development, empowerment and inclusion . For more information on these operating priorities, see the Executive Overview section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Part II, Item 7 of this report. We have achieved positive same-store sales growth each year since 1990, with the exception of 2021 which followed unusually high sales results in 2020 during the height of the COVID pandemic. We believe that this consistent growth over many years, which has taken place in a variety of economic conditions, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition, although no assurances can be given that we will achieve positive same-store sales growth in any given year. Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition. Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices in convenient locations and our easy in and out shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that we believe distinguishes us from other discount retailers as well as convenience, drug, grocery, online and mass merchant retailers. Our slogan Save time. Save money. Every day! summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited shopping alternatives, as well as in larger and more competitive markets. Our value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following attributes of our business model: Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise. Our research indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are competitive with even the 5 Table of Contents largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of items per merchandise category, which we believe helps us maintain strong purchasing power. We offer nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition to offering our own private brands, often at substantially lower prices. Convenient Locations. Our stores are conveniently located in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities. We seek to locate our stores in close proximity to our customers, which helps drive customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other large-box retail and grocery stores. Time-Saving Shopping Experience. We strive to provide customers with a highly convenient, easy to navigate shopping experience. Our small-box stores are designed to make it easier to get in and out quickly, and our digital tools and offerings help drive even greater convenience and additional access points. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as basic packaged and refrigerated or frozen food products, dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, health and beauty care items, greeting cards and other stationery items, basic apparel, housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among others. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise offering allow our customers to fulfill their requirements for basic goods and minimize their need to shop elsewhere. Substantial Growth Opportunities. We believe we have substantial long-term growth potential in the U.S., and we have identified significant opportunities to add new stores, including our pOpshelf concept, in both existing and new markets. In addition, we have opportunities to relocate, remodel or convert locations within our existing store base to better serve our customers. Our pOpshelf concept, which we continue to evaluate and evolve, represents an additional growth opportunity as a unique small-box retail concept that focuses on categories such as seasonal and home d cor, health and beauty, home cleaning supplies, and party and entertainment goods. We have also identified international expansion, with an initial focus on Mexico, as an opportunity for growth. We opened our first Mi S per Dollar General stores in Mexico in 2023 and believe there is additional growth potential in Mexico in the years ahead. Our attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low-cost operating model, and our variety of store formats have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels and provide us significant opportunities to continue our profitable store growth strategy. Our Merchandise We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which we believe helps to drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We offer a wide selection of nationally advertised brands from leading manufacturers. Additionally, our private brand products offer even greater value with options to purchase both products that are of comparable quality to national brands as well as opening price point items, each often at substantial discounts to the national brands. Consumables is our largest merchandise category and includes paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, disinfectants, and laundry); packaged food (such as cereals, pasta, canned soups, canned meats, fruits and vegetables, condiments, spices, sugar and flour); perishables (such as milk, eggs, bread, refrigerated and frozen food, beer, wine and produce); snacks (such as candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (such as over-the-counter medicines and personal care products including soap, body wash, shampoo, cosmetics, dental hygiene and foot care products); pet (such as pet supplies and pet food); and tobacco products. Seasonal products include holiday items, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home office supplies. Home products include kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods. 6 Table of Contents Apparel includes basic items for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories. The percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows: 2023 2022 2021 Consumables 81.0 % 79.7 % 76.7 % Seasonal 10.6 % 11.0 % 12.2 % Home products 5.6 % 6.2 % 6.8 % Apparel 2.8 % 3.1 % 4.3 % Our seasonal and home products categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin. The Dollar General Store The typical Dollar General store is operated by a store manager, one or more assistant store managers, and three or more sales associates. Our stores generally feature a low-cost, no frills building with limited capital requirements, low operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and capital investment returns. Our stores currently average approximately 7,500 square feet of selling space, and approximately 80% of our stores are located in towns of 20,000 or fewer people. Our primary new store formats currently average selling space of approximately 8,500 square feet and 9,500 square feet. We generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past, and we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In addition, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs. Our store growth over the past three years is summarized in the following table: Stores at Net Beginning Stores Stores Store Stores at Year of Year Opened Closed Increase End of Year 2021 17,177 1,050 97 953 18,130 2022 18,130 1,039 65 974 19,104 2023 19,104 987 105 882 19,986 Our Customers Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers reliance on Dollar General varies from fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most essential needs. We generally locate our stores and plan our merchandise selections to best serve the needs of our core customers, the low and fixed income households often underserved by other retailers (including grocers), and we are focused on helping them make the most of their spending dollars. At the same time, however, Dollar General shoppers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages appreciate our quality merchandise as well as our attractive value and convenience proposition. Our Suppliers We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand merchandise. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited number of items per category, allowing us to keep our average costs low. Our two largest suppliers accounted for approximately 10% and 8%, respectively, of our purchases in 2023. Our private brands come from a wide variety of suppliers. We directly imported approximately 4% of our purchases at cost in 2023. 7 Table of Contents Distribution and Transportation Our stores are currently supported by distribution centers for frozen, refrigerated and non-refrigerated merchandise located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. In addition to our traditional distribution centers, we operate multiple temperature-controlled distribution facilities in support of our self-distribution of frozen and refrigerated goods, such as dairy, deli and frozen products. We regularly analyze and rebalance the distribution network with a goal of ensuring that it remains efficient and provides the service levels our stores require. See Properties below for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers. Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers and is delivered to our stores by our private fleet and by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. In addition, vendors or third-party distributors deliver or ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores. Seasonality The nature of our business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, our operating profit has been greater in the fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas selling season, as compared with operating profit in each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, new store openings, remodels, relocations, store closings, and weather patterns. See Item 7. Management s Discussion Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for further discussion of seasonality. Our Competition We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, customers, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, service offerings, in-stock consistency, customer service, promotional activity, employees, and market share. We compete with discount stores and many other retailers, including mass merchandise, warehouse club, grocery, drug, convenience, variety, online, and certain specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Big Lots, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Kroger, Aldi, Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid, among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to secure better arrangements from suppliers than we can. Competition is intense and we believe it will continue to be so, with certain competitors reducing their store locations while others move into or increase their presence in our geographic and product markets and increase the availability of mobile, web-based and other digital technology to facilitate a more convenient and competitive online and in-store customer shopping experience. We believe that we differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering competitive prices in a convenient, small-store format. We are able to maintain competitive prices due in part to our low-cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows us to keep our average product costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See