ITEM 1. BUSINESS 4 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 21 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 21 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 22 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 22 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 22 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 25 ITEM 6. RESERVED 25 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 26 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 40 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 41 Report of Ernst Young, LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID: 42 ) 41 Consolidated Balance Sheets 43 Consolidated Statements of Income 44 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 45 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity 46 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 47 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 48 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 64 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 64 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 65 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 66 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 66 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 67 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 68 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 68 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 68 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 69 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 76 SIGNATURES 77 2 Table of Contents INTRODUCTION General This report contains references to years 2022, 2021, 2020 and 2019, which represent fiscal years ending or ended February 3, 2023, January 28, 2022, January 29, 2021 and January 31, 2020, respectively. Our fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to January 31. Our 2022 fiscal year will consist of 53 weeks, while each of the remaining years listed consists of 52 weeks. All of the discussion and analysis in this report should be read with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and tradenames may appear in this report without the or TM symbol which is not intended to indicate that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the right to these trademarks and tradenames. Cautionary Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws throughout this report, particularly under the headings Business, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 7 Commitments and Contingencies, among others. You can identify these statements because they are not limited to historical fact or they use words such as may, will, should, could, can, would, believe, anticipate, project, plan, expect, estimate, goal, seek, ensure, potential, opportunity, intend, predict, committed, likely, continue, strive, aim, scheduled, focused on, or subject to and similar expressions that concern our strategies, plans, initiatives, intentions or beliefs about future occurrences or results. For example, all statements relating to, among others, our estimated and projected expenditures, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; our expectations regarding economic and competitive market conditions; our plans and objectives for, and expectations regarding, future operations, growth and initiatives, including but not limited to the number of planned store openings, remodels and relocations, store formats or concepts, progress of our strategic (including our non-consumables and digital initiatives, DG Fresh, Fast Track, and pOpshelf), merchandising, margin enhancing, and distribution/transportation efficiency (including self-distribution) initiatives, and international expansion plans; trends in sales of consumable and non-consumable products, customer traffic and basket size; level of future costs and expenses; expectations regarding inflationary and labor pressures, fuel prices, and other supply chain challenges; potential future stock repurchases and cash dividends; anticipated borrowing under our unsecured revolving credit agreement and our commercial paper program; potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated governmental responses; potential impact of legal or regulatory changes or governmental assistance or stimulus programs and our responses thereto, including the potential increase of federal, state and/or local minimum wage rates/salary levels, as well as changes to SNAP benefits, unemployment benefits, and child tax credits, or potential changes to the corporate tax rate; or expected outcome or effect of pending or threatened legal disputes, litigation or audits are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those which we expected. Many of these statements are derived from our operating budgets and forecasts, which are based on many detailed assumptions that we believe are reasonable. However, it is very difficult to predict the effect of known factors, and we cannot anticipate all factors that could affect future results. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements are disclosed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A and elsewhere in this document (including, without limitation, in conjunction with the forward-looking statements themselves and under the heading Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates ). All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by these and other cautionary statements that we make from time to time in our other SEC filings and public communications. You should evaluate forward-looking statements in the context of these risks and uncertainties and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. These factors may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. We cannot assure you that we will realize the results or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect. Forward-looking statements in this report are made only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation, and specifically disclaim any duty, to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are among the largest discount retailers in the United States by number of stores, with 18,190 stores located in 47 states as of February 25, 2022, with the greatest concentration of stores in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumable items, seasonal items, home products and apparel. Our merchandise includes national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as our own private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national brands. We offer our customers these national brand and private brand products at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) in our convenient small-box locations. Our History J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the name J.L. Turner Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DG , and in December 2013 the entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with KKR sold its remaining shares of our common stock. COVID-19 Pandemic Throughout 2020 and 2021, the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic resulted in widespread and continuing impacts on the global economy and affected our business, as well as our customers, suppliers, and other business partners. In March 2020, we began seeing heightened demand from customers, particularly for consumable products such as paper, food and cleaning products. Shortly thereafter, we also saw a significant increase in demand for many non-consumable products, resulting in a significant overall sales mix shift into non-consumable categories in 2020. Overall, the mix of consumables to non-consumables sales in 2021 remained relatively consistent with 2020. Since 2020, we also have seen a shift in consumer shopping behavior towards trip consolidation, along with an increase in average transaction amounts. In 2020, we incurred significant expense related to the pandemic, including appreciation bonuses for retail, distribution and transportation employees and health and safety measures. Although some of these expenses continued in 2021, they were not as significant as in 2020. We expect to continue to be affected, although the extent and duration are unknown, by the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on the economy (including governmental response thereto), including its impact on the global supply chain and increased product, distribution, transportation and other costs. Our Business Model Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We continually evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability, cash generation and returns for our shareholders. Our long-term operating priorities are: 1) driving profitable sales growth, 2) capturing growth opportunities, 3) enhancing our position as a low-cost operator, and 4) investing in our diverse teams through development, empowerment and inclusion . For more information on these operating priorities, see the Executive Overview section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 4 Table of Contents From 1990 through 2020, we achieved 31 consecutive years of positive same-store sales growth. As a result of the unusually high sales results we experienced in 2020, we did not achieve positive same-store sales growth in 2021. Notwithstanding the unusual circumstances of 2020 and 2021, we believe that this consistent growth over many years, which has taken place in a variety of economic conditions, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition, although no assurances can be given that we will achieve positive same-store sales growth in any given year. Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition. Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices in convenient locations and our easy in and out shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that we believe distinguishes us from other discount retailers as well as convenience, drug, grocery, online and mass merchant retailers. Our slogan Save time. Save money. Every day! summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited shopping alternatives, as well as in larger and more competitive markets. Our value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following attributes of our business model: Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise. Our research indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of items per merchandise category, which we believe helps us maintain strong purchasing power. We offer nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition to offering our own private brands at substantially lower prices. Convenient Locations. Our stores are conveniently located in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities. We seek to locate our stores in close proximity to our customers, which helps drive customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other large-box retail and grocery stores. Time-Saving Shopping Experience. We strive to provide customers with a highly convenient, easy to navigate shopping experience. Our small-box stores make it easier to get in and out quickly, and our digital tools and offerings help drive even greater convenience and additional access points. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as basic packaged and refrigerated or frozen food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, health and beauty care items, greeting cards and other stationery items, basic apparel, housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among others. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise offering allow our customers to fulfill their requirements for basic goods and minimize their need to shop elsewhere. Substantial Growth Opportunities. We believe we have substantial long-term growth potential in the U.S., and we have identified significant opportunities to add new stores in both existing and new markets, which include our new pOpshelf concept. In addition, we have opportunities to relocate or remodel locations within our existing store base to better serve our customers. Our attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low-cost operating model, and our variety of store formats have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels and provide us significant opportunities to continue our profitable store growth strategy. Our Merchandise We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which we believe helps to drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We offer a wide selection of nationally advertised brands from leading manufacturers. Additionally, our private brand products offer even greater value with options to purchase both products that are of comparable quality to national brands as well as opening price point items, each at substantial discounts to the national brands. Consumables is our largest merchandise category and includes paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, disinfectants, and laundry); packaged food (such as 5 Table of Contents cereals, pasta, canned soups, fruits and vegetables, condiments, spices, sugar and flour); perishables (such as milk, eggs, bread, refrigerated and frozen food, beer and wine); snacks (such as candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (such as over-the-counter medicines and personal care products including soap, body wash, shampoo, cosmetics, dental hygiene and foot care products); pet (such as pet supplies and pet food); and tobacco products. Seasonal products include holiday items, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home office supplies. Home products include kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods. Apparel includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories. The percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows: 2021 2020 2019 Consumables 76.7 % 76.8 % 78.0 % Seasonal 12.2 % 12.1 % 11.7 % Home products 6.8 % 6.5 % 5.8 % Apparel 4.3 % 4.6 % 4.5 % Our seasonal and home products categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin. The Dollar General Store The typical Dollar General store is operated by a store manager, one or more assistant store managers, and three or more sales associates. Our stores generally feature a low-cost, no frills building with limited maintenance capital, low operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and capital investment returns. Our stores currently average approximately 7,400 square feet of selling space, and approximately 75% of our stores are located in towns of 20,000 or fewer people. Beginning in 2021, our primary new store format averages approximately 8,500 square feet of selling space. We generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past, and we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In addition, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs. Our store growth over the past three years is summarized in the following table: Stores at Net Beginning Stores Stores Store Stores at Year of Year Opened Closed Increase End of Year 2019 15,370 975 67 908 16,278 2020 16,278 1,000 101 899 17,177 2021 17,177 1,050 97 953 18,130 Our Customers Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers reliance on Dollar General varies from fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most essential needs. We generally locate our stores and plan our merchandise selections to best serve the needs of our core customers, the low and fixed income households often underserved by other retailers (including grocers), and we are focused on helping them make the most of their spending dollars. At the same time, however, Dollar General shoppers from a wide range of income 6 Table of Contents brackets and life stages appreciate our quality merchandise as well as our attractive value and convenience proposition. Our Suppliers We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand merchandise. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited number of items per category, allowing us to keep our average costs low. Our two largest suppliers accounted for approximately 9% and 8%, respectively, of our purchases in 2021. Our private brands come from a wide variety of suppliers. We directly imported approximately 6% of our purchases at cost in 2021. In 2020 and 2021, COVID-19 and its impacts caused disruptions in our supply chain, at times making it more difficult to obtain certain products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand and increasing distribution and transportation costs. We anticipate these COVID-19 effects to persist to some degree, although the ultimate extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects are unknown. Prior to 2020, we had generally been able to obtain sufficient quantities of core merchandise and in cases where one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we generally had been able to obtain alternative sources. In situations where it becomes necessary to secure alternative sources, we may experience increased merchandise costs and supply chain lead time and expenses, a temporary reduction in store inventory levels, and reduced product selection or quality. An inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales. Distribution and Transportation Our stores are currently supported by distribution centers for both refrigerated and non-refrigerated merchandise located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. In addition to our traditional distribution centers, we now operate multiple temperature-controlled distribution facilities in support of DG Fresh , our strategic, multi-phased shift to self-distribution of frozen and refrigerated goods, such as dairy, deli and frozen products. We regularly analyze and rebalance the network to ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service levels our stores require. See Properties below for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers. Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers and is delivered to our stores by our private fleet and by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. In addition, vendors or third-party distributors deliver or ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores. Seasonality The nature of our business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, our operating profit has been greater in the fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas selling season, as compared with operating profit in each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, new store openings, remodels, relocations and store closings. Consumer behavior driven by the COVID-19 pandemic and its accompanying impacts has resulted in a departure from seasonal norms we have experienced in recent years and may continue to disrupt the historical quarterly cadence of our results of operations for an unknown period of time. Our Competition We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, customers, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, service offerings, in-stock consistency, customer service, promotional activity, employees, and market share. We compete with discount stores and many other retailers, including mass merchandise, warehouse club, grocery, drug, convenience, variety, online, and certain specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Big Lots, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Kroger, Aldi, Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid, among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, 7 Table of Contents marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to secure better arrangements from suppliers than we can. Competition is intense and we believe it will continue to be so, with certain competitors reducing their store locations while others move into or increase their presence in our geographic and product markets and increase the availability of mobile, web-based and other digital technology to facilitate a more convenient and competitive online and in-store customer shopping experience. We believe that we differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We are able to maintain competitive prices due in part to our low-cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows us to keep our average product costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See Our Business Model above for further discussion of our competitive situation. Our Intellectual Property We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual property laws, including, without limitation, Dollar General , DG , Clover Valley , trueliving , and p Opshelf along with variations and formatives of these trademarks. We attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration. We also hold an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through at least March 5, 2029 and the Believe Beauty brand through at least March 18, 2025. Human Capital Resources At Dollar General, a foundational element in how we operate is exemplified in our fourth operating priority Investing in our diverse teams through development, empowerment and inclusion. Building on our core value of respecting the dignity and differences of others, our goal is to create a work environment where each employee is encouraged and empowered to bring their unique perspective and voice to work each day. Based on a talent philosophy of Attract, Develop, and Retain , whether an individual works in a store, a distribution center, our store support center or our international offices, over the last 80+ years, we have helped millions of individuals start and progress in their careers, providing employees with numerous opportunities to gain new skills and develop their talents, supported by our award-winning training and development programs. Attract We seek to provide market competitive compensation and benefits packages that attract talent to the organization and then retain and incent employees for performance. Although eligibility for and the level of benefits vary depending on the employee s full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire, and/or length of service, the broad range of benefits we provide or make available may include: medical, prescription, telemedicine, dental and vision plans; flexible spending accounts; disability insurance; 401(k) plan; paid vacation; employee assistance program with access to legal assistance and counseling; healthy lifestyle and disease management programs; education assistance benefits; parental leave; adoption assistance; service award recognition; and a broad range of discounts for other products and services. To help measure the success of our overall employee compensation and benefits programs, we monitor employee applicant flow and staffing levels across the organization, as well as employee turnover, particularly at the store manager level. Develop As a testament to our employee development efforts, in February 2021 we were inducted into Training magazine s Hall of Fame, following two consecutive years as the magazine s top training and development program and rounding out 10 consecutive years among its Top 100 list. In 2021, we estimate we invested over three million training hours in our employees to promote their education and development. 8 Table of Contents Our internal promotion rate helps us measure the success of our development programs. As of February 25, 2022, we employed approximately 163,000 full-time and part-time employees, including divisional and regional managers, district managers, store managers, other store personnel, and distribution center, fleet and administrative personnel. As of the end of 2021, approximately 76% of store managers and thousands of additional employees, including several members of our senior leadership, have been promoted from within our organization. Retain To ensure we are creating an environment where our employees feel respected, safe, empowered, and motivated, we regularly monitor retention and engagement levels across the organization through a variety of means, working to understand what is important to our employees and how we can best continue to meet their evolving needs. Compliance with Governmental Regulations Our operations are subject to the applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate or conduct business. These laws, rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the sale of products, including without limitation product and food safety, marketing and labeling; information security and privacy; labor and employment; employee wages and benefits; health and safety; real property; public accommodations; anti-bribery; financial reporting and disclosure; antitrust and fair competition; anti money laundering; transportation; imports and customs; intellectual property; taxes; and environmental compliance. Although we routinely incur significant costs in complying with the laws and regulations applicable to the Company, and we can make no guarantees that future such costs will not be material, to date, compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Many of our entry-level store employees are paid at rates in line with the applicable state minimum wage, and consequently, in certain situations, increases to such wage rates have increased our labor costs. If federal, state and/or local minimum wage rates/salary levels were to increase significantly and/or rapidly, compliance with such increases could adversely affect our earnings. Additionally, if significant changes in the federal, state or foreign corporate tax rates occur in the future, such change could adversely affect our overall effe