ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 13 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 ITEM 2. Properties 24 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 24 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 27 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 105 ITEM 9B. Other Information 105 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 106 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 106 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 106 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 107 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 108 ITEM 16. 10-K Summary 113 SIGNATURES 114 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS D.R. Horton, Inc. is the largest homebuilding company in the United States as measured by number of homes closed. We construct and sell homes through our operating divisions in 88 markets across 29 states, primarily under the names of D.R. Horton, America s Builder , Emerald Homes, Express Homes and Freedom Homes. Our common stock is included in the S P 500 Index and listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol DHI. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms D.R. Horton, the Company, we and our used herein refer to D.R. Horton, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its predecessors and subsidiaries. Our homebuilding business began in 1978 in Fort Worth, Texas, and our common stock has been publicly traded since 1992. We have expanded and diversified our homebuilding operations geographically over the years by investing available capital into our existing markets, start-up operations in new markets and acquisitions of other homebuilding companies. Our product offerings across our operating markets are broad and diverse. Our homes range in size from 1,000 to more than 4,000 square feet and in price from $150,000 to more than $1,000,000. For the year ended September 30, 2020, we closed 65,388 homes with an average closing price of $299,100. Our business operations consist of homebuilding, a majority-owned residential lot development company, financial services and other activities. Our homebuilding operations are our core business, generating 97% of our consolidated revenues of $20.3 billion, $17.6 billion and $16.1 billion in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our homebuilding operations generate most of their revenues from the sale of completed homes and to a lesser extent from the sale of land and lots. Approximately 91% of our home sales revenue in fiscal 2020 was generated from the sale of single-family detached homes, with the remainder from the sale of attached homes, such as townhomes, duplexes and triplexes. Our position as the most geographically diverse and largest volume homebuilder in the United States provides a strong platform for us to compete for new home sales. In recent years, we have expanded our product offerings to include a broad range of homes for entry-level, move-up, active adult and luxury buyers across our markets. Our entry-level homes at affordable price points have experienced very strong demand from homebuyers, as the entry-level segment of the new home market remains under-served, with low inventory levels relative to demand. During fiscal 2018, we acquired 75% of the outstanding shares of Forestar Group Inc. (Forestar), a publicly traded residential lot development company listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FOR. Forestar is a component of our homebuilding strategy to enhance operational and capital efficiency and returns by expanding relationships with land developers and increasing the portion of our land and lot position controlled under land purchase contracts. At September 30, 2020, we owned 65% of Forestar s outstanding common stock. Our financial services operations provide mortgage financing and title agency services to homebuyers in many of our homebuilding markets. DHI Mortgage, our 100% owned subsidiary, provides mortgage financing services primarily to our homebuyers and sells substantially all of the mortgages it originates and the majority of the related servicing rights to third-party purchasers. DHI Mortgage originates loans in accordance with purchaser guidelines and sells substantially all of its mortgage production shortly after origination. Our 100% owned subsidiary title companies serve as title insurance agents by providing title insurance policies, examination and closing services, primarily to our homebuyers. In addition to our homebuilding, Forestar and financial services operations, we have subsidiaries that engage in other business activities. These subsidiaries conduct insurance-related operations, construct and own income-producing multi-family rental properties, own non-residential real estate including ranch land and improvements and own and operate oil and gas related assets. The operating results of these subsidiaries are immaterial for separate reporting and therefore are grouped together and presented as other. 1 Table of Contents Available Information We make available, as soon as reasonably practicable, on our website, www.drhorton.com , all of our reports required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website under Financial Information and include our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4, and 5, proxy statements and amendments to such reports. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. In addition to our SEC filings, our corporate governance documents, including our Code of Ethical Conduct for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and senior financial officers, are available on the Investor Relations section of our website under Corporate Governance. Our stockholders may also obtain these documents in paper format free of charge upon request made to our Investor Relations department. Our principal executive offices are located at 1341 Horton Circle, Arlington, Texas 76011, and our telephone number is (817) 390-8200. Information on or linked to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K unless expressly noted. OPERATING STRUCTURE AND PROCESSES Following is an overview of our company s operating structure and the significant processes that support our business controls, strategies and performance. Homebuilding Markets Our homebuilding business operates in 88 markets across 29 states, which provides us with geographic diversification in our homebuilding inventory investments and our sources of revenues and earnings. We believe our geographic diversification lowers our operational risks by mitigating the effects of local and regional economic cycles, and it also enhances our earnings potential by providing more diverse opportunities to invest in our business. 2 Table of Contents We conduct our homebuilding operations in the geographic regions, states and markets listed below, and we conduct our financial services operations in many of these markets. Our homebuilding operating divisions are aggregated into six reporting segments, also referred to as reporting regions, which comprise the markets below. Our financial statements and the notes thereto contain additional information regarding segment performance. State Reporting Region/Market State Reporting Region/Market East Region Midwest Region Delaware Central Delaware Colorado Denver Northern Delaware Fort Collins Georgia Savannah Illinois Chicago Maryland Baltimore Indiana Fort Wayne Suburban Washington, D.C. Indianapolis New Jersey Northern New Jersey Iowa Des Moines Southern New Jersey Minnesota Minneapolis/St. Paul North Carolina Asheville Ohio Cincinnati Charlotte Columbus Greensboro/Winston-Salem Raleigh/Durham South Central Region Wilmington Louisiana Baton Rouge Pennsylvania Central Pennsylvania Lake Charles/Lafayette Philadelphia Oklahoma Oklahoma City South Carolina Charleston Texas Austin Columbia Bryan/College Station Greenville/Spartanburg Dallas Hilton Head Fort Worth Myrtle Beach Houston Virginia Northern Virginia Killeen/Temple/Waco Southern Virginia Midland/Odessa New Braunfels/San Marcos Southeast Region San Antonio Alabama Birmingham Huntsville Southwest Region Mobile/Baldwin County Arizona Phoenix Montgomery Tucson Tuscaloosa New Mexico Albuquerque Florida Fort Myers/Naples Gainesville West Region Jacksonville California Bakersfield Lakeland Bay Area Melbourne/Vero Beach Fresno Miami/Fort Lauderdale Los Angeles County Ocala Modesto/Merced Orlando Riverside County Pensacola/Panama City Sacramento Port St. Lucie San Bernardino County Tampa/Sarasota San Diego County Volusia County Hawaii Oahu West Palm Beach Nevada Las Vegas Georgia Atlanta Reno Augusta Oregon Bend Mississippi Gulf Coast Portland/Salem Tennessee Chattanooga Utah Salt Lake City Knoxville Washington Seattle/Tacoma/Everett/Olympia Memphis Spokane Nashville Vancouver 3 Table of Contents When evaluating new or existing homebuilding markets for purposes of capital allocation, we consider local, market-specific factors, including among others: Economic conditions; Employment levels and job growth; Income level of potential homebuyers; Local housing affordability and typical mortgage products utilized; Market for homes at our targeted price points; Availability of land and lots in desirable locations on acceptable terms; Land entitlement and development processes; Availability of qualified subcontractors; New and secondary home sales activity; Competition; Prevailing housing products, features, cost and pricing; and Performance capabilities of our local management team. Economies of Scale We are the largest homebuilding company in the United States in fiscal 2020 as measured by number of homes closed, and we are also one of the largest builders in most of the markets in which we operate. We believe that our national, regional and local scale of operations provides us with benefits that may not be available to the same degree to some other smaller homebuilders, such as: Greater access to and lower cost of capital, due to our balance sheet strength and our lending and capital markets relationships; Volume discounts and rebates from national, regional and local materials suppliers and lower labor rates from certain subcontractors; and Enhanced leverage of our general and administrative activities, which allows us flexibility to adjust to changes in market conditions and compete effectively across our markets. Decentralized Homebuilding Operations We view homebuilding as a local business; therefore, most of our direct homebuilding activities are decentralized to provide flexibility to our local managers in making operational decisions. We believe that our local management teams, who are familiar with local market conditions, have the best information to make many decisions regarding their operations. At September 30, 2020, we had 53 separate homebuilding operating divisions, many of which operate in more than one market area. Generally, each operating division consists of a division president; a controller and accounting personnel; land entitlement, acquisition and development personnel; a sales manager and sales and marketing personnel; a construction manager and construction superintendents; customer service personnel; a purchasing manager and office staff. Our division presidents receive performance-based compensation if they achieve targeted financial and operating metrics related to their operating divisions. Following is a summary of our homebuilding activities that are decentralized in our local operating divisions, and the control and oversight functions that are centralized in our regional and corporate offices. 4 Table of Contents Operating Division Responsibilities Each operating division is responsible for: Site selection, which involves A feasibility study; Soil and environmental reviews; Review of existing zoning and other governmental requirements; Review of the need for and extent of offsite work required to obtain project entitlements; and Financial analysis of the potential project; Negotiating lot purchase, land acquisition and related contracts; Obtaining all necessary land development and home construction approvals; Selecting land development subcontractors and ensuring their work meets our contracted scopes; Selecting building and architectural plans; Selecting home construction subcontractors and ensuring their work meets our contracted scopes; Planning and managing home construction schedules; Determining the pricing for each house plan and options in a given community; Developing and implementing local marketing and sales plans; Coordinating all interactions with customers and real estate brokers during the sales, construction and home closing processes; and Ensuring the quality and timeliness of post-closing service and warranty repairs provided to customers. Centralized Controls We centralize many important risk elements of our homebuilding business through our regional and corporate offices. We have five separate homebuilding regional offices. Generally, each regional office consists of a region president, a chief financial officer, legal counsel and other operational and office support staff. Each of our region presidents and their management teams are responsible for oversight of the operations of a number of homebuilding operating divisions, including: Review and approval of division business plans and budgets; Review and approval of all land and lot acquisition contracts; Review of all business and financial analysis for potential land and lot inventory investments; Oversight of land and home inventory levels; Monitoring division financial and operating performance; and Review of major personnel decisions and division incentive compensation plans. 5 Table of Contents Our corporate executives and corporate office departments are responsible for establishing our operational policies and internal control standards and for monitoring compliance with established policies and controls throughout our operations. The corporate office also has primary responsibility for direct management of certain key risk elements and initiatives through the following centralized functions: Financing; Cash management; Allocation of capital; Issuance and monitoring of inventory investment guidelines; Approval and funding of land and lot acquisitions; Monitoring and analysis of profitability, returns, costs and inventory levels; Risk and litigation management; Environmental assessments of land and lot acquisitions; Technology systems to support management of operations, marketing and financial information; Accounting and management reporting; Income taxes; Internal audit; Public reporting and investor and media relations; Administration of payroll and employee benefits; Negotiation of national purchasing contracts; Administration, reporting and monitoring of customer satisfaction surveys and resolutions of issues; and Approval of major personnel decisions and management incentive compensation plans. Land/Lot Acquisition and Inventory Management We acquire land for use in our homebuilding and Forestar operations after we have completed due diligence and generally after we have obtained the rights (known as entitlements) to begin development or construction work resulting in an acceptable number of residential lots. Before we acquire lots or tracts of land, we complete a feasibility study, which includes soil tests, independent environmental studies, other engineering work and financial analysis. We also evaluate the status of necessary zoning and other governmental entitlements required to develop and use the property for home construction. Although we purchase and develop land primarily to support our homebuilding activities, we may sell land and lots to other developers and homebuilders where we have excess land and lot positions or for other strategic reasons. We also enter into land/lot contracts, in which we obtain the right, but generally not the obligation, to buy land or lots at predetermined prices on a defined schedule commensurate with anticipated home closings or planned development. These contracts generally are non-recourse, which limits our financial exposure to our earnest money deposited into escrow under the terms of the contract and any pre-acquisition due diligence costs we incur. This enables us to control land and lot positions with limited capital investment, which substantially reduces the risks associated with land ownership. 6 Table of Contents We directly acquire almost all of our land and lot positions. We are a party to a small number of joint ventures. Joint ventures are consolidated if we have a controlling interest, or accounted for under the equity method of accounting if we have a significant influence, but not control. We attempt to mitigate our exposure to real estate inventory risks by: Controlling our level of inventory investment and managing our supply of land/lots owned and controlled under purchase contracts to match the expected housing demand in each of our operating markets; Monitoring local market and demographic trends, housing preferences and related economic developments, including the identification of desirable housing submarkets based on the quality of local schools, new job opportunities, local growth initiatives and personal income trends; Utilizing land/lot purchase contracts and seeking to acquire developed lots which are substantially ready for home construction, where possible; and Monitoring and managing the number of speculative homes (homes under construction without an executed sales contract) built in each subdivision. Land Development and Home Construction Substantially all of our land development and home construction work is performed by subcontractors. Subcontractors typically are selected after a competitive bidding process and are retained for a specific subdivision or series of house plans pursuant to a contract that obligates the subcontractor to complete the scope of work at an agreed-upon price. We employ land development managers and construction superintendents to monitor land development and home construction activities, participate in major design and building decisions, coordinate the activities of subcontractors and suppliers, review the work of subcontractors for quality and cost controls and monitor compliance with zoning and building codes. In addition, our construction superintendents interact with our homebuyers during the construction process and instruct buyers on post-closing home maintenance. Our home designs are selected or prepared in each of our markets to appeal to local homebuyers expectations for affordability, home size and features, and our local management teams adjust product offerings to meet buyer demand as necessary. In many communities, we offer optional interior and exterior features to homebuyers for an additional charge. Construction time for our homes depends on the availability of labor, materials and supplies, the weather, the size of the home and other factors. We complete the construction of most homes within two to six months. We typically do not maintain significant inventories of land development or construction materials, except for work in progress materials for active development projects and homes under construction. Generally, the construction materials used in our operations are readily available from numerous sources. We have contracts exceeding one year with certain suppliers of building materials that are cancelable at our option. We are subject to governmental regulations that affect our land development and construction operations. At times, we have experienced delays in receiving the proper approvals from municipalities or other government agencies that have delayed our anticipated development and construction activities in certain communities. Cost Controls We control construction costs by designing our homes efficiently and by obtaining competitive bids for construction materials and labor. We also competitively bid and negotiate pricing from our subcontractors and suppliers based on the volume of services and products we purchase on a local, regional and national basis. We monitor our land development expenditures and construction costs versus budgets for each house and community, and we review our inventory levels, margins, expenses, profitability and returns for each operating market compared to both its business plan and our performance expectations. 7 Table of Contents We control overhead costs by centralizing certain accounting and administrative functions, monitoring staffing and compensation levels and by applying technology to business processes to improve productivity where practical. We review other general and administrative costs to identify efficiencies and savings opportunities in our operating divisions and our regional and corporate offices. We also direct many of our promotional activities toward local real estate brokers and digital marketing initiatives, which we believe are efficient uses of our marketing expenditures. Marketing and Sales We primarily use the D.R. Horton, Emerald Homes, Express Homes and Freedom Homes brand names to market and sell our homes. Our D.R. Horton branded communities are the core of our business and account for the majority of our home closings, focusing primarily on the first time and first time move-up homebuyer. Our Emerald branded communities appeal to buyers in search of higher-end move-up and luxury homes. Our Express branded communities primarily accommodate a segment of entry-level buyers who are focused on affordability. Our Freedom Homes brand offers homes at affordable price points to active adult buyers seeking a low-maintenance lifestyle. The percentage of home closings and home sales revenue contributed by each brand during fiscal 2020 was as follows: Percentage of Home Closings Percentage of Home Sales Revenue D.R. Horton 63 % 66 % Emerald 2 % 3 % Express 32 % 28 % Freedom 3 % 3 % Total 100 % 100 % We also use names of acquired companies for a period of time after the acquisition. We currently utilize the Pacific Ridge Homes brand in our Seattle, Washington market; the Lexington Homes brand in our Spokane, Washington market; and the Terramor Homes brand in our Raleigh, North Carolina market. The product offerings in all of these markets are similar to, and included with, our D.R. Horton branded communities shown above. We market and sell our homes primarily through commissioned employees, and the majority of our home closings also involve an independent real estate broker. We typically conduct home sales from sales offices located in furnished model homes in each subdivision, and we generally do not offer our model homes for sale until the completion of a subdivision. Our sales personnel assist prospective homebuyers by providing floor plans and price information, demonstrating the features and layouts of our homes and assisting with the selection of options, when available. We train and inform our sales personnel regarding construction schedules and marketing and advertising plans. As market conditions warrant, we may provide potential homebuyers with incentives, such as discounts or free upgrades, to be competitive in a particular market or to attain our targeted sales pace. We market our homes and communities to prospective homebuyers and real estate brokers digitally, through email, search engine marketing, social media and our company website and other real estate websites, in addition to print media and advertisement. We also use billboards, radio, television, magazine and newspaper advertising locally as necessary. We attempt to position our subdivisions in locations that are desirable to potential homebuyers and convenient to or visible from local traffic patterns, which helps to reduce advertising costs. Model homes play an important role in our marketing efforts, and we expend significant effort and resources to create an attractive atmosphere in our model homes. We also build speculative homes in most of our communities, which allow us to compete effectively with existing homes available in the market and improve our profits and returns. These homes enhance our marketing and sales efforts to prospective homebuyers who are renters or who are relocating to these markets and require a home within a short time frame, as well as to independent brokers who represent these homebuyers. We determine our speculative homes strategy in each market based on local market factors, such as new job growth, the number of job relocations, housing demand and supply, seasonality, current sales contract cancellation trends and our past experience in the market. We maintain a level of speculative home inventory in each community based on our current and planned sales pace, and we monitor and adjust speculative home inventory on an ongoing basis as conditions warrant. 8 Table of Contents Sales Contracts and Backlog Our sales contracts require an earnest money deposit which varies in amount across our markets and communities. Additionally, customers are generally required to pay additional deposits when they select options or upgrade features for their homes. Our sales contracts include a financing contingency which permits customers to cancel and receive a refund of their deposit if they cannot obtain mortgage financing at prevailing or specified interest rates within a specified period. Our contracts may include other contingencies, such as the sale of an existing home. We either retain or refund customer deposits on cancelled sales contracts, depending upon the applicable provisions of the contract or other circumstances. Sales order backlog represents homes under contract but not yet closed at the end of the period. At September 30, 2020, the value of our backlog of sales orders was $8.2 billion (26,683 homes), an increase of 98% from $4.1 billion (13,613 homes) at September 30, 2019. The average sales price of homes in backlog was $306,800 at September 30, 2020, up slightly from the $304,100 average at September 30, 2019. Many of the contracts in our sales order backlog are subject to contingencies, such as those described above, which can result in cancellations. As a percentage of gross sales orders, cancellations of sales contracts were 20% in fiscal 2020 compared to 21% in fiscal 2019. The length of time between the signing of a sales contract for a home and delivery of the home to the buyer (closing) is generally from one to six months; therefore, substantially all of the homes in our sales backlog at September 30, 2020 are scheduled to close in fiscal 2021. Customer Service and Quality Control Our operating divisions are responsible for pre-closing quality control inspections and responding to customers post-closing needs. We believe that a prompt and courteous response to homebuyers needs during and after construction reduces post-closing repair costs, enhances our reputation for quality and service and ultimately leads to repeat and referral business from the real estate community and homebuyers. We typically provide our homebuyers with a ten-year limited warranty for major defects in structural elements such as framing components and foundation systems, a two-year limited warranty on major mechanical systems, and a one-year limited warranty on other construction components. The subcontractors who perform the actual construction also provide us with warranties on workmanship and are generally prepared to respond to us and the homeowner promptly upon request. In addition, some of our suppliers provide manufacturer s warranties on specified products installed in the home. Single-Family Rental Properties During fiscal 2020, several of our homebuilding divisions began constructing and leasing homes as single-family rental properties. After these rental properties are constructed and achieve a stabilized level of leased occupancy, the properties in each community are expected to be marketed in bulk for sale. At September 30, 2020, our homebuilding fixed assets included $87.2 million of assets related to our single-family rental platform representing approximately 740 single-family rental homes and finished lots, including approximately 440 completed homes. There were no bulk sales of single-family rental properties in fiscal 2020. Forestar Residential Lot Development Operations During fiscal 2018, we acquired 75% of the outstanding shares of Forestar. Forestar is a residential lot development company with operations in 49 markets across 21 states as of September 30, 2020. We owned approximately 65% of Forestar s outstanding common stock at September 30, 2020. Forestar is a component of our homebuilding strategy to enhance operational efficiency and returns by expanding relationships with land developers and increasing the portion of our land and lot position controlled under land purchase contracts. Forestar s strategy is focused on making investments in land acquisition and development to expand its residential lot development business across a geographically diversified national platform and consolidating market share in the fragmented U.S. lot development industry. Our homebuilding operations acquire finished lots f