Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 32 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 Information About Our Executive Officers 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Not Applicable 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 105 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 105 Item 9B. Other Information 105 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 105 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 106 Item 11. Executive Compensation 106 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 106 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 106 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 106 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 107 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 107 In this Annual Report, the terms Danaher or the Company refer to Danaher Corporation, Danaher Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries or the consolidated subsidiaries of Danaher Corporation, as the context requires. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial data in this Annual Report refer to continuing operations only. INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, in other documents we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), in our press releases, webcasts, conference calls, materials delivered to shareholders and other communications, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. All statements other than historical factual information are forward-looking statements, including without limitation statements regarding: projections of revenue, expenses, profit, profit margins, pricing, tax rates, tax provisions, cash flows, pension and benefit obligations and funding requirements, our liquidity position or other projected financial measures; management s plans and strategies for future operations, including statements relating to anticipated operating performance, cost reductions, restructuring activities, new product and service developments, competitive strengths or market position, acquisitions and the integration thereof, divestitures, spin-offs, split-offs, initial public offerings, other securities offerings or other distributions, strategic opportunities, stock repurchases, dividends and executive compensation and potential executive stock sales or purchases; growth, declines and other trends in markets we sell into; new or modified laws, regulations and accounting pronouncements; future regulatory approvals and the timing and conditionality thereof; outstanding claims, legal proceedings, tax audits and assessments and other contingent liabilities; future foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates; the potential or anticipated direct or indirect impact of public health crises, climate change, military conflicts or other man-made or natural disasters on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition; general economic and capital markets conditions; the anticipated timing of any of the foregoing; assumptions underlying any of the foregoing; and any other statements that address events or developments that Danaher intends or believes will or may occur in the future. Terminology such as believe, anticipate, should, could, intend, will, plan, expect, estimate, project, target, may, possible, potential, forecast and positioned and similar references to future periods are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements are accompanied by such words. Forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by our management in light of their experience and perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties set forth below and under