ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 ITEM 2. Properties 29 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 30 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 Executive Officers of the Company 30 PART II ITEM 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 33 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 61 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 62 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 62 ITEM 9B. Other Information 62 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 63 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 63 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 63 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 63 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 63 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 64 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 68 SIGNATURES 69 Consolidated Financial Information The Walt Disney Company 70 TABL E OF CONTENTS PART I ITEM 1. Business The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in the following business segments: Media Networks; Parks, Experiences and Products; Studio Entertainment; and Direct-to-Consumer International (DTCI). In October 2020, the Company announced a strategic reorganization of our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate the growth of our direct-to-consumer (DTC) strategy. The operations of the Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and DTCI segments were reorganized into four groups: three content groups (Studios, General Entertainment and Sports), which are focused on developing and producing content that will be used across all of our traditional and DTC platforms and a distribution group, which is focused on distribution and commercialization activities across these platforms and which has full accountability for media and entertainment operating results globally. The terms Company , we , our and us are used in this report to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which businesses are conducted. COVID-19 Pandemic During fiscal 2020 and continuing into fiscal 2021, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread impacted our segments in a number of ways, most significantly at Parks, Experiences and Products where our theme parks were closed or operating at significantly reduced capacity for a significant portion of the year, cruise ship sailings and guided tours were suspended since late in the second quarter and retail stores were closed for a significant portion of the year. We also had an adverse impact on our merchandise licensing business. Our Studio Entertainment segment has delayed, or in some cases, shortened or cancelled, theatrical releases, and stage play performances have been suspended since late in the second quarter. We also had adverse impacts on advertising sales at Media Networks and Direct-to-Consumer International. Since March 2020, we have experienced significant disruptions in the production and availability of content, including the shift of key live sports programming from our third quarter to the fourth quarter and into fiscal 2021 as well as the suspension of production of most film and television content since late in the second quarter, although some film and television production resumed in the fourth quarter. The impact of these disruptions and the extent of their adverse impact on our financial and operating results will be dictated by the length of time that such disruptions continue, which will, in turn, depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the impacts of COVID-19, and among other things, the impact of governmental actions imposed in response to COVID-19 and individuals and companies risk tolerance regarding health matters going forward. As some of our businesses have reopened, we have incurred additional costs to address government regulations and the safety of our employees, talent and guests. The reopening or closure of our businesses is dependent on applicable government requirements, which vary by location, are subject to ongoing changes, which could result from increasing COVID-19 cases. Human Capital The Company s key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop the highest quality talent. To support these objectives, the Company s human resources programs are designed to develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions for the future; reward and support employees through competitive pay, benefit, and perquisite programs; enhance the Company s culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more engaging and inclusive; acquire talent and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing, diverse workforce; engage employees as brand ambassadors of the Company s content, products and experiences; and evolve and invest in technology, tools, and resources to enable employees at work. The Company employed approximately 203,000 people as of October 3, 2020. Our global workforce is comprised of approximately 80% full time and 20% part time employees, with nearly 1% of the part time population being seasonal employees. Of the total population as of October 3, 2020, approximately 155,000 of our employees worked in the Parks, Experiences and Products segment. Some examples of key programs and initiatives that are focused to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include: Diversity and inclusion (D I). Our D I objectives are to build teams that reflect the life experiences of our audiences, while employing and supporting a diverse array of voices in our creative and production content. Established six pillars that serve as the foundation for our D I commitments transparency, accountability, representation, content, community, and culture Created a pipeline of next-generation creative executives from underrepresented backgrounds through programs such as the Executive Incubator, Creative Talent Development and Inclusion (CTDI), and the Disney Launchpad: Shorts Incubator 1 TABL E OF CONTENTS Championed targeted development programs for underrepresented talent Hosted a series of culture-changing, innovation and learning opportunities to spark dialogue among employees, leaders, Disney talent and external experts Sponsored over 70 employee-led Business Employee Resource Groups (BERGs) that represent and support the diverse communities that make up our workforce. The BERGs facilitate networking and connections with peers, outreach and mentoring, leadership and skill development and cross-cultural business innovation Health, wellness and family resources. Disney s benefit offerings are designed to meet the varied and evolving needs of a diverse workforce across businesses and geographies. Because we want our employees and their families to thrive, this year, we enhanced the ways we help our employees care for themselves and their families, especially in response to COVID-19 Healthcare options for employees in Florida and Southern California, aimed at reducing out-of-pocket costs Coverage of all COVID-19 testing and treatment under all Company medical plans at no cost to the employees and dependents Child care programs for employees, including access to onsite/community centers, enhanced back-up care choices to include personal caregivers, child care referral assistance and center discounts, homework help and a variety of parenting educational resources Free mental and behavioral health resources, including on-demand access to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for employees and their dependents Disney Aspire. We support the long-term career aspirations of our hourly employees through education and personal development. We pay tuition costs at a network of schools and aim to help our hourly employees put their career goals within reach by equipping them with degree programs, coaching and job skills designed for a rapidly changing workplace and workforce Investment of $150 million in Aspire s first five years to cover 100% of tuition, books and education fees Access to a wide variety of degree, certificate, high school completion, college start, language learning and trades programs Chosen fields of study do not have to be related to an employee s current position, and employees do not have to stay at the Company upon completion of their studies Talent Development. We prioritize and invest in creating opportunities to help employees grow and build their careers, through a multitude of training and development programs. These include online, instructor-led and on-the-job learning formats as well as executive talent and succession planning paired with an individualized development approach Community Social Impact. We are committed to providing comfort to those in need and inspiration and opportunity to those who want to improve their world. One primary way we do this is through our unique employee volunteer program - Disney VoluntEARS. Throughout the year, employees make a positive impact in their local communities and have found a multitude of special ways to continue volunteering during the pandemic Due to the current climate, including COVID-19 impacts, and changing environment in which we are operating, the Company has generated efficiencies in its staffing, including limiting hiring to critical business roles, furloughs and reductions-in-force. As part of these actions, the employment of approximately 32,000 employees primarily at Parks, Experiences and Products will terminate in the first half of fiscal 2021. Additionally, as of October 3, 2020, approximately 37,000 employees who are not scheduled for employment termination were on furlough as a result of COVID-19 s impact on our businesses. Direct-to-Consumer In November 2019, the Company launched Disney+, a subscription-based DTC video streaming service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic branded content in the U.S. and four other countries and has expanded to select Western European countries in the Spring of 2020. In April, our Hotstar service in India was converted to Disney+Hotstar, and in June 2020, current subscribers of the Disney Deluxe service in Japan were converted to Disney+. In September 2020, Disney+ was launched in additional European countries and Disney+Hotstar was launched in Indonesia. In November 2020, Disney+ was launched in Latin America. Additional launches are planned for various Asia-Pacific territories in calendar 2021. The Company also plans to launch a general entertainment DTC video streaming offering under the Star brand outside the U.S. in calendar year 2021. TFCF Acquisition On March 20, 2019, the Company acquired the outstanding capital stock of Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., a diversified global media and entertainment company, which was subsequently renamed TFCF Corporation (TFCF). As a result of the 2 TABL E OF CONTENTS acquisition, the Company s ownership interest in Hulu, LLC (Hulu), a general entertainment DTC video streaming service, increased to 60% ( 67 % as of October 3, 2020), and the Company started consolidating the results of Hulu as of the acquisition date. See Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the TFCF and Hulu transactions. MEDIA NETWORKS Significant operations: Disney, ESPN, Freeform, FX and National Geographic branded domestic cable networks ABC branded broadcast television network and eight owned domestic television stations Television production and distribution A 50% equity investment in A+E Television Networks (A+E) Significant revenues: Affiliate fees - Fees charged to multi-channel video programming distributors (i.e. cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top (OTT) (e.g. Hulu, YouTube TV) service providers) (MVPDs) and to television stations affiliated with the ABC Network for the right to deliver our programming to their customers Advertising - Sales of advertising time/space on our domestic networks and related platforms ( ratings-based ad sales , which excludes advertising on digital platforms that is not ratings-based), and the sale of advertising time on our domestic television stations. Ratings-based ad sales are generally determined using viewership measured with Nielsen ratings. Non-ratings-based advertising on digital platforms is reported by DTCI TV/SVOD distribution - Licensing fees and other revenues from the right to use our television programs and productions and revenue from content transactions with other Company segments ( program sales ) Significant expenses: Operating expenses consisting primarily of programming and production costs, participations and residuals expense, technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs Selling, general and administrative costs Depreciation and amortization Domestic Cable Networks Our domestic cable networks produce their own programs and also acquire programming rights from our television and film production operations and third parties. The majority of the domestic cable networks revenue is derived from affiliate fees and advertising sales. Generally, the Company s cable networks provide programming under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs that include contractually specified rates on a per subscriber basis. The amounts that we can charge to MVPDs for our cable network programming is largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market for programming services. The ability to sell advertising time and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. We also sell programs developed by our cable networks worldwide to television broadcasters, to subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) services (such as Netflix and Amazon) and in home entertainment formats (such as DVD, Blu-ray and electronic home video license). A significant portion of our programs are sold to the DTCI segment for use on our DTC offerings. As such, we are forgoing certain licensing revenue from the sale of this content to third parties in TV/SVOD markets. 3 TABL E OF CONTENTS The Company s significant domestic cable channels and the number of subscribers (in millions) as estimated by Nielsen Media Research (1) as of September 2020 (except where noted) are as follows: Estimated Subscribers (2) Disney Disney Channel 85 Disney Junior 66 Disney XD 66 ESPN ESPN 84 ESPN2 84 ESPNU 62 ESPNEWS 62 SEC Network (3) 57 Freeform 85 FX FX 86 FXX 83 FXM 57 National Geographic National Geographic 85 National Geographic Wild 60 (1) As a result of COVID-19, we understand there have been disruptions in Nielsen Media Research s ability to collect in-home data, which may have had an impact on the estimated subscriber counts at September 2020. (2) Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. (3) Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure this channel, estimated subscribers are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2019. Disney Branded television channels include Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD. Programming for these channels includes internally developed and acquired programming. The Disney branded channels also provide programming for video-on-demand (VOD) services and through the DisneyNOW App and website, both of which are operated by DTCI. Disney Channel - the domestic Disney Channel airs original series and movie programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids ages 2 to 14. Disney Channel develops and produces shows for exhibition on its channel, including live-action comedy series, animated programming and preschool series, as well as original movies. Disney Channel also airs content from Disney s theatrical film and television programming library. Disney Junior - the domestic Disney Junior channel airs programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids ages 2 to 7 and their parents and caregivers. The channel features animated and live-action programming that blends Disney s storytelling and characters with learning. Disney Junior also airs as a programming block on the Disney Channel. Disney XD - the domestic Disney XD channel airs programming 24 hours a day targeted to kids ages 6 to 11. The channel features a mix of live-action and animated programming. ESPN ESPN is a multimedia sports entertainment company owned 80% by the Company and 20% by Hearst Corporation (Hearst). ESPN operates nine 24-hour domestic television sports channels: ESPN and ESPN2 (both of which are sports channels dedicated to professional and college sports as well as sports news and original programming), ESPNU (which is devoted to college sports), ESPNEWS (which simulcasts weekday ESPN Radio programming, re-airs select ESPN studio shows and airs a variety of other programming), SEC Network (which is dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics), ESPN Classic (which airs rebroadcasts of famous sporting events, sports documentaries and sports-themed movies), Longhorn Network (which is dedicated to The University of Texas athletics), ESPN Deportes (which airs professional and 4 TABL E OF CONTENTS college sports, as well as studio shows in Spanish), and ACC Network (which is dedicated to Atlantic Coast Conference college athletics). ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN holds rights for various professional and college sports programming including college football (including bowl games and the College Football Playoff) and basketball, the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), US Open Tennis, the Professional Golfers Association (PGA) Championship, the Women s National Basketball Association (WNBA), various soccer rights, Top Rank Boxing, the Wimbledon Championships and the Masters golf tournament. ESPN provides programming for the following, which are operated by DTCI: ESPN.com delivers sports news, information and video on internet-connected devices, with approximately 20 editions in three languages globally. In the U.S., ESPN.com also features live video streams of ESPN channels to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have limited access to certain content. ESPN App delivers scores, news, stories, highlights, short form video, podcasts and live audio, with fourteen editions in three languages globally. In the U.S., the ESPN App also features live video streams of ESPN s linear channels and exclusive events to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have limited access to certain content. The ESPN App is available for download on various internet-connected devices. ESPN+ is a multi-sports subscription offering available through ESPN.com and the ESPN App. ESPN also operates the following: ESPN Radio distributes talk and play-by-play programming in the U.S. ESPN Radio network programming is carried on approximately 400 terrestrial stations, including four ESPN owned stations in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Dallas, and on satellite and internet radio. ESPN owns and operates the following events: ESPYs (annual awards show); X Games (winter and summer action sports competitions); and a portfolio of collegiate sporting events including: bowl games, basketball games, softball games and post-season award shows. Freeform Freeform is a channel targeted to viewers ages 18 to 34. Freeform produces original live-action programming, acquires programming rights from our television and theatrical production businesses and from third parties, and features branded holiday programming events. Freeform content is also available through VOD services and through the Freeform App and website, both of which are operated by DTCI. FX Branded television channels include FX, FXM and FXX. Programming for these channels includes internally developed and acquired programming. Internally produced programming for the 2020/2021 season includes two returning and one new one-hour dramas, nine returning half-hour comedies, and three new and one returning non-scripted series. FX - is a general entertainment channel that airs original series, acquired television series and films including content from the Company s libraries. FXX - is a general entertainment channel targeted to young adults that airs acquired television series and films as well as content from the Company s film and television libraries. The channel also airs original television series. FXM - is a television channel that primarily airs films from the Company s library or acquired from third parties. National Geographic National Geographic operates branded television channels (National Geographic, Nat Geo Wild and Nat Geo Mundo (collectively the National Geographic Channels)) and publishes the National Geographic magazines. The National Geographic Channels air scripted and documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. National Geographic is owned 73% by the Company and 27% by the National Geographic Society. Broadcasting Our broadcasting business includes a domestic broadcast network, television production and distribution operations, and eight owned domestic television stations. Domestic Broadcast Television Network The Company operates the ABC Television Network (ABC), which as of October 3, 2020, had affiliation agreements with approximately 240 local television stations reaching almost 100% of U.S. television households. ABC broadcasts programs in the primetime, daytime, late night, news and sports dayparts . 5 TABL E OF CONTENTS ABC produces its own programs and also acquires programming rights from third parties as well as entities that are owned by or affiliated with the Company. ABC derives the majority of its revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees. The ability to sell advertising time and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on broadcast networks. ABC also receives fees from affiliated television stations for the right to broadcast ABC programming. ABC network programming is available digitally on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have more limited access to on-demand episodes. ABC provides online access to in-depth worldwide news and certain other programming through various Company operated and third party distribution platforms. Television Production and Distribution ABC Signature (previously ABC Studios), 20th Television (previously Twentieth Century Fox Television) and Touchstone Television (previously Fox 21 Television Studios) produce the majority of the Company s general entertainment television programs. Program development is carried out in collaboration with writers, producers and creative teams, with a focus on one-hour dramas and half-hour comedies, primarily for primetime broadcasts. Programming produced either for our networks or for third-party platforms for the 2020/2021 television season includes: ABC Signature - seven returning and two new one-hour dramas and five returning and two new half-hour comedies 20th Television and Touchstone Television - fifteen returning and eight new one-hour dramas and nine returning and four new half-hour comedies The Company also produces Jimmy Kimmel Live for late night and a variety of primetime specials, as well as syndicated, news and daytime programming. We distribute the Company s productions worldwide to television broadcasters and SVOD services and in home entertainment formats. The Company has a significant library of television programming spanning approximately 70 years of production history. Series with four or more seasons include approximately 55 one-hour dramas and 40 half-hour comedies. Domestic Television Stations The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top ten television household markets in the U.S. The television stations derive the majority of their revenues from advertising sales. The stations also receive affiliate fees from MVPDs. All of our television stations are affiliated with ABC and collectively reach approximately 20% of the nation s television households. Generally, each owned station broadcasts three digital channels: the first consists of local, ABC and syndicated programming; the second is Localish (formerly the Live Well Network); and the third is the LAFF Network. The stations we own are as follows: TV Station Market Television Market Ranking (1) WABC New York, NY 1 KABC Los Angeles, CA 2 WLS Chicago, IL 3 WPVI Philadelphia, PA 4 KGO San Francisco, CA 6 KTRK Houston, TX 8 WTVD Raleigh-Durham, NC 27 KFSN Fresno, CA 55 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2020. Equity Investments The Company has investments in media businesses that are accounted for under the equity method, and the Company s share of the financial results for these investments is reported as Equity in the income (loss) of investees, net in the 6 TABL E OF CONTENTS Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company s significant equity investments reported in the Media Networks segment are as follows: A+E A+E is owned 50% by the Company and 50% by Hearst. A+E operates a variety of cable channels: A E which offers entertainment programming including original reality and scripted series HISTORY which offers original series and event-driven specials Lifetime and Lifetime Real Women which offer female-focused programming Lifetime Movie Network (LMN) which offers female-focused movies FYI which offers contemporary lifestyle programming A+E also has a 50% ownership interest in Viceland, a channel offering lifestyle-oriented documentaries and reality series aimed at millennial audiences. A+E programming is available in approximately 200 countries and territories. A+E s networks are distributed internationally under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs. A+E programming is also sold to international television broadcasters and SVOD services. The number of domestic subscribers (in millions) for A+E channels as estimated by Nielsen Media Research (1) as of September 2020 is as follows: Estimated Subscribers (2) A E 84 HISTORY 85 Lifetime 84 LMN 61 FYI 50 Viceland 63 (1) As a result of COVID-19, we understand there have been disruptions in Nielsen Media Research s ability to collect in-home data, which may have had an impact on the estimated subscriber counts at September 2020. (2) Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts. CTV ESPN holds a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns television channels in Canada, including The Sports Networks (TSN) 1-5, Le R seau des Sports (RDS), RDS2, RDS Info, ESPN Classic Canada, Discovery Canada and Animal Planet Canada. Competition and Seasonality The Company s Media Networks businesses compete for viewers primarily with other broadcast and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as DTC services and video games. With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines and billboards. Our television and radio stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in local market areas. The Company s Media Networks businesses face competition from other networks for carriage by MVPDs. The Company s contractual agreements with MVPDs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place. The Company s Media Networks businesses also compete with other media and entertainment companies, independent production companies, SVOD providers and direct-to-consumer services for the acquisition of sports rights, talent, show concepts, scripted and other programming, and exhibition outlets. The Company s internet websites and digital products compete with other websites and entertainment products. 7 TABL E OF CONTENTS Advertising revenues at Media Networks are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate fees are generally collected ratably throughout the year. Federal Regulation Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary fines, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment include the following: Licensing of television and radio stations . Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses a