ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 16 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 52 ITEM 2. Properties 52 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 57 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 57 PART II. 58 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 58 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 61 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 65 ITEM 7A . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 96 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 99 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 196 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 196 ITEM 9B. Other Information 197 PART III. 198 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 198 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 198 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 198 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 198 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 198 PART IV. 199 ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 199 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 208 SIGNATURES 209 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company Digital Realty Trust, Inc., through its controlling interest in Digital Realty Trust, L.P. (the Operating Partnership) and the subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership, (collectively, we, our, us or the Company) is a leading global provider of data center, colocation and interconnection solutions for customers across a variety of industry verticals ranging from cloud and information technology services, communications and social networking to financial services, manufacturing, energy, healthcare, and consumer products. Digital Realty Trust, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership, is the entity through which Digital Realty Trust, Inc., a Maryland corporation, conducts its business of owning, acquiring, developing and operating data centers. Digital Realty Trust, Inc. operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2019, our portfolio consisted of 225 data centers (including 41 data centers held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures), of which 147 are located in the United States, 41 are located in Europe, 19 are located in Latin America, 10 are located in Asia, 5 are located in Australia and 3 are located in Canada. Digital Realty Trust, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. Digital Realty Trust, L.P. was organized in the state of Maryland on July 21, 2004. Our principal executive offices are located at Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3200, San Francisco, California 94111. Our telephone number is (415) 738-6500. Our website is www.digitalrealty.com . The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Acquisitions On October 29, 2019, Digital Realty Trust, Inc., Digital Intrepid Holding B.V., an indirect subsidiary of Digital Realty Trust, Inc., which we refer to as the Buyer, and InterXion Holding N.V., which we refer to as InterXion, entered into a purchase agreement, or the Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, the Buyer will commence an exchange offer, or the Offer, to purchase all of the outstanding ordinary shares of InterXion, or InterXion Shares, in exchange for shares of common stock of Digital Realty Trust, Inc., or the Offer Consideration. The transaction is expected to close in 2020 and is subject to customary closing conditions. We refer to the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement as the InterXion Combination or the InterXion Transactions. On November 1, 2019, we closed the joint venture with Mapletree Investments and Mapletree Industrial Trust, which we refer to collectively as Mapletree, on three existing Turn-Key Flex data centers located in Ashburn, Virginia. The Company retained a 20% ownership interest in the joint venture, and Mapletree acquired the remaining 80% stake for approximately $0.8 billion. We will continue to operate and manage these facilities. The second tranche of the Mapletree transaction, the sale of 10 fully-leased Powered Base Building properties for $557 million, closed in January 2020. On December 20, 2018, the Operating Partnership and Stellar Participa es S.A. (formerly Stellar Partici p a es L t d a.), a Brazilian subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, completed the acquisition of Ascenty, a leading data center provider in Brazil, for cash and equity consideration of approximately $2.0 billion, including cash assumed. We refer to this transaction as the Ascenty Acquisition. In March 2019, we formed a joint venture with Brookfield Infrastructure, an affiliate of Brookfield Asset Management, one of the largest owners and operators of infrastructure assets globally. Brookfield invested approximately $702 million in exchange for approximately 49% of the total equity interests in the joint venture which owns and operates Ascenty. A subsidiary of the Operating Partnership retained the remaining equity interest in the Ascenty joint venture. As of March 27, 2019, we deconsolidated Ascenty and recorded our retained interest as an investment in unconsolidated joint ventures due to shared control with Brookfield. 1 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements On September 14, 2017, we completed the acquisition of DuPont Fabros Technology, Inc., or DFT, in an all-stock merger, which we refer to as the DFT Merger, for equity consideration of approximately $6.2 billion. We believe this transaction expanded our reach with a complementary portfolio in top U.S. metropolitan areas while enhancing our ability to meet the growing demand for hyper-scale and public cloud solutions and solidifying our blue-chip customer base. On July 5, 2016, we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of eight high-quality, carrier-neutral data centers in Europe, which we refer to as the European Portfolio Acquisition, for a total purchase price of $818.9 million (based on the exchange rate at the date of acquisition). We believe the acquisition of these highly strategic assets in Amsterdam, Frankfurt and London enhanced our global colocation and interconnection platform. On October 9, 2015, we acquired Telx Holdings, Inc., or Telx, a leading U.S. provider of data center colocation, interconnection and cloud enablement solutions, which we refer to as the Telx Acquisition, for approximately $1.9 billion. We believe this was a transformational transaction that established us as a leading provider of colocation and interconnection solutions in the U.S., and was highly complementary to our existing data center solutions. Industry Background The digital economy continues to grow and change how enterprises across all industries create and deliver value. Companies increasingly need to operate ubiquitously, on-demand and with real-time intelligence serving customers, partners and employees across multiple channels, business functions and points of business presence. Computational processing power requirements continue to advance, data traffic is growing, and the volume of data that enterprises generate, transmit, process, analyze, monitor and manage is expanding dramatically. The Internet of Things, 5G, autonomous vehicles and artificial intelligence, among other technological advancements, are driving unprecedented growth of the digital economy. As the infrastructure for this growing digital economy, we believe the data center industry is poised for sustainable growth. The demand for data center infrastructure is being driven by this digital transformation which is contributing to the explosive growth of data, rapid growth of cloud adoption and greater demand for IT outsourcing. The power requirements and financial costs to support this growth in data, traffic and storage are substantial and growing accordingly. We believe that data centers will continue to play a critical role in the digital economy and enabling business transformation strategies. We believe cloud solutions and, in particular, hybrid cloud solutions will remain significant drivers of demand for data infrastructure. The hybrid cloud, which combines public and private cloud solutions, has gained traction because it enables corporate enterprises to achieve efficiencies and contain costs as well as scale and secure their most sensitive information. In addition, the leading cloud service providers are generally mature, well-capitalized technology companies, and cloud platforms are among their fastest growing business segments. Data center providers that can solve global coverage, capacity and ecosystem connectivity needs, and coordinate and aggregate diverse customer and application demand, are poised to benefit from these cloud-specific industry drivers. These diverse and secular industry dynamics are driving greater demand for data center capacity not only from global cloud service providers, but also from businesses across all industries, including disaster recovery firms, IT service firms and financial services. As companies focus on their core competencies and rely on outsourcing to meet their needs, they are prioritizing colocation for their data center solutions for various reasons, including to reduce latency in data transfer and increase global presence and connectivity. New technologies need a fast, reliable and flexible foundation to operate, and the importance of offering a full spectrum of power, space and connectivity solutions continues to grow. 2 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our Business We solve global coverage, capacity, and ecosystem connectivity needs for companies of all sizes through PlatformDIGITAL TM , our global platform for centers of data exchange, interconnection, and colocation solutions. Our global, fit for purpose data center platform enables companies to scale their digital business with a controlled, connected, and optimized network architecture designed to address their specific requirements. We offer a Pervasive Data Center (PDx TM ) architecture that integrates the physical and virtual worlds within proximity to centers of data exchange, interconnected to digital ecosystems and tailored to business needs. Our solutions support increasing requirements for a decentralized infrastructure to accommodate the growing need for distributed workflows that vary by type of customer, application, data and location. This platform allows our customers and partners to connect with each other and their own customers and partners. Fundamentally, our platform brings together foundational real estate and innovative technology expertise to deliver a comprehensive, specialized product suite to meet customers global infrastructure needs. Our solutions help enable the global cloud revolution and provide the infrastructure for today s growing digital economy. We represent an important part of the digital economy that we believe will benefit from powerful, long-term growth drivers. We believe that the growth trends in the data center market, the cloud, Internet traffic and Internet-based services, combined with cost advantages in outsourcing data center requirements, provide attractive growth opportunities for us as a data center solutions provider. Leveraging deep expertise in technology and real estate, we have an expansive global footprint, impressive scale and a full-spectrum fit for purpose product offering in key metropolitan areas around the world. These advantages simplify the contracting process for multinational enterprises, eliminating their need to contract with multiple local data center solutions providers. In addition, in areas where high data center construction and operating costs and long time-to-market prohibit many of our customers from building their own data centers, our global footprint and scale allow us to quickly and efficiently meet our customers needs. Digital Realty Pillars Resilient Foundations Our record of resiliency, 12 consecutive years of five-nines (99.999%) uptime for facilities owned and operated by us, and our award-winning sustainability program ensure our customers high-performance networks are effective and environmentally conscious. We design, own and manage data centers and are trusted with the critical IT infrastructures of companies globally, from small businesses to large multinational enterprises. We provide the critical digital foundations for our customers to store, manage, and connect their data when, where and how they need it. Global, Local and Interconnected Our data centers are hyper-connected hubs, strategically located in 36 key metro areas across the world. Our global strength is matched by the expertise of our local teams on the ground. Our data centers provide high-performance access to one of the largest ecosystems of interconnected networks, critical data center and cloud services, customers and partners. Our global footprint and network enable our customers to connect with other parties in the way they need. Trusted Partner We are a trusted partner for our customers, which include many of the most digitally ambitious companies in the world, helping safeguard their digital capital and driving their growth. Whether designing and delivering dedicated data center facilities or solving cloud connectivity issues, our dedicated team of technical experts strives to ensure customer success through consistency in operations, customer care and ease of doing business. 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our Data Center Portfolio Our portfolio of high-quality data centers provides secure, highly connected and continuously available environments for the exchange, processing and storage of critical electronic information. Data centers are used for digital communication, disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and housing mission-critical corporate IT applications. Our internet gateway data centers are highly interconnected, network-dense facilities that serve as hubs for internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas. We believe internet gateways are extremely valuable and a high-quality, highly interconnected global portfolio such as ours could not be easily replicated today on a cost-competitive basis. Our global platform provides access to a network of 225 state-of-the-art, interconnected data centers, concentrated in 36 major metropolitan areas across 13 countries on five continents. We are diversified across major metropolitan areas characterized by a high concentration of connected end-users and technology companies. Northern Virginia represented 24% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019, followed by Chicago with 13% of total revenue. Through strategic investments, we have grown our presence in key metropolitan areas throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia. Recent acquisitions have expanded our footprint into Latin America, enhanced our data center offerings in strategic and complementary U.S. metropolitan areas, established our colocation and interconnection platform in the U.S. and expanded our colocation and interconnection platform in Europe, each transaction enhancing our presence in top-tier locations throughout the U.S., Europe and Latin America. The locations of and improvements to our data centers, the network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our facilities, and our comprehensive product offerings are critical to our customers businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, longer average lease terms and customer relationships, as well as lower turnover. In addition, many of our data centers contain significant improvements that have been installed at our customers expense. The tenant improvements in our data centers are generally readily adaptable for use by similar customers. Our data centers are physically secure, network-rich and equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements of smaller footprints up to the most demanding IT applications. Many of our data centers are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces our customers costs and operational risks and enhances the attractiveness of our properties. In addition, our strategically 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements located global data center campuses offer our customers the ability to expand their global footprint as their businesses grow, while our connectivity offerings on our campuses enhance the capabilities and attractiveness of these facilities. Further, the network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our data centers has led to the organic formation of densely interconnected ecosystems that are difficult for others to replicate and deliver added value to our customers. Our portfolio contains a total of approximately 36.6 million square feet, including approximately 4.5 million square feet of space under active development and approximately 1.8 million square feet of space held for future development. The 41 data centers held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures have an aggregate of approximately 4.7 million rentable square feet. The 24 parcels of developable land we own comprise approximately 944 acres. A significant component of our current and future growth is expected to be generated through the development of our existing space held for development and acquisition of new properties. As of December 31, 2019, our portfolio, including the 41 data centers held as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and excluding space under active development and space held for future development, was approximately 86.8% leased. Our Diversified Product Offerings We provide a flexible, global data center platform that allows our customers to tailor infrastructure deployments and controls matched to their business needs. Our data centers and comprehensive suite of product offerings are scalable to meet our customers needs, from a single rack or cabinet up to multi-megawatt deployments, along with connectivity, interconnection and solutions to support their hybrid cloud architecture requirements. Over the past few years, we have expanded our product mix to appeal to a broader spectrum of data center customers, especially those seeking to support a greater portion of their data center requirements through a single provider. We offer a comprehensive global product offering that covers the spectrum from single rack colocation to multiple megawatt deployments and connectivity around the world to suit our customers current needs and to enable their future growth. Our Critical Facilities Management services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities. 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PlatformDIGITAL Solution Model . The PlatformDIGITAL solution model is based on our Pervasive Datacenter architecture strategy, which brings users, networks, clouds, controls and systems to the data, removing barriers, creating centers of data exchange to accommodate distributed workflows and scaling digital business. Network Hub Consolidates and localizes traffic into ingress/egress points to optimize network performance and cost Control Hub Hosts adjacent security and IT controls to improve security posture and IT operations Data Hub Localizes data aggregation, staging, analytics, streaming and data management to optimize data SX Fabric Adds SDN overlay to service chain multi-cloud and B2B application ecosystems Connects hubs across metros and regions to enable secure and performant distributed workflows Capacity Product Description Colocation Small (one cabinet) to medium (75 cabinets) deployments Provides agility to quickly deploy in days Contract length generally 2-3 years Consistent designs, operational environment, power expenses Scale Hyperscale Powered Base Building Turn-Key Flex Scale from medium (300+ kW) to very large deployments Solution can be executed in weeks Contract length generally 5-10+ years Customized data center environment for specific deployment needs The PlatformDIGITAL solution model is available in our colocation and Turn-Key Flex data centers, which are move-in ready, physically secure facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support customers requiring a single rack or cabinet up to multi-megawatt deployments. We believe our colocation and Turn-Key Flex facilities are effective solutions for customers who may lack the bandwidth, capital budget, expertise or desire to provide their own extensive data center infrastructure, management and security. For customers who possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building solution provides the physical location, requisite power and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, our data center campuses offer our customers the opportunity to expand in or near their existing deployments within our data center campuses. Connectivity Product Description Cross Connect A Layer 1 connection between two customer defined end points in a Digital Realty facility Campus Connect Local, dedicated connectivity solution within Digital Realty campus environments located in hyperconnected metros around the world Metro Connect Dedicated connection between multiple Digital Realty facilities located in the same metro area Internet Exchange Peering with major carrier, content, and wireless networks on a single, high-availability service platform Service Exchange Access to multiple connections through multiple service providers all from one portal IP Bandwidth Blended bandwidth upstream connectivity with routing to provide a fast, resilient, dedicated Internet connection Pathway Point-of-entry access for carriers, terminating into the POP or Meet Me Room within a given facility Through our recent investments and strategic partnerships, we have significantly expanded our capabilities as a leading provider of interconnection and cloud-enablement services globally. We believe interconnection is an attractive line of business that would be difficult to build organically and enhances the overall value proposition of our data center product offerings. Furthermore, through product offerings such as our Service Exchange and partnerships with cloud service providers, we are able to support our customers hybrid cloud architecture requirements. Our Global Customers Our portfolio has attracted a high-quality, diversified mix of customers. We have more than 2,000 customers, and no single customer represented more than approximately 8.0% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio as of December 31, 2019. We provide each customer access to a choice of highly customized solutions based on their scale, colocation, and interconnection needs. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Global Customer Base across a Wide Variety of Industry Sectors . We use our in-depth knowledge of requirements for and trends impacting cloud and information technology service providers, content providers, network and communications providers, and other data center users, including enterprise customers, to market our data centers to meet these customers specific technology needs. Our customers are increasingly launching multi-regional deployments and growing with us internationally. Our largest customer, accounted for approximately 8.0% of the aggregate annualized rent as of December 31, 2019 and no other single customer accounted for more than approximately 6.7% of the aggregate annualized rent of our portfolio. At December 31, 2019, our customers represented a variety of industry verticals, ranging from cloud and information technology services, communications and social networking to financial services, manufacturing, energy, gaming, life sciences and consumer products. Cloud and IT Services Digital Content Providers and Financial Companies Network and Mobile Services Fortune 50 Software Company Facebook, Inc. Comcast Corporation IBM Fortune 25 Investment Grade-Rated Company CenturyLink Oracle America, Inc. LinkedIn China Telecommunications Corporation Cyxtera Technologies JPMorgan Chase Co. Verizon Equinix Morgan Stanley Proven Experience Attracting and Retaining Customers . Our specialized data center salesforce, which is aligned to meet our customers needs for global, enterprise and network solutions, provides a robust pipeline of new customers, while existing customers continue to grow and expand their utilization of our technology-enabled services to support a greater portion of their IT needs. Below is a summary of our leasing activity for the year ended December 31, 2019 (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2019 Commenced Signed Annualized Annualized Square Feet GAAP Rent Square Feet GAAP Rent New 1.8 $ 216 1.7 (1) $ 218 (1) Renewals 5.0 $ 519 4.9 $ 509 (1) Includes signed new leases with existing customers totaling approximately 1.5 million square feet, which represent approximately $194 million in annualized GAAP rent. Our Design and Construction Program Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design and construction result in significant cost savings and added value for our customers. We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment. Utilizing our innovative modular data center design, we deliver what we believe to be a technically superior data center environment at significant cost savings. In addition, by utilizing our POD Architecture to develop new Turn-Key Flex facilities in our existing Powered Base Building facilities, on average we can deliver a fully commissioned facility in under 30 weeks. Finally, our access to capital and investment-grade ratings allow us to provide data center solutions for customers who do not want to invest their own capital. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our Investment Approach We have developed detailed, standardized procedures for evaluating acquisitions and investments, including income-producing properties as well as vacant buildings and land suitable for development, to ensure that they meet our strategic, financial, technical and other criteria. These procedures, together with our in-depth knowledge of the technology, data center and real estate industries, allow us to identify strategically located properties and evaluate investment opportunities efficiently and, as appropriate, commit and close quickly. Our investment-grade ratings, along with our broad network of contacts within the data center industry, enable us to effectively capitalize on acquisition and investment opportunities. Our Management Team and Organization Our senior management team has many years of experience in the technology and/or real estate industries, including experience as investors in and advisors to technology companies. We believe that our senior management team s extensive knowledge of both the technology and the real estate industries provides us with a key competitive advantage. Further, a significant portion of compensation for our senior management team and directors is in the form of common equity interests in our Company. We also maintain minimum stock ownership requirements for our senior management team and directors, further aligning their interests with those of external stockholders, as well as an employee stock purchase plan, which encourages our employees to increase their ownership in the Company. Our Business and Growth Strategies Our primary business objectives are to maximize: (i) sustainable long-term growth in earnings and funds from operations per share and unit, (ii) cash flow and returns to our stockholders and our Operating Partnership s unitholders through the payment of dividends and distributions and (iii) return on invested capital. We expect to accomplish these objectives by achieving superior risk-adjusted returns, prudently allocating capital, diversifying our product offerings, accelerating our global reach and scale, and driving revenue growth and operating efficiencies. Superior Risk-Adjusted Returns . We believe that achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns on our business, including on our development pipeline and leasing transactions, will deliver superior stockholder returns. At December 31, 2019, we had approximately 4.5 million square feet of space under active development. We may continue to build out our development pipeline when justified by anticipated returns. We have established robust internal guidelines for reviewing and approving leasing transactions, which we believe will drive risk-adjusted returns. We also believe that providing an even stronger value proposition to our customers, including through new and more comprehensive product offerings, as well as continuing to improve operational efficiencies, will further drive improved returns for our business. Prudently Allocate Capital . We believe that the accretive deployment of capital at sufficiently positive spreads above our cost of capital enables us to increase cash flow and create long-term stockholder value. Strategic and Complementary Investments . We have developed significant expertise at underwriting, financing and executing data center investment opportunities. We employ a collaborative app