ITEM 1. Business 1 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 17 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 47 ITEM 2. Properties 47 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 51 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 PART II. 52 ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 55 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 56 ITEM 7A . Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 75 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 79 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 149 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 149 ITEM 9B. Other Information 150 PART III. 151 ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 151 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 151 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 151 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 151 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 151 PART IV. 152 ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 152 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 161 SIGNATURES 162 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company Digital Realty Trust, Inc. (the Parent ), through its controlling interest in Digital Realty Trust, L.P. (the Operating Partnership or the OP ) and the subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership, (collectively, we , our , us or the Company ) is a leading global provider of data center, colocation and interconnection solutions for customers across a variety of industry verticals. The Parent operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The OP is the entity through which the Parent conducts its business of owning, acquiring, developing and operating data centers. The Parent was incorporated in the state of Maryland on March 9, 2004. The OP was organized as a limited partnership in the state of Maryland on July 21, 2004. As of December 31, 2021, our portfolio consisted of 287 data centers (including 50 data centers held as investments in unconsolidated entities), of which 127 are located in the United States, 107 are located in Europe, 27 are located in Latin America, 13 are located in Asia, six are located in Australia, four are located in Africa and three are located in Canada. Our principal executive offices are located at 5707 Southwest Parkway, Building 1, Suite 275, Austin, Texas 78735. Our telephone number is (737) 281-0101. Our website is www.digitalrealty.com. The information found on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor does it form a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Acquisitions On October 29, 2019, Digital Realty Trust, Inc., Digital Intrepid Holding B.V., an indirect subsidiary of Digital Realty Trust, Inc. (the Buyer ), and Interxion Holding N.V., which we refer to as Interxion, entered into a purchase agreement, or the Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement, the Buyer commenced an exchange offer to purchase all of the outstanding ordinary shares of Interxion in exchange for shares of common stock of Digital Realty Trust, Inc. We refer to the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement as the Interxion Combination. We obtained control of Interxion on March 9, 2020 and completed the Interxion Combination on March 12, 2020 for total equity consideration of approximately $7.0 billion, including cash assumed. The Interxion Combination expanded the combined company s presence across Europe and Africa. On November 1, 2019, we closed the joint venture with Mapletree Investments and Mapletree Industrial Trust, which we refer to collectively as Mapletree, on three existing Turn-Key Flex data centers located in Ashburn, Virginia. The Company retained a 20% ownership interest in the joint venture, and Mapletree acquired the remaining 80% stake for approximately $0.8 billion. We will continue to operate and manage these facilities. The second tranche of the Mapletree transaction, the sale of 10 fully-leased Powered Base Building properties for $557 million, closed in January 2020. On December 20, 2018, the Operating Partnership and Stellar Participa es S.A. (formerly Stellar Partici p a es L t d a.), a Brazilian subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, completed the acquisition of Ascenty, a leading data center provider in Brazil, for cash and equity consideration of approximately $2.0 billion, including cash assumed. We refer to this transaction as the Ascenty Acquisition. In March 2019, we formed a joint venture with Brookfield Infrastructure, an affiliate of Brookfield Asset Management, one of the largest owners and operators of infrastructure assets globally. Brookfield invested approximately $702 million in exchange for approximately 49% of the total equity interests in the joint venture which owns and operates Ascenty. A subsidiary of the Operating Partnership retained the remaining equity interest in the Ascenty joint venture. As of March 27, 2019, we deconsolidated Ascenty and recorded our retained interest as an investment in unconsolidated entities due to shared control with Brookfield. 1 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Industry Background The digital economy continues to grow and change how enterprises across all industries create and deliver value. Companies increasingly need to operate ubiquitously, on-demand and with real-time intelligence serving customers, partners and employees across multiple channels, business functions and points of business presence. Computational processing power requirements continue to advance, data traffic is growing, and the volume of data that enterprises generate, transmit, process, analyze, monitor and manage is expanding dramatically. The Internet of Things, 5G, autonomous vehicles and artificial intelligence, among other technological advancements, are driving this digital transformation. We believe that enterprise data growth is accelerating due to the growing digital economy and emerging technological advances. As enterprises analyze and process this accelerating data mass, they create more data. As this mass of data continues to grow, it needs to be analyzed and processed: a task which we believe is becoming increasingly challenging to replicate and relocate. This phenomenon is called Data Gravity. We believe that enterprise decisionmakers will need to increasingly consider the impact of how Data Gravity impacts their enterprise IT architectures and, accordingly, we have developed the Data Gravity Index : a global forecast that measures the intensity and gravitational force of enterprise data growth. As the largest global provider of cloud- and carrier-neutral data center, colocation and interconnection solutions, we believe the data center industry is poised for sustainable growth. The demand for data center infrastructure is being driven by this digital transformation which is contributing to the explosive growth of data, rapid growth of cloud adoption and greater demand for IT outsourcing. The power requirements and financial costs to support this growth in data, traffic and storage are substantial and growing accordingly. We believe data centers will continue to play a critical role in the digital economy and enabling business transformation strategies. We believe cloud solutions and hybrid cloud solutions will remain significant drivers of demand for data center infrastructure. The hybrid cloud, which combines public and private cloud solutions, has gained traction because it enables corporate enterprises to achieve efficiencies and contain costs, as well as scale and secure their most sensitive information. In addition, the leading cloud service providers are generally mature, well-capitalized technology companies, and cloud platforms are among the fastest-growing business segments. Data center providers that can solve global coverage, capacity and connectivity needs, and coordinate and aggregate diverse customer and application demand, are poised to benefit from these cloud-specific industry drivers. These diverse and secular industry dynamics are driving greater demand for data center capacity not only from global cloud service providers, but also from businesses across other industries, including IT service firms, social media, content providers and the financial services sector. As companies focus on their core competencies and rely on outsourcing to meet their IT infrastructure needs, they are prioritizing colocation for their data center solutions for various reasons, including to reduce latency in data transfer and increase global presence and connectivity. New technologies need a fast, reliable and flexible foundation to operate, and the importance of offering a full spectrum of power, space and connectivity solutions continues to grow. Our Business We provide a global data center platform that supports our customers digital infrastructure and enables our customers to interconnect with their customers and partners. We solve global coverage, capacity and connectivity needs for companies of all sizes, including the world s leading enterprises and services providers, through PlatformDIGITAL , a global data center platform for scaling digital business which enables customers to deploy their critical infrastructure with a global data center provider. PlatformDIGITAL combines our global presence with our Pervasive Data Center Architecture (PDx ) solution methodology for scaling digital business and efficiently managing data gravity challenges. Our global data center footprint gives customers access to the connected data communities that matter to them with 287 facilities in nearly 50 metros across 25 countries on six continents. 2 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Fundamentally, we bring together foundational real estate and innovative technology expertise around the world to deliver a comprehensive, dedicated product suite to meet customers data and connectivity needs. We represent an important part of the digital economy that we believe will benefit from powerful, long-term growth drivers. We believe that the growth trends in the data center market, technology, the cloud, internet traffic and internet-based services, combined with cost advantages in outsourcing data center requirements, provide attractive growth opportunities for us as a data center solutions provider. Leveraging deep expertise in technology and real estate, we have an expansive global footprint, impressive scale and a full-spectrum fit-for-purpose product offering in key metropolitan areas around the world. These advantages simplify the contracting process for multinational enterprises, eliminating their need to negotiate with multiple local data center solutions providers. In addition, in areas where high data center construction and operating costs and long time-to-market prohibit many of our customers from building their own data centers, our global footprint and scale allow us to meet our customers needs quickly and efficiently. Our Data Center Portfolio Our portfolio of high-quality data centers provides secure, highly connected and continuously available environments for the exchange, processing and storage of critical data. Data centers are used for digital communication, disaster recovery purposes, transaction processing and housing mission-critical corporate IT applications. Our internet gateway data centers are highly connected, network-dense facilities that serve as hubs for internet and data communications within and between major metropolitan areas. We believe internet gateways are extremely valuable, and a high-quality, highly interconnected global portfolio such as ours could not be easily replicated today on a cost-competitive basis. We are diversified across major metropolitan areas characterized by a high concentration of connected end-users and technology companies. At December 31, 2021, we owned or had investments in properties, on a wholly-owned basis or through unconsolidated entities, in the following geographies: Our portfolio contains a total of approximately 45.5 million square feet, including approximately 7.2 million square feet of space under active development and approximately 2.7 million square feet of space held for future development. The 50 data centers held as investments in unconsolidated entities have an aggregate of approximately 35.6 million rentable square feet. The 27 parcels of developable land we own comprise approximately 849 acres. A significant component of our current and future growth is expected to be generated through the development of our existing space held for development and acquisition of new properties. As of December 31, 2021, our portfolio, including the 50 data centers held as investments in unconsolidated entities and excluding space under active development and space held for future development, was approximately 83.6% leased. From time to time we may look to sell individual assets or portfolios of assets that we do not consider to be core to our business and growth strategy. 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Through strategic investments, we have expanded our footprint into Latin America, enhanced our data center offerings in strategic and complementary U.S. metropolitan areas, established our colocation and interconnection platform in the U.S. and expanded our colocation and interconnection platform in Europe and Africa, with each transaction enhancing our presence in top-tier locations throughout North America, Europe, Latin America and Africa. The locations of and improvements to our data centers, the network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our facilities, and our comprehensive product offerings are critical to our customers businesses, which we believe results in high occupancy levels, longer average lease terms and customer relationships, as well as lower turnover. In addition, many of our data centers contain significant improvements that have been installed at our customers expense. The tenant improvements in our data centers are generally readily adaptable for use by similar customers. Our data centers are physically secure, network-rich and equipped to meet the power and cooling requirements of smaller footprints up to the most demanding IT applications. Many of our data centers are located on major aggregation points formed by the physical presence of multiple major telecommunications service providers, which reduces our customers costs and operational risks and enhances the attractiveness of our properties. In addition, our strategically located global data center campuses offer our customers the ability to expand their global footprint as their businesses grow, while our connectivity offerings on our campuses enhance the capabilities and attractiveness of these facilities. Further, the network density, interconnection infrastructure and connectivity-centric customers in certain of our data centers has led to the organic formation of densely connected data communities that are difficult for competitors to replicate and deliver added value to our customers. Our Diversified Product Offerings We provide a flexible, global data center platform that allows our customers to tailor infrastructure deployments and controls matched to their business needs. Our data centers and comprehensive suite of product offerings are scalable to meet our customers needs, from a single rack or cabinet up to multi-megawatt deployments, along with connectivity, connected data communities and solutions to support their hybrid cloud architecture requirements. Over the past few years, we have expanded our product mix to appeal to a broader spectrum of data center customers, especially those seeking to support a greater portion of their data center requirements through a single provider. Our Critical Facilities Management services and team of technical engineers and data center operations experts provide 24/7 support for these mission-critical facilities. PlatformDIGITAL Solution Model . The PlatformDIGITAL solution model is based on our Pervasive Data Center Architecture (PDx ) strategy, which brings users, networks, clouds, controls and systems to the data, removing barriers, creating centers of data exchange to accommodate distributed workflows and scaling digital business. Network Hub Consolidates and localizes traffic into ingress/egress points to optimize network performance and cost Control Hub Hosts adjacent security and IT controls to improve security posture and Hybrid-IT operations Data Hub Localizes data aggregation, staging, analytics, streaming and data management to optimize data exchange SX Fabric Adds SDN overlay to service chain multi-cloud and B2B application ecosystems Connects hubs across metros and regions to enable secure and performant distributed workflows 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Capacity Product Description Colocation (0 to 1 MW) Small (one cabinet) to medium (75 cabinets) deployments Provides agility to quickly deploy in days Contract length generally 2-5 years Consistent designs, operational environment, power expenses Scale Hyperscale Powered Base Building Turn-Key Flex ( 1 MW) Scale from medium to very large deployments Solution can be executed in weeks Contract length generally 5-10+ years Customized data center environment for specific deployment needs 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The PlatformDIGITAL solution model is available in our colocation and Turn-Key Flex data centers, which are move-in ready, physically secure facilities with the power and cooling capabilities to support customers requiring a single rack or cabinet up to multi-megawatt deployments. We believe our colocation and Turn-Key Flex facilities are effective solutions for customers who may lack the bandwidth, capital budget, expertise, or desire to provide their own extensive data center infrastructure, management, and security. We believe our offerings are also well-suited for those customers who seek to efficiently exchange data with others in our connected data communities, lowering their costs and creating value for their business. For customers who possess the ability to build and operate their own facility, our Powered Base Building solution provides the physical location, requisite power, and network access necessary to support a state-of-the-art data center. Additionally, our data center campuses offer our customers the opportunity to expand in or near their existing deployments within our data center campuses. Connectivity Product Description Cross Connect A physical connection between two customer defined end points in a Digital Realty facility enabling customers to directly exchange data traffic Campus Connect Local, dedicated connectivity solution within Digital Realty campus environments located in hyperconnected metros around the world enabling multiple facilities on a single campus to exchange data traffic and therefore operate as a virtual single data center Metro Connect Dedicated connection between multiple Digital Realty facilities located in the same metro area enabling fast connectivity for data traffic between them Interxion Cloud Connect Provides secure and high-performance VLAN interconnections to multiple cloud service providers from one physical connection Internet Exchange A common peering platform allowing participants to exchange network traffic with multiple ISPs, CDNs and other parties over a single port interface Service Exchange SDN Global interconnection solution enabling customers to establish direct, private connections to multiple Cloud Service Providers, Network Providers and other participants of the platform from a single interface IP Bandwidth Dedicated Internet Access using blend of ISPs. Provides customer with highly resilient customer dedicated connections including Fixed and Burstable Service options Pathway Point-of-entry access for carriers, terminating into the POP or Meet Me Room within a given facility Through investments and strategic partnerships, we have significantly expanded our capabilities as a leading provider of interconnection and cloud-enablement services globally. We believe interconnection is an attractive line of business that would be difficult to build organically and enhances the overall value proposition of our data center product offerings. Furthermore, through product offerings such as our Service Exchange and Interxion Cloud Connect and partnerships with cloud service providers, we can support our customers hybrid cloud architecture requirements. Our Global Customers Our portfolio has attracted a high-quality, diversified mix of customers. We have more than 4,000 customers, and no single customer represented more than approximately 10.0% of the aggregate annualized recurring revenue of our 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements portfolio as of December 31, 2021. We provide each customer access to a choice of highly customized solutions based on their scale, colocation, and interconnection needs. Global Customer Base across a Wide Variety of Industry Sectors . We use our in-depth knowledge of requirements for and trends impacting cloud and information technology service providers, content providers, network and communications providers, and other data center users, including enterprise customers, to market our data centers to meet these customers specific technology needs. Our customers are increasingly launching multi-regional deployments and growing with us globally. Our largest customer, accounted for approximately 10.0% of our aggregate annualized recurring revenue as of December 31, 2021. No other single customer accounted for more than approximately 4.1% of the aggregate annualized recurring revenue of our portfolio. Our customers represent a variety of industry verticals, ranging from cloud and information technology services, communications and social networking to financial services, manufacturing, energy, gaming, life sciences and consumer products. Cloud and IT Services Digital Content Providers and Financial Companies Network and Mobile Services Equinix Facebook, Inc. AT T Fortune 50 Software Company Fortune 25 Investment Grade-Rated Company Comcast Corporation IBM JPMorgan Chase Co. Lumen Technologies, Inc. Oracle America, Inc. LinkedIn Verizon Proven Experience Attracting and Retaining Customers . Our specialized data center salesforce, which is aligned to meet our customers needs for global, enterprise and network solutions, provides a robust pipeline of new customers, while existing customers continue to grow and expand their utilization of our technology-enabled services to support a greater portion of their IT needs. Our Design and Construction Program Our extensive development activity, operating scale and process-based approach to data center design and construction result in significant cost savings and added value for our customers. We have leveraged our purchasing power by securing global purchasing agreements and developing relationships with major equipment manufacturers, reducing costs and shortening delivery timeframes on key components, including major mechanical and electrical equipment. See We and our customers may experience supply chain or procurement disruptions, or increased supply chain costs, which may lead to delays. in