Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Reserved 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9B. Other Information 69 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 69 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 72 Signatures 73 3 Table of Contents Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements as that term is used in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they address future events, developments and results and do not relate strictly to historical facts. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, view, target or estimate, may, will, should, predict, possible, potential, continue, strategy, and similar expressions. For example, our forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: The potential effect of general business or economic conditions on our business, including the direct and indirect effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, labor shortages, consumer spending levels, and unemployment in our markets; The uncertainty of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and public health measures on our business and results of operations, including uncertainties surrounding shipping delays and other disruptions in our supply chain or sources of supply, the physical and financial health of our customers, and the effectiveness and duration of government assistance programs to individuals, households and businesses to support consumer spending; Our expectations regarding higher oceanic shipping and domestic freight and fuel costs, and our plans to manage these cost increases; Our expectations regarding increased expenses for higher wages and bonuses paid to associates, including increases in the minimum wage by States and localities, potential federal legislation increasing the minimum wage, and a potential increase in the minimum salary for exempt store managers; Our expectations regarding continued disruptions and delays in shipping from China and other parts of Asia, and the impact of such disruptions and delays on our product availability, product mix, sales, and merchandise margin. Our growth plans, including our plans to add, renovate, re-banner, expand, remodel, relocate or close stores and any related costs or charges, our leasing strategy for future expansion, and our ability to renew leases at existing store locations; Our anticipated sales, comparable store net sales, net sales growth, gross profit margin, costs of goods sold (including product mix), shrink rates, earnings and earnings growth, inventory levels, selling, general and administrative and other fixed costs, and our ability to leverage those costs; The expected and possible outcome, costs, and impact of pending or potential litigation, arbitrations, other legal proceedings or governmental investigations, including (a) the proceeding by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) arising out of or relating to: (i) products manufactured by certain Chinese factories, (ii) the inspection by the FDA and the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) and pending FDA compliance process with respect to our West Memphis, Arkansas Family Dollar distribution center ( Arkansas FDA Matter ), (iii) a voluntary retail level product recall we initiated in February 2022 in connection with the Arkansas FDA Matter, (b) several proposed class action complaints filed against Family Dollar pertaining to circumstances underlying the Arkansas FDA Matter, (c) the federal grand jury subpoena relating to issues associated with our West Memphis, Arkansas Family Dollar distribution center, and/or (d) the facts relating to the matters described in (a), (b) or (c) above; Our plans to renovate existing Family Dollar stores and build new stores in the H2 store format, including an increase in the number of stores with freezers and coolers and the roll-out of adult beverages, and the performance of that format on our results of operations; Our plans and expectations relating to the introduction of additional price points above $1 in our Dollar Tree stores; Our plans relating to new store openings and new store concepts such as Dollar Tree Plus and our Combination Store format; The impact of trade relations and the ongoing trade dispute between the United States and China, including the actual and potential effect of Section 301 tariffs on Chinese goods imposed by the United States Trade Representative, uncertainties surrounding the policies of the current presidential administration, and other potential impediments to imports; Our expectations regarding an increase in imports and the resulting payment of a higher amount of Section 301 tariffs in 2022; The reliability of, and cost associated with, our sources of supply, particularly imported goods such as those sourced from China and domestic goods which are in higher demand as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; 4 Table of Contents The effect of changes in labor laws, and the effect of the Fair Labor Standards Act as it relates to the qualification of our managers for exempt status, minimum wage and health care law; Our seasonal sales patterns and customer demand including those relating to the important holiday selling seasons and party merchandise; The average size and productivity of our stores, including those to be added in 2022 and beyond; Our cash needs, including our ability to fund our future capital expenditures, working capital requirements and repurchases of common stock under our repurchase program, and our ability to service our debt obligations, including our expected annual interest expense; Our expectations regarding the construction of new distribution centers and the capabilities of our distribution center network; Our expectations regarding higher commodity and other costs associated with the build-out of new stores and the renovation of existing stores, and construction, permitting and inspection delays related to new store openings; Our expectations regarding competition and our potential for long-term growth; Our assessment of the impact on us of certain actions by activist shareholders and our potential responses to these actions; Our assessment of the materiality and impact on our business of recent accounting pronouncements adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board; Management s estimates and expectations as they relate to income tax liabilities, deferred income taxes, uncertain tax positions, and recognition of stock-based compensation; and Management s estimates associated with our critical accounting estimates, including inventory valuation, self-insurance liabilities and valuations for our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analyses. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future results, events or circumstances. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and business information. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under