Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 38 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69 Item 9B. Other Information 71 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 71 Item 11. Executive Compensation 71 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 71 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 72 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 72 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 74 Signatures 75 3 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements as that term is used in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they address future events, developments and results and do not relate strictly to historical facts. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, view, target or estimate, may, will, should, predict, possible, potential, continue, strategy, and similar expressions. For example, our forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: the potential effect of general business or economic conditions (including inflation) on our costs and profitability, including the potential effect of future changes in prevailing wage rates and overtime regulations and our plans to address these changes, shipping rates, freight and other distribution costs, fuel costs and wage and benefit costs, consumer spending levels, and population, employment and job growth and/or losses in our markets; the uncertainty of the impact of the coronavirus identified as COVID-19, including whether we will be or remain designated an essential business and otherwise be able to keep stores open; the actual and potential effect of Section 301 tariffs on Chinese goods imposed by the United States Trade Representative, some of which were suspended or reduced in January and February 2020, and other potential impediments to imports; our growth plans, including our plans to add, renovate, re-banner, expand, remodel, relocate or close stores and any related costs or charges, our anticipated square footage increase, our leasing strategy for future expansion, and our ability to renew leases at existing store locations; the ability to retain key personnel and attract new personnel at Family Dollar and Dollar Tree and the performance of those personnel; our anticipated sales, comparable store net sales, net sales growth, gross profit margin, costs of goods sold (including product mix), shrink rates, earnings and earnings growth, inventory levels, selling, general and administrative and other fixed costs, and our ability to leverage those costs; the expected and possible outcome, costs, and impact of pending or potential litigation, arbitrations, other legal proceedings or governmental investigations (including the recent allegation by the Food and Drug Administration); the effect of changes in labor laws, and the effect of the Fair Labor Standards Act as it relates to the qualification of our managers for exempt status, minimum wage and health care law; the average size and productivity of our stores, including those to be added in 2020 and beyond; the effect of our initiatives to renovate Family Dollar stores to the H2 store format and the performance of that format, the sales mix of consumable and higher margin merchandise in Dollar Tree and Family Dollar stores, including an increase in the number of stores with freezers and coolers, and the roll-out of adult beverages and Snack Zone, on our results of operations; the net sales per square foot, net sales and operating income of our stores; the benefits, results and effects of the Family Dollar acquisition and integration and the combined Company s plans, objectives, strategies and expectations (financial or otherwise), including synergies, the cost to achieve synergies, and the effect on earnings per share; the effect of changes in tax laws and regulatory interpretations of such laws; our seasonal sales patterns including those relating to the length of the holiday selling seasons; the capabilities of our inventory supply chain technology and other systems; the reliability of, and cost associated with, our sources of supply, particularly imported goods such as those sourced from China; the capacity, performance and cost of our distribution centers and distribution network (including shipping and transportation), including future automation, and our expectations regarding the construction of new distribution centers; our expectations regarding our dividend policy and stock buy-backs; 4 Table of Contents our cash needs, including our ability to fund our future capital expenditures, working capital requirements and repurchases of common stock under our repurchase program, and our ability to service our debt obligations, including our expected annual interest expense; our expectations regarding competition, growth in our retail sector and our potential for long-term growth; our assessment of the materiality and impact on our business of recent accounting pronouncements adopted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board; our assessment of the impact on the Company of certain actions by activist shareholders and the Company s potential responses to these actions; management s estimates and expectations as they relate to income tax liabilities, deferred income taxes and uncertain tax positions; and management s estimates associated with our critical accounting policies, including inventory valuation, self-insurance liabilities and valuations for our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analyses. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future results, events or circumstances. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and business information. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under