Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Reserved 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 70 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 70 Item 9B. Other Information 72 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 72 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 72 Item 11. Executive Compensation 72 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 73 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 73 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 73 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76 Signatures 77 3 Table of Contents Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements as that term is used in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they address future events, developments and results and do not relate strictly to historical facts. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, view, target or estimate, may, will, should, predict, possible, potential, continue, strategy, and similar expressions. For example, our forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: Our plans and expectations regarding our current and future strategic initiatives, and the uncertainty with respect to the amount, timing and impact of those initiatives and investments on our business and results of operations; Our merchandising plans and initiatives and related impacts, including those regarding product and brand assortment, merchandisable space and store layout, cooler and freezer expansions, private brand products and planogram and category resets in the Family Dollar segment, multi-price assortments in the Dollar Tree segment, and our ability to adjust pricing; Our plans to add, renovate and remodel stores, including our plans relating to emerging store formats such as H2.5, rural and XSB formats for Family Dollar stores as discussed under Item 1 . Business , and our expectations regarding store standards and operations, efficiency initiatives, selling square footage and the performance of those formats; Our customer s response to our product offerings, value and shopping experience; Our expectations regarding the implementation and impact of investments in supply chain, distribution facilities, trucking fleet and transportation management systems, and store delivery and equipment, including new distribution centers, the expansion of existing distribution centers, and the capabilities of our distribution center network; Our expectations regarding the implementation and impact of investments in our technology infrastructure, our information security and cybersecurity plans, policies and procedures, and the design and implementation of internal controls around our technology transformation; Our plans to close, relocate or re-banner stores as a result of our store portfolio optimization review; The potential effect of general business or economic conditions on our business, including the direct and indirect effects of inflation, labor shortages, consumer spending levels, and unemployment in our markets; Our expectations regarding cost increases in fiscal 2024, shrink and other factors affecting our profitability; Our expectations regarding the implementation and impact of wage investments, enhanced safety and working conditions, and other workforce investments and goals, and increases in wage expenses, including increases in minimum wages by federal, states and localities, and a potential increase in the minimum salary for exempt store managers; Our anticipated net sales, comparable store net sales, net sales growth, gross profit margin, costs of goods sold (including product mix), shrink rates, earnings and earnings growth, inventory levels, selling, general and administrative and other fixed costs, and our ability to leverage those costs; The expected and possible outcome, costs, and impact of pending or potential litigation, arbitrations, other legal proceedings or governmental investigations, including proceedings arising out of or relating to issues associated with Family Dollar s West Memphis, Arkansas distribution center, our plans regarding these matters, and the availability of indemnification or insurance with respect to such matters; Our cash needs and estimated capital expenditures, our expectations regarding our uses of cash and proceeds of our commercial paper program, and our ability to fund our future capital expenditures, working capital requirements, repayment of indebtedness and repurchases of common stock under our repurchase program, and our expectations regarding potential increases in interest rates and the effect on our revolving credit facility; Our expectations regarding higher commodity and other costs associated with the build-out of new stores and the renovation of existing stores, limitations on the availability of certain fixtures and equipment, and inspection, permitting and contractor delays related to new store openings and renovations of existing stores; Our leasing strategy for future expansion, and our ability to renew leases at existing store locations; Our expectations regarding competition, our market and our potential for long-term growth; 4 Table of Contents Our expectations related to environmental, social and governance matters; Management s estimates and expectations as they relate to income tax liabilities, effective tax rates, deferred income taxes, uncertain tax positions, and recognition of stock-based compensation; and Management s estimates associated with our critical accounting estimates, including inventory valuation, self-insurance liabilities and valuations for our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analyses. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future results, events or circumstances. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial and business information. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed under