Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 41 I tem 1C. C ybersecurity 41 Item 2. Properties 42 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 45 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 45 Part II 46 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 46 Item 6. [Reserved] 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 49 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 68 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 136 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 136 Item 9B. Other Information 138 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 138 Part III 139 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 139 Item 11. Executive Compensation 139 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 139 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 139 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 139 Part IV 140 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 140 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 144 Signatures 145 Table of Contents On February 10, 2023, we completed our corporate reorganization (the Reorganization ) into an umbrella partnership REIT ( UPREIT ). Substantially all of our business is conducted through Healthpeak OP, LLC ( Healthpeak OP ). We are the managing member of Healthpeak OP and do not have material assets or liabilities, other than through our investment in Healthpeak OP. All references in this report to Healthpeak, the Company, we, us, or our mean Healthpeak Properties, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless the context suggests otherwise, references to Healthpeak Properties, Inc. mean the parent company without its subsidiaries. Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical factual statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our and our officers intent, belief or expectation as identified by the use of words such as may, will, project, expect, believe, intend, anticipate, seek, target, forecast, plan, potential, estimate, could, would, should and other comparable and derivative terms or the negatives thereof. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include statements regarding the proposed transactions involving Healthpeak and Physicians Realty Trust (as discussed in further detail in this report), including but not limited to, statements about the anticipated benefits of the proposed transactions involving Healthpeak and Physicians Realty Trust, as well as statements regarding future financial and operating results, plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and views about future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, including our future financial condition and results of operations, to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and uncertainties that may affect our business and future financial performance, including those made below under Summary Risk Factors and in Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analysis made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. While forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and assumptions we believe to be reasonable based upon current information, we can give no assurance that our expectations or forecasts will be attained. Further, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of any such forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report. Except as required by law, we do not undertake, and hereby disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Risk Factors Summary Investors should consider the risks and uncertainties described below that may affect our business and future financial performance. These and other risks and uncertainties are more fully described in Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect us. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As more fully set forth under Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report, principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations include: macroeconomic trends, including inflation, interest rates, construction and labor costs, and unemployment; risks associated with the Mergers (as defined below), including, but not limited to, our ability to consummate the Mergers on the proposed terms or on the anticipated timeline, or at all; potential loss or disruption of current and prospective commercial relationships due to the uncertainties about the Mergers; and the outcome of legal proceedings instituted against us, our Board of Directors, and others related to the Mergers; our ability to integrate the operations of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Mergers or do so within the anticipated time frame; changes within the industries in which we operate; significant regulation, funding requirements, and uncertainty faced by our lab tenants; factors adversely affecting our tenants , operators , or borrowers ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us; the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our major tenants, operators, or borrowers; our concentration of real estate investments in the healthcare property sector, which makes us more vulnerable to a downturn in that specific sector than if we invested across multiple sectors; 1 Table of Contents the illiquidity of real estate investments; our ability to identify and secure new or replacement tenants and operators; our property development, redevelopment, and tenant improvement risks, including project abandonments, project delays, and lower profits than expected; the ability of the hospitals on whose campuses our outpatient medical buildings are located and their affiliated healthcare systems to remain competitive or financially viable; our ability to develop, maintain, or expand hospital and health system client relationships; operational risks associated with third party management contracts, including the additional regulation and liabilities of our properties operated through structures permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which includes most of the provisions previously proposed in the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (commonly referred to as RIDEA ); economic conditions, natural disasters, weather, and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas where we have concentrated investments; uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in significant losses and/or performance declines by us or our tenants and operators; our use of joint ventures may limit our returns on and our flexibility with jointly owned investments; our use of fixed rent escalators, contingent rent provisions, and/or rent escalators based on the Consumer Price Index; competition for suitable healthcare properties to grow our investment portfolio; our ability to foreclose or exercise rights on collateral securing our real estate-related loans; any requirement that we recognize reserves, allowances, credit losses, or impairment charges; investment of substantial resources and time in transactions that are not consummated; our ability to successfully integrate or operate acquisitions; the potential impact on us and our tenants, operators, and borrowers from litigation matters, including rising liability and insurance costs; environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate investments; environmental, social, and governance ( ESG ) and sustainability commitments and requirements, as well as stakeholder expectations; epidemics, pandemics, or other infectious diseases, including the coronavirus disease ( Covid ), and health and safety measures intended to reduce their spread; human capital risks, including the loss or limited availability of our key personnel; our reliance on information technology systems and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security failure of that technology; volatility, disruption, or uncertainty in the financial markets; increased borrowing costs, including due to rising interest rates; cash available for distribution to stockholders and our ability to make dividend distributions at expected levels; the availability of external capital on acceptable terms or at all, including due to rising interest rates, changes in our credit ratings and the value of our common stock, bank failures or other events affecting financial institutions, and other factors; our ability to manage our indebtedness level and covenants in and changes to the terms of such indebtedness; the failure of our tenants, operators, and borrowers to comply with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including resident health and safety requirements, as well as licensure, certification, and inspection requirements; required regulatory approvals to transfer our senior housing properties; compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety, and other regulations; laws or regulations prohibiting eviction of our tenants; the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid; 2 Table of Contents legislation to address federal government operations and administrative decisions affecting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; our participation in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ( CARES Act ) Provider Relief Fund and other Covid-related stimulus and relief programs; our ability to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust ( REIT ); our taxable REIT subsidiaries being subject to corporate level tax; tax imposed on any net income from prohibited transactions ; changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, and potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions; calculating non-REIT tax earnings and profits distributions; ownership limits in our charter that restrict ownership in our stock; provisions of Maryland law and our charter that could prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders; conflicts of interest between the interests of our stockholders and the interests of holders of Healthpeak OP common units; provisions in the operating agreement of Healthpeak OP and other agreements that may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions and other transactions; and our status as a holding company of Healthpeak OP. Important Information Regarding Our Disclosure to Investors We may use our website (www.healthpeak.com) and our LinkedIn account (https://www.linkedin.com/company/healthpeak) to communicate with our investors and disclose company information. The information disclosed through those channels may be considered to be material, so investors should monitor them in addition to our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. The contents of our website or social media channels referenced herein are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General Overview Healthpeak Properties, Inc. is a Standard Poor s ( S P ) 500 company that acquires, develops, owns, leases, and manages healthcare real estate across the United States ( U.S. ). Our company was originally founded in 1985. As noted above, we completed our Reorganization on February 10, 2023, and following that date, we hold substantially all of our assets and conduct our operations through the operating subsidiary, Healthpeak OP, LLC, a consolidated subsidiary of which we are the managing member. We are a Maryland corporation and qualify as a self-administered REIT. Our corporate headquarters are located in Denver, Colorado, and we have additional offices in California, Tennessee, and Massachusetts. Our strategy is to invest in and manage real estate focused on healthcare discovery and delivery. We have a diversified portfolio of high-quality healthcare properties across three core asset classes of lab, outpatient medical, and continuing care retirement community ( CCRC ) real estate. Under the lab and outpatient medical segments, we invest through the acquisition, development, and management of lab buildings, outpatient medical buildings, and hospitals. Under the CCRC segment, our properties are operated through RIDEA structures. We have other non-reportable segments that are comprised primarily of loans receivable and an interest in an unconsolidated joint venture that owns 19 senior housing assets (our SWF SH JV ). These non-reportable segments have been presented on an aggregate basis herein. At December 31, 2023, our portfolio of investments, including properties in our unconsolidated joint ventures, consisted of interests in 477 properties. The following table summarizes information for our reportable and other non-reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2023 (dollars in thousands): Segment Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI (1) Percentage of Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI (1) Number of Properties Lab $ 617,541 51.3 % 146 Outpatient medical 452,725 37.6 % 297 CCRC 112,511 9.3 % 15 Other non-reportable 22,210 1.8 % 19 $ 1,204,987 100.0 % 477 _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio metrics include results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information regarding Adjusted NOI and see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of Adjusted NOI by segment to net income (loss). For a description of our significant activities during 2023, see Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Company Highlights in this report. In 2020, we concluded that the dispositions of our senior housing triple-net and senior housing operating property ( SHOP ) portfolios represented a strategic shift that had a major effect on our operations and financial results. Therefore, the results of senior housing triple-net and SHOP assets are classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented herein. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding discontinued operations. 4 Table of Contents The Merger Agreement On October 29, 2023, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement ) with Physicians Realty Trust, Physicians Realty L.P. (the Physicians Partnership ), and certain of our subsidiaries, pursuant to which, among other things, and through a series of transactions (the Mergers ), (i) each outstanding common share of Physicians Realty Trust (other than Physicians Realty Trust common shares to be canceled in accordance with the Merger Agreement) will be automatically converted into the right to receive 0.674 (the Exchange Ratio ) shares of our common stock, and (ii) each outstanding common unit of the Physicians Partnership will be automatically converted into and become common units in the successor entity to the Physicians Partnership equal to the Exchange Ratio. Following the transactions contemplated in the Merger Agreement, the successor entities to Physicians Realty Trust and the Physicians Partnership will be direct and indirect subsidiaries of Healthpeak OP, respectively. In connection with the Mergers, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on December 15, 2023, as amended on January 9, 2024, and a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus for the Company and Physicians Realty Trust on January 11, 2024 in connection with our respective special meetings of stockholders and shareholders, as applicable, which will be held on February 21, 2024. Consummation of the Mergers are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including the approval of our stockholders and the shareholders of Physicians Realty Trust. We expect the Mergers to close on March 1, 2024. If the Mergers are not consummated by July 31, 2024 (unless extended under certain circumstances), either we or Physicians Realty Trust may terminate the Merger Agreement. Business Strategy Our strategy is to invest in and manage real estate focused on healthcare discovery and delivery. We manage our real estate portfolio for the long-term to maximize risk-adjusted returns and support the growth of our dividends. Our strategy consists of four core elements: (i) Our real estate : Our portfolio consists of high-quality properties in desirable locations. Our portfolio is focused on lab and outpatient medical buildings, favorable sectors that benefit from the universal desire for improved health. We have built scale and fostered deep industry relationships, two unique factors that provide us with a competitive advantage. (ii) Our financials : We maintain a strong investment-grade balance sheet with ample liquidity as well as long-term fixed-rate debt financing with staggered maturities to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility and refinancing risk. (iii) Our partnerships : We work with leading pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device companies, as well as healthcare delivery systems, specialty physician groups, and other healthcare service providers, to meet their real estate needs. We provide high-quality property management services to encourage tenants to renew, expand, and relocate into our properties, which drives increased occupancy, rental rates, and property values. (iv) Our platform : We have a people-first culture that we believe attracts, develops, and retains top talent. We continually strive to create and maintain an industry-leading platform, with systems and tools that allow us to effectively and efficiently manage our assets and investment activity. Internal Growth Strategies We believe our real estate portfolio holds the potential for increased future cash flows as it is well-maintained and in desirable locations. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is to: (i) work with new or existing tenants to address their space and capital needs and (ii) provide high-quality property management services in order to motivate tenants to renew, expand, or relocate into our properties. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to: Build and maintain long-term leasing and management relationships with quality tenants. In choosing locations for our properties, we focus on the physical environment, adjacency to established businesses (e.g., hospital systems or life science submarkets) and educational centers, proximity to sources of business growth, and other local demographic factors. Replace tenants at the best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and achieve attractive rental rates and operating cash flow as a result of the location, design, and maintenance of our properties, together with our reputation for high-quality building services, responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer space alternatives within our portfolio. Extend and modify terms of existing leases prior to expiration. We selectively structure lease extensions, early renewals, or modifications, which reduce the cost associated with lease downtime, while securing the tenancy and relationship of our high-quality tenants on a long-term basis. 5 Table of Contents Investment Strategies The discovery and delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants depend on our real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the: (i) compelling long-term demographics driving the demand for healthcare services; (ii) specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and (iii) ongoing consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector. While we emphasize healthcare real estate ownership, we may also provide real estate secured financing to, or invest in equity or debt securities of, healthcare operators or other entities engaged in healthcare real estate ownership. We may also acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, operating companies, or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment strategies. We may co-invest alongside institutional or development investors through partnerships or limited liability companies. We monitor our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment vehicle, or geographic location, the number of properties that may be leased to a single tenant or operator, or loans that may be made to a single borrower. In allocating capital, we target opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for our portfolio as a whole. We may take additional measures to mitigate risk, including diversifying our investments (by sector, geography, and tenant), structuring transactions as master leases, requiring tenant or operator insurance and indemnifications, and/or obtaining credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit, or security deposits. We believe we are well-positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions, development, and redevelopment. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include: our reputation gained through decades of successful operations and the strength of our existing portfolio of properties; our relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology tenants, healthcare operators and systems, investment banks and other market intermediaries, corporations, private equity firms, not-for-profit organizations, and companies seeking to monetize existing assets or develop new facilities; our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality healthcare real estate; our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions responsively and efficiently, which provides confidence to domestic and foreign institutions and private investors who seek to sell healthcare real estate in our market areas; our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the healthcare and real estate industries; and our control of land sites held for future development. Financing Strategies Our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains); therefore, we do not retain a significant amount of earnings. As a result, we regularly access the public equity and debt markets to raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions and debt investments, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt. We may finance acquisitions and other investments in a variety of ways, including: cash flow from operations; sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties or other investments; borrowings under our credit facility or commercial paper program; issuance of additional debt, including unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt; and/or issuance of common stock or preferred stock or its equivalent. We maintain a disciplined investment-grade balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining access to multiple sources of liquidity. Our debt obligations are primarily long-term fixed rate with staggered maturities. We finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit facility or commercial paper program, arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources, or issue equity securities pursuant to our at-the-market equity offering program. We arrange for longer-term financing by offering debt and equity, placing mortgage debt, and obtaining capital from institutional lenders and joint venture partners. 6 Table of Contents In addition, capital recycling through dispositions and redeployment through acquisitions, developments, and redevelopments is an important facet of our investment and financing strategies. We routinely have multiple transactions involving both individual properties and portfolios under consideration that are in varying stages of evaluation, underwriting, negotiation, and due diligence review, some of which, if consummated or completed, may have a material effect on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. Segments Lab Our lab properties, which contain laboratory and office space, are leased primarily to biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies, and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties have certain characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally accommodate heavier floor loads and contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops, and related amenities. In addition to improvements funded by us as the landlord, many of our lab tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space to accommodate biology, chemistry, or medical device research initiatives. Lab properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for scientific research and drug discovery, including San Francisco (50%) and San Diego (23%), California, and Boston, Massachusetts (25%) (based on total square feet). At December 31, 2023, 90% of our lab properties were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet). The following table provides information about our most significant lab tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2023: Tenants Percentage of Segment Revenues Percentage of Total Revenues Amgen, Inc. 6 % 2 % Outpatient Medical Our outpatient medical segment includes outpatient medical buildings and hospitals. Outpatient medical buildings typically contain physicians offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space, and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics, and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities have certain similarities to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical, and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room and specialized equipment such as x-ray machines and MRIs. Outpatient medical buildings are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for such specialized equipment and may contain vaults or other unique construction. Our outpatient medical buildings are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 87% of our outpatient medical buildings located on or adjacent to hospital campuses and 98% affiliated with hospital systems as of December 31, 2023 (based on total square feet). Occasionally, we invest in outpatient medical buildings located on hospital campuses subject to ground leases. At December 31, 2023, approximately 65% of our outpatient medical buildings were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet) with the remaining leased under gross or modified gross leases. The following table provides information about our most significant outpatient medical tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2023: Tenant Percentage of Segment Revenues Percentage of Total Revenues HCA Healthcare, Inc. (HCA) 23 % 8 % Our outpatient medical segment also includes nine hospitals. Services provided by our tenants and operators in hospitals are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and HMOs), or through Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, and specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. All of our hospitals are triple-net leased. 7 Table of Contents Continuing care retirement community, or CCRC CCRCs are retirement communities that include independent living, assisted living, memory care, and skilled nursing units to provide a continuum of care in an integrated campus. Our CCRCs are owned through RIDEA structures, which is permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, and includes most of the provisions previously proposed in the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007