Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 Part II 37 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. [Reserved] 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 135 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 136 Item 9B. Other Information 138 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 138 Part III 139 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 139 Item 11. Executive Compensation 139 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 139 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 139 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 139 Part IV 140 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 140 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 143 Signatures 144 Table of Contents All references in this report to Healthpeak, the Company, we, us or our mean Healthpeak Properties, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless the context suggests otherwise, references to Healthpeak Properties, Inc. mean the parent company without its subsidiaries. Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical factual statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our and our officers intent, belief or expectation as identified by the use of words such as may, will, project, expect, believe, intend, anticipate, seek, target, forecast, plan, potential, estimate, could, would, should and other comparable and derivative terms or the negatives thereof. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and views about future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, including our future financial condition and results of operations, to differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and uncertainties that may affect our business and future financial performance, including those made below under Summary Risk Factors and in Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analysis made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. While forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and assumptions we believe to be reasonable based upon current information, we can give no assurance that our expectations or forecasts will be attained. Further, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of any such forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report. Except as required by law, we do not undertake, and hereby disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Risk Factors Summary Investors should consider the risks and uncertainties described below that may affect our business and future financial performance. These and other risks and uncertainties are more fully described in Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect us. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As more fully set forth under Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report, principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include: the coronavirus ( Covid ) pandemic and health and safety measures intended to reduce its spread, the availability, effectiveness and public usage and acceptance of vaccines, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume within the markets in which we operate; the ability of our existing and future tenants, operators, and borrowers to conduct their respective businesses in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase their revenues and manage their expenses in order to generate sufficient income to make rent and loan payments to us and our ability to recover investments made, if applicable, in their operations; increased competition, operating costs, and market changes affecting our tenants, operators, and borrowers; the financial condition of our tenants, operators, and borrowers, including potential bankruptcies and downturns in their businesses, and their legal and regulatory proceedings; our concentration of real estate investments in the healthcare property sector, which makes us more vulnerable to a downturn in a specific sector than if we invested in multiple industries and exposes us to the risks inherent in illiquid investments; our ability to identify and secure replacement tenants and operators and the potential renovation costs and regulatory approvals associated therewith; our property development, redevelopment, and tenant improvement activity risks, including project abandonments, project delays, and lower profits than expected; changes within the life science industry; high levels of regulation, funding requirements, expense and uncertainty faced by our life science tenants; the ability of the hospitals on whose campuses our medical office buildings ( MOBs ) are located and their affiliated healthcare systems to remain competitive or financially viable; 1 Table of Contents our ability to maintain or expand our hospital and health system client relationships; operational risks associated with third party management contracts, including the additional regulation and liabilities of our properties operated through structures permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which includes most of the provisions previously proposed in the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (commonly referred to as RIDEA ); economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas from which we recognize a greater percentage of our revenue; uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in significant losses and/or performance declines by us or our tenants and operators; our investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities, including our lack of sole decision making authority and our reliance on our partners financial condition and continued cooperation; our use of fixed rent escalators, contingent rent provisions and/or rent escalators based on the Consumer Price Index; competition for suitable healthcare properties to grow our investment portfolio; our ability to foreclose on collateral securing our real estate-related loans; our ability to make material acquisitions and successfully integrate them; the potential impact on us and our tenants, operators, and borrowers from litigation matters, including rising liability and insurance costs; an increase in our borrowing costs, including due to higher interest rates; the availability of external capital on acceptable terms or at all, including due to rising interest rates, changes in our credit ratings and the value of our common stock, volatility or uncertainty in the capital markets, and other factors; cash available for distribution to stockholders and our ability to make dividend distributions at expected levels; our ability to manage our indebtedness level and covenants in and changes to the terms of such indebtedness; changes in global, national and local economic and other conditions; laws or regulations prohibiting eviction of our tenants; the failure of our tenants, operators, and borrowers to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, including resident health and safety requirements, as well as licensure, certification, and inspection requirements; required regulatory approvals to transfer our senior housing properties; compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations; the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid; legislation to address federal government operations and administration decisions affecting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; our participation in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ( CARES Act ) Provider Relief Fund and other Covid-related stimulus and relief programs; provisions of Maryland law and our charter that could prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders; environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate investments; our ability to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust ( REIT ); changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, and potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions; calculating non-REIT tax earnings and profits distributions; ownership limits in our charter that restrict ownership in our stock; the loss or limited availability of our key personnel; and our reliance on information technology systems and the potential impact of system failures, disruptions or breaches. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General Overview Healthpeak Properties, Inc. is a Standard Poor s ( S P ) 500 company that acquires, develops, owns, leases, and manages healthcare real estate across the United States ( U.S. ). Our company was originally founded in 1985. We are a Maryland corporation and qualify as a self-administered REIT. Our corporate headquarters are located in Denver, Colorado, and we have additional offices in Irvine, California and Franklin, Tennessee. During 2020, we began the process of disposing of our senior housing triple-net and senior housing operating property ( SHOP ) portfolios. In September 2021, we successfully completed the disposition of both portfolios. Refer to the discussion of recent dispositions in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of Transactions for additional information. As of December 31, 2020, we concluded that the planned dispositions represented a strategic shift that had and will have a major effect on our operations and financial results and, therefore, the assets are classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented herein. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding discontinued operations. In conjunction with the disposal of our senior housing triple-net and SHOP portfolios, we focused our strategy on investing in a diversified portfolio of high-quality healthcare properties across our three core asset classes of life science, medical office, and continuing care retirement community ( CCRC ) real estate. Under the life science and medical office segments, we invest through the acquisition, development and management of life science buildings, MOBs, and hospitals. Under the CCRC segment, our properties are operated through RIDEA structures. We have other non-reportable segments that are comprised primarily of debt investments and an interest in an unconsolidated joint venture that owns 19 senior housing assets (our SWF SH JV ). At December 31, 2021, our portfolio of investments, including properties in our unconsolidated joint ventures, consisted of interests in 484 properties. The following table summarizes information for our reportable segments, excluding discontinued operations, for the year ended December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): Segment Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI (1)(2) Percentage of Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI (1) Number of Properties Life science $ 503,927 49 % 150 Medical office 413,157 40 % 300 CCRC 95,577 9 % 15 Other non-reportable 17,484 2 % 19 Totals $ 1,030,145 100 % 484 _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio metrics include results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information regarding Adjusted NOI and see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of Adjusted NOI by segment to net income (loss). (2) For the year ended December 31, 2021, Adjusted NOI for our senior housing triple-net and SHOP portfolios was $7 million and $4 million, respectively. Operating results for these portfolios are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented herein. For a description of our significant activities during 2021, see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of Transactions in this report. Business Strategy We invest in and manage our real estate portfolio for the long-term to maximize benefit to our stockholders and support the growth of our dividends. Our strategy consists of four core elements: (i) Our real estate : Our portfolio is grounded in high-quality properties in desirable locations. We focus on three purposely selected private pay asset classes life science, medical office, and continuing care retirement community to provide stability through inevitable market cycles. (ii) Our financials : We maintain a strong investment-grade balance sheet with ample liquidity as well as long-term fixed-rate debt financing with staggered maturities to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility and refinancing risk. 3 Table of Contents (iii) Our partnerships : We work with leading healthcare companies, operators, and service providers and are responsive to their space and capital needs. We provide high-quality property management services to encourage tenants to renew, expand, and relocate into our properties, which drives increased occupancy, rental rates, and property values. (iv) Our platform : We have a people-first culture that we believe attracts, develops, and retains top talent. We continually strive to create and maintain an industry-leading platform with systems and tools that allow us to effectively and efficiently manage our assets and investment activity. Internal Growth Strategies We believe our real estate portfolio holds the potential for increased future cash flows as it is well-maintained and in desirable locations. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is to: (i) work with new or existing tenants and operators to address their space and capital needs and (ii) provide high-quality property management services in order to motivate tenants to renew, expand, or relocate into our properties. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to: Build and maintain long-term leasing and management relationships with quality tenants and operators. In choosing locations for our properties, we focus on the physical environment, adjacency to established businesses (e.g., hospital systems) and educational centers, proximity to sources of business growth, and other local demographic factors. Replace tenants and operators at the best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and operators and achieve attractive rental rates and operating cash flow as a result of the location, design, and maintenance of our properties, together with our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer space alternatives within our portfolio. Extend and modify terms of existing leases prior to expiration. We structure lease extensions, early renewals, or modifications, which reduce the cost associated with lease downtime or the re-investment risk resulting from the exercise of tenants purchase options, while securing the tenancy and relationship of our high quality tenants and operators on a long-term basis. Investment Strategies The delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the: (i) compelling long-term demographics driving the demand for healthcare services; (ii) specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and (iii) ongoing consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector. While we emphasize healthcare real estate ownership, we may also provide real estate secured financing to, or invest in equity or debt securities of, healthcare operators or other entities engaged in healthcare real estate ownership. We may also acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, operating companies, or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment strategies. We may co-invest alongside institutional or development investors through partnerships or limited liability companies. We monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment vehicle, or geographic location, the number of properties that may be leased to a single tenant or operator, or loans that may be made to a single borrower. In allocating capital, we target opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for our portfolio as a whole. We may take additional measures to mitigate risk, including diversifying our investments (by sector, geography, tenant, or operator), structuring transactions as master leases, requiring tenant or operator insurance and indemnifications, and/or obtaining credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit, or security deposits. We believe we are well-positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions, financing, and development. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include: our reputation gained through over 35 years of successful operations and the strength of our existing portfolio of properties; our relationships with leading healthcare operators and systems, investment banks and other market intermediaries, corporations, private equity firms, not-for-profit organizations, and public institutions seeking to monetize existing assets or develop new facilities; our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality healthcare real estate; 4 Table of Contents our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions responsively and efficiently, which provides confidence to domestic and foreign institutions and private investors who seek to sell healthcare real estate in our market areas; our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the healthcare and real estate industries; and our control of sites (including assets under contract with radius restrictions). Financing Strategies Our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains); therefore, we do not retain a significant amount of earnings. As a result, we regularly access the public equity and debt markets to raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions and debt investments, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt. We may finance acquisitions and other investments primarily through the following vehicles: cash flow from operations; sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties or other investments; borrowings under our credit facility or commercial paper program; issuance of additional debt, including unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt; and/or issuance of common stock or preferred stock or its equivalent. We maintain a disciplined investment-grade balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining access to multiple sources of liquidity. Our debt obligations are primarily long-term fixed rate with staggered maturities. We finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit facility or commercial paper program, arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources, or issue equity securities pursuant to our at-the-market equity offering program. We arrange for longer-term financing by offering debt and equity, placing mortgage debt, and obtaining capital from institutional lenders and joint venture partners. Segments Life science Our life science properties, which contain laboratory and office space, are leased primarily to biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies, and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops, and related amenities. In addition to improvements funded by us as the landlord, many of our life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space to accommodate biology, chemistry, or medical device research initiatives. Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for scientific research and drug discovery, including San Francisco (49%) and San Diego (22%), California, and Boston, Massachusetts (24%) (based on available square feet). At December 31, 2021, 88% of our life science properties were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet). The following table provides information about our most significant life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2021: Tenants Percentage of Segment Revenues Percentage of Total Revenues Amgen, Inc. 8 % 3 % 5 Table of Contents Medical office Our medical office segment includes medical office buildings (MOBs) and hospitals. MOBs typically contain physicians offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space, and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics, and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical, and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain vaults or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 87% of our MOBs located on or adjacent to hospital campuses and 98% affiliated with hospital systems as of December 31, 2021 (based on available square feet). Occasionally, we invest in MOBs located on hospital campuses subject to ground leases. At December 31, 2021, approximately 65% of our MOBs were net leased (based on leased square feet) with the remaining leased under gross or modified gross leases. The following table provides information about our most significant medical office tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2021: Tenant Percentage of Segment Revenues Percentage of Total Revenues HCA Healthcare, Inc. (HCA) 22 % 8 % Our medical office segment also includes nine hospitals. Services provided by our tenants and operators in hospitals are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and HMOs), or through Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, and specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. All of our hospitals are triple-net leased. Continuing care retirement community, or CCRC CCRCs are retirement communities that include independent living, assisted living, and skilled nursing units to provide a continuum of care in an integrated campus. Our CCRCs are owned through RIDEA structures, which is permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, and includes most of the provisions previously proposed in the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (commonly referred to as RIDEA ). The services provided by our third-party manager-operators under a RIDEA structure at our properties are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. A RIDEA structure allows us, through a taxable REIT subsidiary ( TRS ), to receive cash flow from the operations of a healthcare facility in compliance with REIT tax requirements. The criteria for operating a healthcare facility through a RIDEA structure require us to lease the facility to an affiliate TRS and for such affiliate TRS to engage an independent qualifying management company (also known as an eligible independent contractor or third-party operator) to manage and operate the day-to-day business of the facility in exchange for a management fee. As a result, under a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on a third-party operator to hire and train all facility employees, enter into third-party contracts for the benefit of the facility, including resident/patient agreements, comply with laws, including healthcare laws, and provide resident care. We are substantially limited in our ability to control or influence day-to-day operations under a RIDEA structure, and thus rely on the third-party operator to manage and operate the business. Through our TRS entities, we bear all operational risks and liabilities associated with the operation of these properties, with limited exceptions, such as a third-party operator s gross negligence or willful misconduct. These operational risks and liabilities include those relating to any employment matters of our operator, compliance with healthcare and other laws, liabilities relating to personal injury-tort matters, resident-patient quality of care claims, and any governmental reimbursement matters, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our third-party operators management of these risks. The management agreements we have in RIDEA structures related to CCRCs have original terms ranging from 10 to 15 years, with mutual renewal options. There are base management fees and incentive management fees payable to our third-party operators if operating results of the RIDEA properties exceed pre-established thresholds. Conversely, there are also provisions in the management agreements that reduce management fees payable to our third-party operators if operating results do not meet certain pre-established thresholds. CCRCs are different from other housing and care options for seniors because they typically provide written agreements or long-term contracts between residents and the communities (frequently lasting the term of the resident s lifetime), which offer a continuum of housing, services, and healthcare on one campus or site. CCRCs are appealing as they allow residents to age in place and typically require the individual to be independent and in relatively good health upon entry. 6 Table of Contents As third-party operators manage our RIDEA properties in exchange for the receipt of a management fee, we are not directly exposed to the credit risk of these operators in the same manner or to the same extent as a triple-net tenant. Other non-reportable segment At December 31, 2021, we had the following investments in our other non-reportable segments: (i) our unconsolidated joint venture with a sovereign wealth fund that owns 19 senior housing assets (which we refer to as our SWF SH JV), and (ii) debt investments. The properties in our SWF SH JV are owned through RIDEA structures and include independent living facilities and assisted living facilities, which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Competition Investing in real estate serving the healthcare industry is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment companies, pension funds, private equity investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers, and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater flexibility (e.g., non-REIT competitors), greater resources, and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition and resulting capitalization rate compression make it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our objectives. Our ability to compete may also be impacted by global, national, and local economic trends, availability of investment alternatives, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, existing laws and regulations, new legislation, and population trends. Income from our investments depends on o