Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 Part II 34 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 68 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 136 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 136 Item 9B. Other Information 139 Part III 140 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 140 Item 11. Executive Compensation 140 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 140 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 140 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 140 Part IV 141 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 141 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 145 Table of Contents All references in this report to Healthpeak, the Company, we, us or our mean Healthpeak Properties, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless the context suggests otherwise, references to Healthpeak Properties, Inc. mean the parent company without its subsidiaries. Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical factual statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding our and our officers intent, belief or expectation as identified by the use of words such as may, will, project, expect, believe, intend, anticipate, seek, target, forecast, plan, potential, estimate, could, would, should and other comparable and derivative terms or the negatives thereof. Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations and views about future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect our future financial condition and results of operations. While forward-looking statements reflect our good faith belief and assumptions we believe to be reasonable based upon current information, we can give no assurance that our expectations or forecasts will be attained. Further, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of any such forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report, and such forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. As more fully set forth under Item 1A, Risk Factors in this report, these risks and uncertainties include, among other things: operational risks associated with third party management contracts, including the additional regulation and liabilities of our RIDEA lease structures; the ability of our existing and future tenants, operators and borrowers to conduct their respective businesses in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase their revenues and manage their expenses in order to generate sufficient income to make rent and loan payments to us and our ability to recover investments made, if applicable, in their operations; the financial condition of our existing and future tenants, operators, and borrowers, including potential bankruptcies and downturns in their businesses, and their legal and regulatory proceedings, which may result in uncertainties regarding our ability to continue to realize the full benefit of such tenants and operators leases and borrowers loans; our concentration in the healthcare property sector, particularly in senior housing, life sciences and medical office buildings, which makes our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn in a specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries; the effect on us and our tenants and operators of legislation, executive orders and other legal requirements, including compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, fire, safety and health regulations, environmental laws, the Affordable Care Act, licensure, certification and inspection requirements, and laws addressing entitlement programs and related services, including Medicare and Medicaid, which may result in future reductions in reimbursements or fines for noncompliance; our ability to identify replacement tenants and operators and the potential renovation costs and regulatory approvals associated therewith; the risks associated with property development and redevelopment, including costs above original estimates, project delays and lower occupancy rates and rents than expected; the potential impact of uninsured or underinsured losses; the risks associated with our investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities, including our lack of sole decision making authority and our reliance on our partners financial condition and continued cooperation; competition for the acquisition and financing of suitable healthcare properties as well as competition for tenants and operators, including with respect to new leases and mortgages and the renewal or rollover of existing leases; our, or our counterparties', ability to fulfill obligations, such as financing conditions and/or regulatory approval requirements, required to successfully consummate acquisitions, dispositions, transitions, developments, redevelopments, joint venture transactions, or other transactions; our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions or other investments within expected time frames or at all, or within expected cost projections; the potential impact on us and our tenants, operators and borrowers from current and future litigation matters, including the possibility of larger than expected litigation costs, adverse results, and related developments; 1 Table of Contents changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, including those affecting the healthcare industry that affect our costs of compliance or increase the costs, or otherwise affect the operations, of our tenants and operators; our ability to foreclose on collateral securing our real estate-related loans; volatility or uncertainty in the capital markets, the availability and cost of capital as impacted by interest rates, changes in our credit ratings, and the value of our common stock, and other conditions that may adversely impact our ability to fund our obligations or consummate transactions, or reduce the earnings from potential transactions; changes in global, national and local economic and other conditions; our ability to manage our indebtedness level and changes in the terms of such indebtedness; competition for skilled management and other key personnel; our reliance on information technology systems and the potential impact of system failures, disruptions or breaches; and our ability to maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust ( REIT ). Except as required by law, we do not undertake, and hereby disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General Overview Healthpeak Properties, Inc. is a Standard Poor's ("S P") 500 company that acquires, develops, owns, leases, and manages healthcare real estate across the United States ("U.S."). We are a Maryland corporation and qualify as a self-administered REIT. We are headquartered in Irvine, California, with additional offices in Nashville and San Francisco. At December 31, 2019 , we had 204 full-time employees. On October 30, 2019, we changed our name from HCP, Inc. to Healthpeak Properties, Inc. Our common shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the new name and ticker symbol, "PEAK", on November 5, 2019. We invest in a diversified portfolio of high-quality healthcare properties across our three core asset classes of senior housing, life science, and medical office real estate. Our senior housing properties are either operated under triple-net leases in our senior housing triple-net segment or through RIDEA structures in our senior housing operating portfolio ( SHOP ) segment. Under the life science and medical office segments, we invest through the acquisition, development, and management of life science buildings and medical office buildings. We have other non-reportable segments that are comprised primarily of our unconsolidated joint ventures, hospital properties, and debt investments. At December 31, 2019 , our consolidated portfolio of investments consisted of interests in 617 properties. We also owned interests in 48 properties owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures at December 31, 2019 . The following table summarizes information for our reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands): Segment Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI (1) Percentage of Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI (1) Number of Properties Senior housing triple-net $ 197,601 18 % 90 SHOP 162,330 15 % 115 Life science 311,192 29 % 134 Medical office 364,115 33 % 267 Other non-reportable (2) 51,873 5 % 11 Totals $ 1,087,111 100 % 617 _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio metrics include results of operations from disposed properties and properties that transitioned segments through the disposition or transition date. Adjusted NOI excludes our share of income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures. See "Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for additional information regarding Adjusted NOI and see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of Adjusted NOI by segment to net income (loss). (2) Adjusted NOI for Other non-reportable segments excludes our share of earnings from unconsolidated joint ventures, which is recorded in equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations. For a description of our significant activities during 2019 , see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 2019 Transaction Overview in this report. Business Strategy We invest in and manage our real estate portfolio for the long-term to maximize benefit to our stockholders and support the growth of our dividends. Our strategy consists of four core elements: (i) Our real estate : Our portfolio is grounded in high-quality properties in desirable locations. We focus on three purposely selected private pay asset classes, senior housing, life science, and medical office, to provide stability through inevitable market cycles. (ii) Our financials : We maintain a strong investment-grade balance sheet with ample liquidity as well as long-term fixed-rate debt financing with staggered maturities to reduce our exposure to interest-rate volatility and refinancing risk. (iii) Our partnerships : We work with leading healthcare companies, operators, and service providers and are responsive to their space and capital needs. We provide high-quality management services to encourage tenants to renew, expand, and relocate into our properties, which drives increased occupancy, rental rates, and property values. 3 Table of Contents (iv) Our platform : We have a people-first culture that we believe attracts, develops, and retains top talent. We continually strive to create and maintain an industry-leading platform with systems and tools that allow us to effectively and efficiently manage our assets and investment activity. Internal Growth Strategies We believe our real estate portfolio holds the potential for increased future cash flows as it is well-maintained and in desirable locations. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is to: (i) work with new or existing tenants and operators to address their space and capital needs and (ii) provide high-quality property management services in order to motivate tenants to renew, expand, or relocate into our properties. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to: Build and maintain long-term leasing and management relationships with quality tenants and operators. In choosing locations for our properties, we focus on the physical environment, adjacency to established businesses (e.g., hospital systems) and educational centers, proximity to sources of business growth, and other local demographic factors. Replace tenants and operators at the best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and operators and achieve attractive rental rates and operating cash flow as a result of the location, design, and maintenance of our properties, together with our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer space alternatives within our portfolio. Extend and modify terms of existing leases prior to expiration. We structure lease extensions, early renewals, or modifications, which reduce the cost associated with lease downtime or the re-investment risk resulting from the exercise of tenants purchase options, while securing the tenancy and relationship of our high quality tenants and operators on a long-term basis. Investment Strategies The delivery of healthcare services requires real estate and, as a result, tenants and operators depend on real estate, in part, to maintain and grow their businesses. We believe the healthcare real estate market provides investment opportunities due to the: (i) compelling long-term demographics driving the demand for healthcare services; (ii) specialized nature of healthcare real estate investing; and (iii) ongoing consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector. While we emphasize healthcare real estate ownership, we may also provide real estate secured financing to, or invest in equity or debt securities of, healthcare operators or other entities engaged in healthcare real estate ownership. We may also acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, operating companies, or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment strategies. We may co-invest alongside institutional or development investors through partnerships or limited liability companies. We monitor, but do not limit, our investments based on the percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property type, investment vehicle, or geographic location, the number of properties that may be leased to a single tenant or operator, or loans that may be made to a single borrower. In allocating capital, we target opportunities with the most attractive risk/reward profile for our portfolio as a whole. We may take additional measures to mitigate risk, including diversifying our investments (by sector, geography, tenant, or operator), structuring transactions as master leases, requiring tenant or operator insurance and indemnifications, and/or obtaining credit enhancements in the form of guarantees, letters of credit, or security deposits. We believe we are well-positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions, financing, and development. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include: our reputation gained through over 30 years of successful operations and the strength of our existing portfolio of properties; our relationships with leading healthcare operators and systems, investment banks and other market intermediaries, corporations, private equity firms, not-for-profit organizations, and public institutions seeking to monetize existing assets or develop new facilities; our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality healthcare real estate; our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions responsively and efficiently, which provides confidence to domestic and foreign institutions and private investors who seek to sell healthcare real estate in our market areas; our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the healthcare and real estate industries; and 4 Table of Contents our control of sites (including assets under contract with radius restrictions). Financing Strategies Our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding net capital gains); therefore, we do not retain a significant amount of capital. As a result, we regularly access the public equity and debt markets to raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions and debt investments, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt. We may finance acquisitions and other investments through the following vehicles: cash flow from operations; sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties or other investments; borrowings under our credit facility or commercial paper program; issuance of additional debt, including unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt; and/or issuance of common stock or preferred stock or its equivalent. We maintain a disciplined balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and maintaining multiple sources of liquidity. Our debt obligations are primarily long-term fixed rate with staggered maturities. We finance our investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit facility or commercial paper program, arrange for other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources, or issue equity securities pursuant to our at-the-market equity offering program. We arrange for longer-term financing by offering debt and equity securities, placing mortgage debt, and obtaining capital from institutional lenders and joint venture partners. Segments Senior housing (triple-net and senior housing operating portfolio, or SHOP) Our senior housing properties are owned either through triple-net leases with third party tenant-operators or through so-called RIDEA structures, which is permitted by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, and includes most of the provisions previously proposed in the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (commonly referred to as RIDEA ). Our senior housing properties include independent living facilities ( ILFs ), assisted living facilities ( ALFs ), memory care facilities ( MCFs ), and continuing care retirement communities ( CCRCs ), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their personal needs. The services provided by our third party tenant-operators under triple-net leases or by our third-party manager-operators under a RIDEA structure at our properties are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Our triple-net leases are typically long-term agreements with third party tenant-operators. Under triple-net leases, our tenant-operators are typically responsible for the ongoing expenses of the property, including real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance, in addition to paying rent and utilities. Additionally, operational risks and liabilities are the responsibility of our tenant-operator, including with respect to any employment matters, compliance with healthcare and other laws and liabilities relating to personal injury-tort matters, resident-patient quality of care claims, and governmental reimbursement matters. A RIDEA structure allows us, through a taxable REIT subsidiary ( TRS ), to receive cash flow from the operations of a healthcare facility (as compared to only receiving contractual rent from a third-party tenant-operator under a triple-net lease structure) in compliance with REIT tax requirements. The criteria for operating a healthcare facility through a RIDEA structure require us to lease the facility to an affiliate TRS under a triple-net lease, and for such affiliate TRS to engage an independent qualifying management company (also known as an eligible independent contractor or third-party operator) to manage and operate the day-to-day business of the facility in exchange for a management fee. As a result, under a RIDEA structure, we are required to rely on a third-party operator to hire and train all facility employees, enter into many third-party contracts for the benefit of the facility, including resident/patient agreements, comply with laws, including but not limited to healthcare laws, and provide resident care. We are substantially limited in our ability to control or influence day-to-day operations under a RIDEA structure, and thus rely on the third-party tenant-operator to manage and operate the business. 5 Table of Contents Unlike our triple-net leased properties, through our TRS, we bear all operational risks and liabilities associated with the operation of these properties, with limited exceptions, such as a third-party operator s gross negligence or willful misconduct. These operational risks and liabilities include those relating to any employment matters of our operator, compliance with healthcare and other laws and liabilities relating to personal injury-tort matters, resident-patient quality of care claims, and any governmental reimbursement matters, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our third-party operators management of these risks. We view RIDEA as an important structure for senior housing properties that present attractive valuation entry points and/or growth profiles, and this structure has become the preferred structure (as opposed to triple-net leases) among most high-quality operators in the senior housing industry. Many of the management agreements we have in RIDEA structures have terms ranging from 5 to 15 years, with mutual renewal options. The base management fees are typically 4.5% to 5.0% of gross revenues (as defined in the respective management agreements) generated by the RIDEA properties. In addition, there are sometimes incentive management fees payable to our third-party operators if operating results of the RIDEA properties exceed pre-established thresholds. Conversely, there are sometimes provisions in the management agreements that reduce management fees payable to our third-party operators if operating results do not meet certain pre-established thresholds. Our senior housing property types under both triple-net leases and RIDEA structures are further described below: Independent Living Facilities. ILFs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded socially by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals, and activities. Additionally, the programs and services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting, and other activities sought by residents. These residents generally do not need assistance with activities of daily living ( ADL ). However, in some of our facilities, residents have the option to contract for these services. Assisted Living Facilities. ALFs are licensed care facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with ADL, such as bathing, eating, dressing and medication management, yet require limited medical care. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may have a dedicated portion of a facility that offers higher levels of personal assistance for residents requiring memory care as a result of Alzheimer s disease or other forms of dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. Memory Care Facilities. MCFs address the unique challenges of residents with Alzheimer s disease or other forms of dementia. Residents may live in semi-private apartments or private rooms and have structured activities delivered by staff members trained specifically on how to care for residents with memory impairment. These facilities offer programs that provide comfort and care in a secure environment. Continuing Care Retirement Communities. CCRCs offer several levels of service, including independent living, assisted living, and skilled nursing home care. CCRCs are different from other housing and care options for seniors because they usually provide written agreements or long-term contracts between residents and the communities (frequently lasting the term of the resident s lifetime), which offer a continuum of housing, services and healthcare on one campus or site. CCRCs are appealing as they allow residents to age in place. CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. The following table provides information about our senior housing triple-net tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2019 : Tenant Percentage of Segment Revenues Percentage of Total Revenues Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. ( Brookdale ) (1) 38 % 4 % _______________________________________ (1) Excludes facilities operated by Brookdale in our SHOP segment, as discussed below. Percentages of segment and total revenues include partial-year revenue earned from senior housing triple-net facilities that were sold or transitioned during 2019 . Accordingly, the percentages of segment and total revenues are expected to decrease in 2020 (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As third-party operators manage our RIDEA properties in exchange for the receipt of a management fee, we are not directly exposed to the credit risk of these operators in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants. 6 Table of Contents Life science These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies, and other organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties have characteristics similar to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical, heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems. The facilities generally have specialty equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops, and related amenities. In many instances, life science tenants make significant investments to improve their leased space, in addition to landlord improvements, to accommodate biology, chemistry, or medical device research initiatives. Life science properties are primarily configured in business park or campus settings and include multiple buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion to accommodate the growth of existing tenants. Our properties are located in well-established geographical markets known for scientific research and drug discovery, including San Francisco (57%) and San Diego (25%), California, and Boston, Massachusetts (12%) (based on square feet). At December 31, 2019 , 87% of our life science properties were triple-net leased (based on leased square feet). The following table provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2019 : Tenants Percentage of Segment Revenues Percentage of Total Revenues Amgen, Inc. 12 % 3 % Medical office Medical office buildings ( MOBs ) typically contain physicians offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space, and outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics, and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require additional plumbing, electrical, and mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room and special equipment such as x-ray machines. In addition, MOBs are often built to accommodate higher structural loads for certain equipment and may contain vaults or other specialized construction. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices), with approximately 84% of our MOBs located on hospital campuses and 95% affiliated with hospital systems (based on square feet). Occasionally, we invest in MOBs located on hospital campuses subject to ground leases. At December 31, 2019 , approximately 58% of our MOBs were net leased (based on leased square feet) with the remaining leased under gross or modified gross leases. The following table provides information about our medical office tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2019 : Tenant Percentage of Segment Revenues Percentage of Total Revenues HCA Healthcare, Inc. (HCA) 23 % 6 % Other non-reportable segments. At December 31, 2019 , we had interests in 11 hospitals and 10 debt investments. Additionally, we had interests in 43 senior housing facilities, 3 MOBs, and 2 post-acute/skilled nursing facilities ( SNFs ) owned and operated by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Services provided by our tenants and operators in hospitals are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and HMOs) or through Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, and specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. SNFs offer restorative, rehabilitative, and custodial nursing care for people following a hospital stay or not requiring the more extensive and complex treatment available at hospitals. All of our hospitals are triple-net lease