Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 1 C . C yber securit y 23 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Information About Our Executive Officers 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B. Other Information 102 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 102 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 103 Item 11. Executive Compensation 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 104 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 105 Item 14 . Principal Accountant Fees and Services 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 110 SIGNATURES 111 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Dover Corporation is a diversified global manufacturer and solutions provider delivering innovative equipment and components, consumable supplies, aftermarket parts, software and digital solutions and support services through five operating segments: Engineered Products, Clean Energy Fueling, Imaging Identification, Pumps Process Solutions, and Climate Sustainability Technologies. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references herein to "Dover," "the Company," and words such as "we," "us," or "our" include Dover Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Dover was incorporated in 1947 in the State of Delaware and became a publicly traded company in 1955. Dover is headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois and currently employs over 25,000 people worldwide. Dover's five segments are structured around businesses with similar business models, go-to-market strategies, product categories, and manufacturing practices. This structure increases management efficiency and better aligns Dover's operations with its strategic initiatives and capital allocation priorities, and provides greater transparency about performance to external stakeholders. Dover's five operating and reportable segments are as follows: Our Engineered Products segment provides a wide range of equipment, components, software, solutions and services to the vehicle aftermarket, waste handling, industrial automation, aerospace and defense, industrial winch and hoist, and fluid dispensing end-markets. Our Clean Energy Fueling segment provides components, equipment, software, solutions and services enabling safe and reliable storage, transport and dispensing of traditional and clean fuels (including liquefied natural gas, hydrogen, and electric vehicle charging), cryogenic gases, and other hazardous substances along the supply chain, and safe and efficient operation of convenience retail, retail fueling and vehicle wash establishments. Our Imaging Identification s egment supplies precision marking and coding, product traceability, brand protection and digital textile printing equipment, as well as related consumables, software and services to the global packaged and consumer goods, pharmaceutical, industrial manufacturing, textile and other end-markets. Our Pumps Process Solutions segment manufactures specialty pumps and flow meters, highly engineered precision components, specialized instrumentation and digital controls for rotating and reciprocating machines, fluid connecting solutions and plastics and polymer processing equipment, serving single-use biopharmaceutical production, diversified industrial manufacturing, chemical production, plastics and polymer processing, midstream and downstream oil and gas, energy transition, thermal management applications and other end-markets. Our Climate Sustainability Technologies segment is a provider of innovative and energy-efficient equipment, components and parts for the commercial refrigeration, heating and cooling and beverage can-making equipment end-markets. 4 Table of Contents Management Philosophy Dover is committed to steady shareholder value creation through a combination of sustained long-term profitable growth, operational excellence, superior free cash flow generation and productive capital re-deployment while adhering to a conservative financial policy. Dover seeks to be a leader in a diverse set of growing markets where customers are loyal to trusted partners and suppliers, and value product performance and differentiation driven by superior engineering, manufacturing precision, total solution development and excellent supply chain performance. Our businesses are long-time leaders in their respective markets and are known for their innovation, engineering capability and customer service excellence. We aim to continue growing our businesses from this strong foundation. Our operating structure of five business segments allows for a differentiated acquisition focus consistent with our portfolio and capital allocation priorities. We believe our business segment structure, coupled with value-creating functional expertise at our lean corporate center, presents opportunities to identify and capture operating synergies, such as global sourcing and supply chain integration, centralized shared services, cross-pollination of manufacturing best practices, and further advances the development of our executive talent. Our executive management team sets strategic direction, initiatives and goals, develops effective incentive structures, provides oversight of strategy execution and achievement of these goals for our business segments, and with oversight from our Board of Directors, makes capital allocation decisions, including with respect to organic investment initiatives, major capital projects, acquisitions, divestitures, and the return of capital to our shareholders. Our goal is to foster an operating culture with high ethical and performance standards that values accountability, rigor, trust, inclusion, respect and open communications, designed to allow individual growth and operational effectiveness. We are also increasing our focus on maintaining sustainable business practices that reduce environmental impact, and developing products that help our customers meet their sustainability goals. Company Goals We are committed to driving superior shareholder returns through three key tenets of our corporate strategy. First , we are committed to achieving organic sales growth above that of gross domestic product (4% to 6% annually on average) over a long-term business cycle, absent prolonged adverse economic conditions, complemented by growth through strategic acquisitions. Second , we continue to focus on improving returns on capital, as well as earnings margin by enhancing our operational capabilities and making investments across the organization in growth capacity expansion, digital capabilities, automation, operations management, information technology ("IT"), shared services (including Dover Business Services and our India Innovation Center), and talent. We also focus on continuous, effective cost management and productivity initiatives, such as supply chain optimization, automation and productivity capital expenditures, e-commerce and digital go-to-market, restructuring, product complexity reduction, improved footprint utilization, strategic pricing and portfolio management. Third , we aim to generate growth in free cash flow and earnings per share through strong earnings performance, productivity improvements and active working capital management, which is enhanced by opportunistic divestitures allowing for concentration on growing our core platforms. Dover prioritizes deploying free cash flow towards high-return and high-confidence organic reinvestments aimed at growing, improving and strengthening our businesses, as well as through inorganic investments that synergistically enhance the quality of our portfolio. Dover's value creation strategy is supported by a financial policy that includes a prudent approach to financial leverage, and a disciplined approach to capital allocation that allows for a balance between reinvestment and return of capital to shareholders through growing dividends and opportunistic share repurchases. We support achievement of these goals by (1) aligning management compensation with strategic and financial objectives, (2) actively managing our portfolio to increase enterprise scale, improve business mix over time to markets with secular growth characteristics, and pursue acquisitions that fit the characteristics of an ideal Dover business and (3) investing in talent development programs. 5 Table of Contents Characteristics of a Dover Business For over 65 years, Dover has successfully and profitably operated a diversified portfolio of high-quality businesses serving a wide variety of industrial and business-to-business end markets with different business models. We believe this diversity is a strength of our portfolio, providing Dover with multiple avenues for organic and inorganic growth, lower cyclicality, and the ability to extract synergies of common ownership. While we expect our portfolio to remain diversified, we also strive to shape the portfolio over time to increase common attractive attributes across our businesses. Dover is adept at operating businesses within two core operating models: Component Businesses : Many of our businesses produce critical components that represent a small portion of a larger system by cost. For example, our industrial and biopharma pumps, biopharma connectors, engineered bearings and compression components, clean energy components, and heat exchangers are all part of larger systems built or employed by our customers. Such components typically serve demanding applications where value-in-use and costs and risks of switching far exceed the cost of the component itself. Equipment with Aftermarket Opportunity : Many of our businesses produce complex and highly engineered equipment and systems that require a significant and predictable volume of parts, consumables, software and services over their life cycle. For example, our marking and coding equipment, plastics and polymer processing equipment, aluminum can-making equipment, and refuse collection vehicles all derive a significant share of revenue and profits from sale of consumables, parts and services into their large installed base. Recurring demand, which includes parts, consumables, services and software, represents approximately 31% of our revenue. We see the following commonalities characterizing the majority of Dover businesses: Attractive Markets : Our businesses generally operate in strategically attractive niche industrial markets with proven and well-understood long-term growth trends, favorable customer and supplier landscapes, mature and incrementally improving technologies with opportunities for technological differentiation, and highly loyal customers, suppliers or channel partners. Leading Positions : Our businesses are long-time leaders in their respective markets and have consistently enjoyed customer bases that choose products primarily based on their performance, track record, safety and compliance. Digital Opportunity : Our equipment and components are often complemented by value-added digital applications, including connected products, sensors, digital controls and industry-specific software that create new sources of value for our customers. Attractive Financial Profile : Our businesses exhibit attractive financial profiles, characterized by predictable, stable revenue, low capital intensity, strong cash-flow and sustainable returns on invested capital well in excess of our cost of capital. Business Strategy Dover seeks to create value for shareholders by combining the global scale and capabilities, as well as access to capital, of a diversified industrial enterprise with the agility and entrepreneurial dynamism of niche manufacturing businesses. To achieve our stated goals, we are focused on executing the following pillars of Dover's business strategy: Capturing growth potential in our end-markets and adjacent market segments Dover s business segments are focused on building enduring competitive advantages and leadership positions in markets we believe are positioned for sustained future growth. We believe our businesses are among the top suppliers in most markets and niches we serve (as defined by customer applications, geographies or products), which positions us well to capture future growth. We capitalize on our engineering, technology and design expertise, and maintain an intense focus on meeting the needs of our customers and on adding significant, and often new, value to their operations through superior product performance, safety, reliability, and a commitment to aftermarket support. We cultivate and maintain an entrepreneurial culture to enable business agility, and continuously innovate to address our customers' needs, to help them win in the markets they serve. 6 Table of Contents In particular, our businesses are well-positioned to capitalize on: growing industrial manufacturing and trade volumes; an increased global focus on digitization and automation in industrial processes; increasing requirements for sustainability, safety, energy efficiency and consumer product safety; and growth of the middle class and consumption in emerging economies. Our Engineered Products segment is capitalizing on global infrastructure investment, secular growth in waste generation and the increasing sophistication and automation of waste collection operations, increasing global car parc, average car age and annual miles driven, increasing digitization and sensorization of modern vehicles, as well as growing defense spending related to signal intelligence and electronic warfare. Our Clean Energy Fueling segment benefits from the worldwide growth in environmental safety and compliance regulations, new infrastructure build-out in emerging economies, transition to clean energy products such as liquefied natural gas and hydrogen, growth in demand for cryogenic gases and electric vehicle charging, consolidation in the convenience retail sector, increased digitization of convenience stores and fuel retailing, as well as secular growth in automated vehicle wash systems and solutions (over manual and do-it-yourself washing). Our Imaging Identification segment leverages its unique product offering containing equipment, consumables, software and services to address market needs and requirements, including conversion to digital textile printing, increased demand for product traceability and brand protection, and consumer product safety. Our Pumps Process Solutions segment is focused on: capturing growth in its installed base; the growing sophistication of fluid transfer and rotating machinery components, instrumentation, and digital controls; growth in virgin and recycled plastics and polymers production; growth in biological drug production and the shift toward single-use manufacturing processes; and energy transition investments into wind power, hydrogen compression, and carbon capture. Our Climate Sustainability Technologies segment is responding to our customers' demand for increased energy efficiency and sustainability in food retail merchandising solutions, including refrigeration systems using CO 2 refrigerant, as well as increasing demand for sustainable heating and cooling solutions, including heat pumps, and sustainability-driven growing global demand for aluminum beverage cans. We aim to capture growth by making organic investments in capacity expansion, automation and productivity improvement, research and development, developing new products and technologies, improving digital capabilities and expanding our geographic coverage. We pursue a disciplined and strategic approach to acquisitions aiming to enhance the quality and attractiveness of our portfolio over time and position Dover for long-term growth. We evaluate acquisition opportunities across the portfolio where we see the greatest runway for value-creating inorganic capital deployment. We continually evaluate how our assets and capabilities can position us to grow in markets adjacent to our core businesses (for example, new applications, geographies, product segments or adjacent technologies) where we can be advantaged. In addition to product innovation, we aim to capture growth by developing digital technologies. Our Boston-based Dover Digital Labs serves as the company-wide hub for our digital initiative. We have continued to invest in this facility and our team of software developers, data scientists, and product managers to enhance our digital capabilities. The Digital Labs team is driving digital transformation across our businesses in four areas: (i) enhancing the customer experience through more efficient and streamlined digital customer interfaces that make it easy to do business with Dover companies; (ii) developing and improving acquired and organically built connected and software-as-a-service ("SaaS") products, that combine sensors, software, machine learning and artificial intelligence; (iii) driving increased efficiency, safety and quality in our manufacturing operations by employing cutting-edge automation through "connected factory" and "data quality" programs; and (iv) ensuring security of digital products. We believe the Digital Labs contributions in these areas enable us to add significant value to our products and to capture commercial growth opportunities. By leveraging a central resource for Commercial Excellence, Industry 4.0, Industrial Internet of Things ("IIoT") and our software products, we are able to capture efficiencies in our digital transformation efforts, improve product security, and offer better efficiency in providing support and engineering for our software and connected products to keep our projects cost-competitive. 7 Table of Contents Improving profitability and return on invested capital We are committed to generating sustainable returns on invested capital well above the cost of capital across all of our businesses. We continually evaluate and pursue opportunities to improve efficiency, margin and return on capital. We are intensely foc used on driving operational excellence across our businesses. We have implemented numerous productivity initiatives to maximize our efficiency, such as supply chain integration, shared services, lean manufacturing principles and production automation, footprint optimization, and product complexity reduction, as well as workplace safety initiatives to help ensure the health and welfare of our employees. Our businesses place a strong emphasis on continual product quality improvement and new product development to better serve customers and to facilitate expansion into new products and geographic markets. We also focus on margin expansion initiatives designed to reduce our selling, general and administrative cost base and rationalize our manufacturing and supply chain footprint across the portfolio. We continually expand initiatives to extract productivity gains across the businesses and realize savings. Our margin expansion initiatives are focused on four core enterprise capabilities: (1) leverage our Digital Labs team to enhance our internal and market-facing digital capabilities, (2) improve utilization and optimization of our manufacturing footprint through centralized resources and investment, (3) further centralize shared services under Dover Business Services, and (4) invest in our India Innovation Center shared services. Dover Digital . Our Dover Digital Labs consists of a team of approximately 150 software developers, data scientists, manufacturing engineers and product managers who provide digital capabilities to enhance the customer experience, develop connected industrial products and artificial intelligence based models that are embedded in SaaS offerings provided to customers by our operating companies, drive automation and efficiency inside our factories through digital technologies and in our business processes and focus on the security of our digital products. Our Dover Digital Labs team has built common platforms which are being deployed on customer facing applications to make it easier to discover, find, configure, buy and obtain products and services from Dover companies. It has also deployed shared IIoT capability such that many of Dover's products are remotely configurable and monitored, enabling our businesses to sell aftermarket parts and offer remote diagnostic services. Dover Operational Excellence . Our corporate team is composed of functional experts in operational optimization, lean manufacturing, automation, EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) and complex project management. This team works closely with our businesses to drive execution excellence in our operational processes, standards and measurement tools to identify, prioritize and monitor execution of operational improvement initiatives. With expertise in health and safety, supply chain management, lean operations, project management, and advanced manufacturing and automation, we continue to focus on initiatives to improve operational efficiency and enhance and solidify the continuous improvement programs embedded in our businesses' day-to-day operations. In 2022, we established our advanced manufacturing center of excellence and expanded it again into 2023. Dover Business Services . We continue to invest in Dover Business Services shared service centers, consisting of a team of approximately 600 professionals, to provide important transactional and value-added services to our businesses. Our shared service model allows us to leverage scale across Dover, increase process efficiencies through technology and specialization, and reduce risk through centralized controls. Our shared service centers create value by freeing resources within our businesses that would otherwise be dedicated to transactional services and allowing them to focus on customers, markets and product excellence. We expect to continue driving efficiencies through Dover Business Services as we increase the level of service centralization across the portfolio. India Innovation Center . Our India Innovation Center has a team of approximately 800 engineers and IT professionals that our businesses rely on to leverage for product engineering, digital solutions development, data and information management, research and development, and intellectual property services. The scale of this team allows our businesses to access resources with capabilities and expertise across many disciplines that would be more costly to them as stand-alone companies, and allows for concurrent engineering on time sensitive projects. We have been steadily investing in the build out and deployment of the above four enterprise capabilities in the past several years, including investing over $38.6 million in capital expenditures during 2019-2023, and significantly expanding the staff of experts and support personnel in key centers of excellence globally. 8 Table of Contents Disciplined capital allocation and continuous portfolio enhancement We are focused on the most efficient allocation of capital to maximize returns on investment. To do this, we utilize organic reinvestment to grow and strengthen our existing businesses. We plan to make average annual investments in capital spending of approximately 2% of revenue with a focus on internal projects designed to expand our market participation and manufacturing capacity, drive further adoption of e-commerce and digital capabilities, and improve productivity. In addition, we seek to deploy capital for acquisitions in attractive growth areas across our five segments. Dover focuses primarily on bolt-on acquisitions, applying strict selection criteria of market attractiveness (including growth, market landscape, and performance-based competition), business fit (including sustained leading position, revenue visibility, and favorable customer value-add versus switching cost or risk) and financial return profile (including accretive growth and margins and double-digit return on invested capital). We opportunistically divest businesses where we see limited runway for future value creation relative to our aspirations, or where market and business fundamentals change and no longer suit our criteria of business attractiveness and portfolio fit. Finally, we have consistently returned cash to shareholders by paying dividends, which have increased annually over each of the last 68 years. We undertake opportunistic share repurchases as part of our capital allocation strategy. We employ a prudent financial policy to support our capital allocation strategy, which includes maintaining an investment grade credit rating. Portfolio Development Acquisitions Our acquisition program has two key elements. As a first priority, we seek to acquire attractive add-on businesses with a strong fit that enhance our existing franchises by increasing their reach and customer access, broadening their product mix or enhancing technological capabilities and customer value-add. Second, in the right circumstances, we may strategically pursue larger, stand-alone businesses that complement our existing businesses or provide a path for us to pursue growth in near adjacencies. With all our acquisitions, we seek businesses that are leaders in their markets or niches, have a strong track record for innovation, offer differentiated solutions, clearly complement our businesses, have a solid organic growth profile and attractive and sustainable returns, and offer significant synergy potential to generate double-digit return on capital within three years after the acquisition is completed. Over the past three years (2021 through 2023), we have spent approximately $2.0 billion, net of cash acquired and including contingent consideration, to purchase fourteen businesses. For more details, see Note 3 Acquisitions in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our future growth depends in large part on finding and acquiring successful businesses that expand the scope of our offerings and make us an even more important supplier to our customers. While we expect to generate annual organic revenue growth above that of gross domestic product (4% to 6% annually on average) over a long-term business cycle absent extraordinary adverse economic conditions, our success in consistently growing the portfolio is also dependent on the ability to acquire and integrate businesses within our existing structure. To track post-merger integration and accountability, we utilize an internal scorecard and well-defined processes to help ensure expected synergies are realized and value is created. Dispositions From time to time, we have sold or divested some of our businesses based on changes in specific market outlook, structural changes in financial performance, value-creation potential, or for other strategic considerations, which include an effort to reduce our exposure to cyclical markets or focus on our higher margin and higher growth spaces. Going forward, we recognize that some businesses in Dover's portfolio may have a greater value-creation potential if owned by another parent with a larger presence and focus on a given niche. We pragmatically consider such opportunities as part of our ongoing portfolio management and review processes, and execute divestitures if the value created is determined to be at an appropriate premium to the value of such business to Dover and the divestitures allow Dover shareholders to participate in the future value-creation potential from a change in ownership, including through the redeployment of divestiture proceeds into attractive add-on businesses in higher priority end-markets or through opportunistic return of capital to shareholders. 9 Table of Contents During 2021, we completed the sales of Unified Brands ("UB"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company within the Climate Sustainability Technologies segment and Race Winning Brands ("RWB"), an equity method investment within the Engineered Products segment for aggregate cash consideration of $275.0 million. During 2022 and 2023, there were no material dispositions. On October 11, 2023, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell De-Sta-Co, an operating company within the Engineered Products segment, for approximately $680.0 million enterprise value, subject to customary post-closing adjustments. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2024, subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. The aforementioned disposals did not represent strategic shifts in operations and, therefore, did not qualify for presentation as discontinued operations. For more details, see Note 4 Dispositions in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Business Segments As noted previously, Dover's five segments are structured around businesses with similar business models, go-to-market strategies and manufacturing practices and product categories which increases management efficiency and better aligns Dover's operations with its strategic initiatives and capital allocation priorities, and provides greater transparency about performance to external stakeholders. Dover's five operating and reportable segments are as follows: Engineered Products, Clean Energy Fueling, Imaging Identification, Pumps Process Solutions and Climate Su