Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Information About Our Executive Officers 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. [ R eserve d ] 27 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 109 Item 9 C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 110 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 111 Item 11. Executive Compensation 112 Item 12. Security Ownership of certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 112 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 113 Item 14 . Principal Accountant Fees and Services 113 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 114 Item 16. Form 10-K S ummary 118 SIGNATURES 119 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Dover Corporation is a diversified global manufacturer and solutions provider delivering innovative equipment and components, consumable supplies, aftermarket parts, software and digital solutions and support services through five operating segments: Engineered Products, Clean Energy Fueling, Imaging Identification, Pumps Process Solutions, and Climate Sustainability Technologies. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references herein to "Dover," "the Company," and words such as "we," "us," or "our" include Dover Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Dover was incorporated in 1947 in the State of Delaware and became a publicly traded company in 1955. Dover is headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois and currently employs approximately 25,000 people worldwide. Dover's five segments are structured around businesses with similar business models, go-to-market strategies and manufacturing practices. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns Dover s operations with its strategic initiatives and capital allocation priorities, and provides transparency about our performance to external stakeholders. We have changed the names of two of our segments (Fueling Solutions to Clean Energy Fueling, and Refrigeration Food Equipment to Climate Sustainability Technologies) to reflect recent portfolio changes, as well as to better reflect markets and customers served as well as growth drivers of respective businesses in the two segments. Dover's five operating and reportable segments are as follows: Our Engineered Products segment provides a wide range of equipment, components, software, solutions and services vehicle aftermarket, waste handling, industrial automation, aerospace and defense, industrial winch and hoist, and fluid dispensing end-markets. Our Clean Energy Fueling segment provides components, equipment, and software and service solutions enabling safe transport of traditional and clean fuels and other hazardous substances along the supply chain, as well as the safe and efficient operation of convenience retail, retail fueling and vehicle wash establishments. Our Imaging Identification segment supplies precision marking and coding, product traceability and digital textile printing equipment, as well as related consumables, software and services to the global packaged and consumer goods, pharmaceutical, industrial manufacturing, fashion and apparel and other end-markets. Our Pumps Process Solutions segment manufactures specialty pumps and flow meters, fluid connecting solutions, plastics and polymer processing equipment, and highly engineered precision components for rotating and reciprocating machines serving single-use biopharmaceutical production, diversified industrial manufacturing, polymer processing, midstream and downstream oil and gas and other end-markets. Our Climate Sustainability Technologies segment is a provider of innovative and energy-efficient equipment and systems that serve the commercial refrigeration, heating and cooling and beverage container-making equipment markets. COVID-19 For information related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents Management Philosophy Dover is committed to steadily creating shareholder value through a combination of sustained long-term profitable growth, operational excellence, superior free cash flow generation and productive capital re-deployment while adhering to a conservative financial policy. Dover seeks to be a leader in a diverse set of growing markets where customers are loyal to trusted partners and suppliers, and value product performance and differentiation driven by superior engineering, manufacturing precision, total solution development and excellent supply chain performance. Our businesses are long-time leaders in their respective markets and are known for their innovation, engineering capability and customer service excellence. We aim to continue growing our businesses from this strong foundation. Our operating structure of five business segments allows for differentiated acquisition focus consistent with our portfolio and capital allocation priorities. We believe our business segment structure, coupled with functional expertise at our lean corporate center, presents opportunities to identify and capture operating synergies, such as global sourcing and supply chain integration, shared services, and manufacturing practices, and further advances the development of our executive talent. Our executive management team sets strategic direction, initiatives and goals, provides oversight of strategy execution and achievement of these goals for our business segments, and with oversight from our Board of Directors, makes capital allocation decisions, including with respect to organic investment initiatives, major capital projects, acquisitions and the return of capital to our shareholders. Our goal is to foster an operating culture with high ethical and performance standards that values accountability, rigor, trust, inclusion, respect and open communications, designed to allow individual growth and operational effectiveness. We are also increasing our focus on maintaining sustainable business practices that reduce environmental impact, and developing products that help our customers meet their sustainability goals. Company Goals We are committed to driving superior shareholder returns through three key tenets of our corporate strategy. First , we are committed to achieving organic sales growth above that of gross domestic product (greater than GDP or 3% to 5% annually on average) over a long-term business cycle, absent prolonged adverse economic conditions, complemented by growth through strategic acquisitions. Second , we continue to focus on improving returns on capital, as well as segment and corporate earnings margin by enhancing our operational capabilities and making investments across the organization in digital capabilities, automation, operations management, information technology ("IT"), shared services (including Dover Business Services and our India Innovation Center), and talent. We also focus on continuous, effective cost management and productivity initiatives, such as automation and digitally-supported manufacturing, supply chain optimization, e-commerce and digital go-to-market, restructuring, improved footprint utilization, strategic pricing and portfolio management. Third , we aim to generate strong and growing free cash flow and earnings per share through strong earnings performance, productivity improvements and active working capital management. Dover prioritizes deploying free cash flow towards high-return and high-confidence organic reinvestments aimed at growing, improving and strengthening our businesses, as well as through inorganic investments that synergistically enhance the quality of our portfolio. Dover s value creation strategy is supported by a financial policy that includes a prudent approach to financial leverage, and a disciplined approach to capital allocation that allows for a balance between reinvestment and return of capital to shareholders through growing dividends and opportunistic share repurchases. We support achievement of these goals by (1) aligning management compensation with strategic and financial objectives, (2) actively managing our portfolio to increase enterprise scale, improve business mix over time to markets with secular growth characteristics, and pursue acquisitions that fit the characteristics of an ideal Dover business and (3) investing in talent development programs. Characteristics of a Dover Business Our businesses generally operate in strategically attractive niche industrial markets with supportive long-term growth trends, favorable supply and demand landscapes, mature and incrementally improving technologies and highly loyal customers, suppliers or channel partners. Our businesses have consistently enjoyed a customer base that chooses products primarily 5 Table of Contents based on their performance, track record, safety and compliance. In many instances, our businesses produce critical equipment or components to a larger system, where value-in-use and costs and risks of switching far exceed the cost of the product itself. Our products tend to have meaningful replacement, consumable or aftermarket demand due, in part, to a large installed base because they play a specialized role in customer applications. Recurring demand, which includes parts, consumables, services and software, represents approximately 35% of our revenue. Additionally, many of our products enjoy recurring like-for-like replacement demand patterns. Our businesses increasingly complement our component or equipment offerings with digital solutions (such as connected products, sensors and software) that create new sources of value to our customers and allow Dover businesses to drive growth and increase relevance with our customers. Dover businesses also exhibit attractive financial profiles, characterized by predictable, stable revenue, low capital intensity, strong cash-flow and sustainable returns on invested capital well in excess of our cost of capital. Business Strategy To achieve our stated goals, we are focused on executing the following pillars of Dover s business strategy: Capturing growth potential in our end-markets and adjacent market segments Dover s business segments are focused on building enduring competitive advantages and leadership positions in markets we believe are positioned for sustained future growth. We believe our businesses are among the top suppliers in most markets and niches we serve (as defined by customer applications, geographies or products), which positions us well to capture future growth. We capitalize on our engineering, technology and design expertise, and maintain an intense focus on meeting the needs of our customers and on adding significant, and often new, value to their operations through superior product performance, safety, reliability, and a commitment to aftermarket support. We cultivate and maintain an entrepreneurial culture to enable business agility, and continuously innovate to address our customers needs, to help them win in the markets they serve. In particular, our businesses are well-positioned to capitalize on: growing industrial manufacturing and trade volumes; adoption of digital technologies; increasing requirements for sustainability, safety, energy efficiency and consumer product safety; and growth of the middle class and consumption in emerging economies. Our Engineered Products segment is capitalizing on secular growth in waste generation and the increasing sophistication and automation of waste collection operations, increasing car parc, car age and miles driven, as well as increasing digitization and sensorization of modern vehicles. Our Clean Energy Fueling segment benefits from the worldwide growth in environmental safety and compliance regulations, new infrastructure build-out in emerging economies, consolidation in the convenience retail sector, increased digitization of convenience stores and fuel retailing, clean energy products, as well as secular growth in automated vehicle wash systems and solutions (over manual and do-it-yourself washing). Our Imaging Identification segment leverages its unique product offering containing equipment, consumables, software and services to address market needs and requirements, including conversion to digital textile printing, increased demand for product traceability and brand protection, and consumer product safety. Our Pumps Process Solutions segment is focused on: capturing growth in its installed base; the growing sophistication of fluid transfer and rotating machinery components within the biopharma and hygienic markets; chemical, plastics and polymer, industrial, mid and downstream oil gas; and globalizing brands across geographies while expanding sales channels and engineering support. Our Climate Sustainability Technologies segment is responding to our customers demand for increased energy efficiency and sustainability in food retail merchandising solutions, as well as increasing demand for sustainable heating and cooling solutions and growing global demand for aluminum beverage containers. We aim to capture growth by making organic investments in research and development, developing new products and technologies, improving digital capabilities, expanding our geographic coverage, and pursuing disciplined strategic acquisitions that will enhance our portfolio and position Dover for long-term growth. We continually evaluate how our assets and capabilities can position us to grow in markets adjacent to our core businesses (for example, new applications, geographies, product segments or adjacent technologies) where we can be advantaged. In addition to product innovation, we aim to capture growth by developing digital technologies. Our Boston-based Dover Digital Labs serves as the company-wide hub for our digital initiative. We have continued to invest in this facility and our team of software developers, data scientists, and product managers to enhance our digital capabilities. The Digital Labs team is driving digital transformation across our businesses in three areas: (i) enhancing the customer experience through more 6 Table of Contents efficient and streamlined digital customer interfaces that make it easy to do bus iness with Dover companies; (ii) developing connected software and machine learning augmented solutions built to int egrate into and work with our core equipment and component offerings; and (iii) driving increased efficiency, safety and quality in our manufacturing operations by employing cutting-edge automation and digital factory solutions. We believe the Digital Labs center's contributions in these areas enable us to add significant value to our products and to capture commercial growth opportunities. By leveraging a central resource for Industrial Internet of Things ("IIoT") and connected product initiatives, we are able to capture efficiencies in our digital transformation efforts, improve product security and offer better efficiency in software and sensor integration engineering to keep our projects cost-competitive. Improving profitability and return on invested capital We are committed to generating sustainable returns on invested capital well above the cost of capital across all of our businesses. We continually evaluate and pursue opportunities to improve efficiency, margin and return on capital. We are intensely foc used on driving operational excellence across our businesses. We have implemented numerous productivity initiatives to maximize our efficiency, such as supply chain integration, shared services, lean manufacturing principles and production automation, as well as workplace safety initiatives to help ensure the health and welfare of our employees. Our businesses place a strong emphasis on continual product quality improvement and new product development to better serve customers and to facilitate expansion into new products and geographic markets. We also focus on margin expansion initiatives designed to reduce our selling, general and administrative cost base and rationalize our manufacturing and supply chain footprint across the portfolio. We continually expand initiatives to extract productivity gains across the businesses and realize savings. Our margin expansion initiatives are focused on four core enterprise capabilities: (1) leverage our Digital Labs team to enhance our internal and market-facing digital capabilities, (2) improve utilization and optimization of our manufacturing footprint through centralized resources and investment, (3) further centralize shared services under Dover Business Services, and (4) invest in our India Innovation Center shared services. Dover Digital. Our Dover Digital Labs consists of a team of approximately 100 software developers, data scientists and product managers who provide digital capabilities to enhance the customer experience, develop connected products, and drive automation and efficiency inside our factories through digital technologies and in our business processes. Our Dover Digital Labs team has built common platforms which we have begun deploying on customer facing applications to make it easier to find, configure, buy and obtain products and services from Dover companies. It has also deployed shared IIoT capability such that many of Dover's products are remotely configurable and monitored, enabling our businesses to sell aftermarket parts and offer remote diagnostic services. Dover Operational Excellence . In 2019, we began to coordinate and oversee operations management from the corporate center of excellence through a team composed of functional experts in operational optimization, lean manufacturing, automation, HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) and complex project management. This team works closely with our businesses to drive execution excellence in our operational processes, standards and measurement tools to identify, prioritize and monitor execution of operational improvement initiatives. With expertise in health and safety, supply chain management, lean operations, project management, and advanced manufacturing and automation, we continue to focus on initiatives to improve operational efficiency and enhance and solidify the continuous improvement programs embedded in our businesses' day-to-day operations. Dover Business Services . We continue to invest in Dover Business Services shared service centers, consisting of a team of approximately 450 people, to provide important transactional and value-added services to our businesses. Our shared service model allows us to leverage scale across Dover, increase process efficiencies through technology and specialization, and reduce risk through centralized controls. Our shared service centers create value by freeing resources within our businesses that would otherwise be dedicated to transactional services and allowing them to focus on customers, markets and product excellence. We expect to continue driving efficiencies through Dover Business Services as we increase the level of service centralization across the portfolio. India Innovation Center. Our India Innovation Center has a team of approximately 600 engineers and IT professionals that our businesses rely on to leverage for product engineering, digital solutions development, data information management, research development, and intellectual property services. The scale of this team allows our businesses to access resources 7 Table of Contents with capabilities and expertise across many disciplines that would be unaffordable to them as stand-alone companies, and allows for concurrent engineering on time sensitive projects. We have been steadily investing in the build out and deployment of the above four enterprise capabilities in the past several years, including investing over $20 million in capital expenditures during 2019-2021, and significantly expanding the staff of experts and support personnel in key centers of excellence globally. Disciplined capital allocation and continuous portfolio enhancement We are focused on the most efficient allocation of capital to maximize returns on investment. To do this, we utilize organic reinvestment to grow and strengthen our existing businesses. We plan to make average annual investments in capital spending of 2% - 3% of revenue with a focus on internal projects designed to expand our market participation, develop new products and improve productivity. In addition, we seek to deploy capital in acquisitions in attractive growth areas across our five segments. Dover focuses primarily on bolt-on acquisitions, applying strict selection criteria of market attractiveness (including growth, market landscape, and performance-based competition), business fit (including sustained leading position, revenue visibility, and favorable customer value-add versus switching cost or risk) and financial return profile (accretive growth and margins and double-digit return on invested capital). We opportunistically divest businesses where we see limited runway for future value creation relative to our aspirations, or where market and business fundamentals change and no longer fit our criteria of business attractiveness and portfolio fit. Finally, we have consistently returned cash to shareholders by paying dividends, which have increased annually over each of the last 66 years. We undertake opportunistic share repurchases as part of our capital allocation strategy. We employ a prudent financial policy to support our capital allocation strategy, which includes maintaining an investment grade credit rating. Portfolio Development Acquisitions Our acquisition program has two key elements. As a first priority, we seek to acquire attractive add-on businesses with a strong fit that enhance our existing franchises either by increasing their reach and customer access, by broadening their product mix or by enhancing technological capability and customer value-add. Second, in the right circumstances, we may strategically pursue larger, stand-alone businesses that complement our existing businesses or provide a path for us to pursue growth in near adjacencies. With all our acquisitions, we seek businesses that are leaders in their markets or niches, have a strong track record for innovation, offer differentiated solutions, clearly complement our businesses, have a solid organic growth profile and attractive and sustainable returns, and offer significant synergy potential to generate double-digit return on capital within three years after the acquisition is completed. Over the past three years (2019 through 2021), we have spent approximately $1,677.3 million, net of cash acquired and including contingent consideration, to purchase eighteen businesses. For more details, see Note 3 Acquisitions in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our future growth depends in large part on finding and acquiring successful businesses that expand the scope of our offerings and make us an even more important supplier to our customers. While we expect to generate annual organic revenue growth (greater than GDP or 3% to 5% annually on average) over a long-term business cycle absent extraordinary adverse economic conditions, our success in consistently growing the portfolio is also dependent on the ability to acquire and integrate businesses successfully within our existing structure. To track post-merger integration and accountability, we utilize an internal scorecard and well-defined processes to help ensure expected synergies are realized and value is created. Dispositions From time to time, we have sold or divested some of our businesses based on changes in specific market outlook, structural changes in financial performance, value-creation potential, or for other strategic considerations, which included an effort to reduce our exposure to cyclical markets or focus on our higher margin growth spaces. Going forward, we recognize that some businesses in Dover s portfolio may have a greater value-creation potential if owned by another parent with a larger presence and focus on a given niche. We pragmatically consider such opportunities as part of 8 Table of Contents our ongoing portfolio management and review processes, and execute divestitures if the value created is determined to be at an appropriate premium to the value of such business to Dover and the divestitures allow Dover shareholders to participate in the future value-creation potential from a change in ownership. For more details, see Note 4 Dispositions in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Business Segments As noted previously, Dover's five segments are structured around businesses with similar business models, go-to-market strategies and manufacturing practices. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns Dover s operations with its strategic initiatives and capital allocation priorities, and provides transparency about our performance to external stakeholders. Dover's five operating and reportable segments are as follows: Engineered Products, Clean Energy Fueling, Imaging Identification, Pumps Process Solutions and Climate Sustainability Technologies. For financial information about our segments and geographic areas, see Note 19 Segment Information in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Engineered Products Our Engineered Products segment provides a wide range of equipment, components, software, solutions and services that have broad customer applications across a number of markets, including: solid waste handling, aftermarket vehicle service, industrial automation, aerospace and defense, industrial winch and hoist, and fluid dispensing. Our waste handling business is a leading North American supplier of equipment, software and services for the refuse collection industry and for on-site processing and compaction of trash and recyclable materials. Our vehicle service business provides products, software and services used primarily in vehicle repair and maintenance, including light and heavy-duty vehicle lifts, wheel service equipment, vehicle diagnostics and vehicle collision repair solutions. The businesses in the industrial automation market provide a wide range of modular automation components including manual clamps, power clamps, rotary and linear mechanical indexers, conveyors, pick and place units, glove ports and manipulators, as well as end-of-arm robotic grippers, slides and end effectors. Our industrial winch and hoist business provides a range of winches, hoists, bearings, drives, and electric monitoring systems for infrastructure and other industrial markets. The segment also supplies radio frequency and microwave filters and switches, as well as signal intelligence solutions, to enable secure communications in aerospace and defense applications, and benchtop soldering and fluid dispensing solutions in electronics and industrial product assembly. Our Engineered Products segment's products are manufactured primarily in the U.S., Europe and Asia and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors. Clean Energy Fueling Our Clean Energy Fueling segment provides components, equipment and software, and service solutions enabling safe storage, transport. handling and dispensing of clean and traditional fuels, cryogenic gases and other hazardous fluids, as well as safe and efficient operation of retail fueling and vehicle wash establishments across the globe. Among solutions supplied by the segment are dispensing equipment and components for gasoline, compressed natural gas (CNG), liquified natural gas (LNG) and hydrogen (H2) fueling sites, payment systems, hardware and underground containment systems, vehicle wash systems, as well as asset tracking, monitoring and operational optimization software. Our Clean Energy Fueling segment's products are manufactured primarily in North America, Europe, Asia, and South America and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors. 9 Table of Contents Imaging Identification The companies in our Imaging Identification segment are global suppliers of precision marking and coding, packaging intelligence, product traceability, brand protection, and digital textile printing equipment and solutions, as well as related consumables, software and services. Our marking and coding businesses primarily design and manufacture equipment and consumables used for printing variable information (such as bar codes, dates, and serial numbers) on fast-moving consumer goods, provides serialization solutions for pharmaceutical customers, and develops supply chain traceability solutions capitalizing on expanding food and product safety, supply chain traceability and brand protection requirements. In addition, our businesses serving the apparel and textile printing market develop, manufacture and sell equipment, software, consumables and service solutions used in digital textile, soft signage and specialty materials markets. These businesses are benefiting from a secular shift from analog to digital printing, resulting from growing demand for fast fashion , and more customized and complex fashion designs, as well as increasing environmental sustainability requirements (digital printing process is significantly more environment-friendly due to