Item 1. Business. 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 25 Item 1C. Cybersecurity . 25 Item 2. Properties. 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 58 Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries: Consolidated Statements of Income. 62 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 63 Consolidated Balance Sheets. 64 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 65 Consolidated Statements of Equity. 66 The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries: Consolidated Statements of Income. 67 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 68 Consolidated Balance Sheets. 69 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 70 Consolidated Statements of Equity. 71 Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries and The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 135 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 135 Item 9B. Other Information. 138 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 139 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 139 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 139 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 139 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 139 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 140 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 143 SIGNATURES 145 3 Table of Contents Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report being filed by Dow Inc. and The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ( TDCC and together with Dow Inc., Dow or the "Company"). This Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects the results of Dow and its consolidated subsidiaries. As a result of the parent/subsidiary relationship between Dow Inc. and TDCC, and considering that the financial statements and disclosures of each company are substantially similar, the companies are filing a combined report for this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information reflected in this report is equally applicable to both Dow Inc. and TDCC, except where otherwise noted. Each of Dow Inc. and TDCC is filing information in this report on its own behalf and neither company makes any representation to the information relating to the other company. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements often address expected future business and financial performance, financial condition, and other matters, and often contain words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, opportunity, outlook, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, "target," will, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on current assumptions and expectations of future events that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that are beyond Dow s control, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements and speak only as of the date the statements were made. These factors include, but are not limited to: sales of Dow s products; Dow s expenses, future revenues and profitability; any global and regional economic impacts of a pandemic or other public health-related risks and events on Dow s business; any sanctions, export restrictions, supply chain disruptions or increased economic uncertainty related to the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East; capital requirements and need for and availability of financing; unexpected barriers in the development of technology, including with respect to Dow's contemplated capital and operating projects; Dow's ability to realize its commitment to carbon neutrality on the contemplated timeframe, including the completion and success of its integrated ethylene cracker and derivatives facility in Alberta, Canada; size of the markets for Dow s products and services and ability to compete in such markets; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; the rate and degree of market acceptance of Dow s products; significant litigation and environmental matters and related contingencies and unexpected expenses; the success of competing technologies that are or may become available; the ability to protect Dow s intellectual property in the United States and abroad; developments related to contemplated restructuring activities and proposed divestitures or acquisitions such as workforce reduction, manufacturing facility and/or asset closure and related exit and disposal activities, and the benefits and costs associated with each of the foregoing; fluctuations in energy and raw material prices; management of process safety and product stewardship; changes in relationships with Dow s significant customers and suppliers; changes in public sentiment and political leadership; increased concerns about plastics in the environment and lack of a circular economy for plastics at scale; changes in consumer preferences and demand; changes in laws and regulations, political conditions or industry development; global economic and capital markets conditions, such as inflation, market uncertainty, interest and currency exchange rates, and equity and commodity prices; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war, including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East; weather events and natural disasters; disruptions in Dow s information technology networks and systems, including the impact of cyberattacks; and risks related to Dow s separation from DowDuPont Inc. such as Dow s obligation to indemnify DuPont de Nemours, Inc. and/or Corteva, Inc. for certain liabilities. Where, in any forward-looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. A detailed discussion of principal risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K titled Risk Factors. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that Dow faces. There may be other risks and uncertainties that Dow is unable to identify at this time or that Dow does not currently expect to have a material impact on its business. If any of those risks or uncertainties develops into an actual event, it could have a material adverse effect on Dow s business. Dow Inc. and TDCC assume no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by securities and other applicable laws. 4 Table of Contents Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS THE COMPANY Dow Inc. was incorporated on August 30, 2018, under Delaware law, to serve as a holding company for The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("TDCC" and together with Dow Inc., "Dow" or the "Company"). Dow Inc. operates all of its businesses through TDCC, a wholly owned subsidiary, which was incorporated in 1947 under Delaware law and is the successor to a Michigan corporation, of the same name, organized in 1897. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 2211 H.H. Dow Way, Midland, Michigan 48674. Available Information The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge at www.dow.com/investors , as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed or furnished with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains these reports as well as proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. The SEC's website is www.sec.gov . Dow's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report. Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the term "Union Carbide" means Union Carbide Corporation and the term "Dow Silicones" means Dow Silicones Corporation, both wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. ABOUT DOW Dow is one of the world s leading materials science companies, serving customers in high-growth markets such as packaging, infrastructure, mobility and consumer applications. The Company's global breadth, asset integration and scale, focused innovation, leading business positions and commitment to sustainability enables the Company to achieve profitable growth and help deliver a sustainable future. Dow operates manufacturing sites in 31 countries and employs approximately 35,900 people. In 2023, Dow delivered sales of approximately $45 billion. Learn more about Dow's ambition to be the most innovative, customer-centric, inclusive and sustainable materials science company in the world by visiting www.dow.com . BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND PRODUCTS The Company conducts its worldwide operations through six global businesses which are organized into the following operating segments: Packaging Specialty Plastics, Industrial Intermediates Infrastructure and Performance Materials Coatings. Corporate contains the reconciliation between the totals for the operating segments and the Company's totals. The Company did not aggregate any operating segments when determining its reportable segments. See Part II, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company s operating segments. PACKAGING SPECIALTY PLASTICS The Packaging Specialty Plastics operating segment consists of two highly integrated global businesses: Hydrocarbons Energy and Packaging and Specialty Plastics. The segment employs the industry s broadest polyolefin product portfolio, supported by the Company s proprietary catalyst and manufacturing process technologies. These differentiators, plus collaboration at the customer s design table, enable the segment to deliver more reliable, durable, higher-performing solutions designed for recyclability and enhanced plastics circularity and sustainability. The segment serves customers, brand owners and ultimately consumers in key markets including food and specialty packaging; industrial and consumer packaging; health and hygiene; caps, closures and pipe applications; consumer durables; mobility and transportation; and infrastructure. 5 Table of Contents The Company s unique advantages compared with its competitors include: extensive low-cost feedstock positions around the world; unparalleled scale, global footprint and market reach; world-class manufacturing sites in every geographic region; deep customer and brand owner understanding; portfolio of higher-value functional polymers, such as polyolefin elastomers, semiconductive and jacketing compound solutions and wire and cable insulation; and market-driven application development and technical support. The segment remains agile by participating in the entire ethylene-to-polyethylene chain integration, enabling the Company to manage market swings with industry-leading feedstock and derivative flexibility, and therefore optimize returns while reducing long-term earnings volatility. The Company s unrivaled value chain ownership is further strengthened by its Pack Studio locations in every geographic region, which help customers and brand owners deliver faster and more efficient packaging product commercialization through a global network of laboratories, technical experts and testing equipment. Hydrocarbons Energy Hydrocarbons Energy is a leading global producer of ethylene, a key chemical building block that the Company consumes primarily within the Packaging Specialty Plastics segment. Ethylene is transferred to downstream derivative businesses at market-based prices, which are generally equivalent to prevailing market prices for large volume purchases. In addition to ethylene, the business is a leading producer of propylene and aromatics products that are used to manufacture materials consumers use every day. The business also produces and procures the power, steam and feedstocks used by the Company s manufacturing sites. Packaging and Specialty Plastics Packaging and Specialty Plastics serves growing, high-value sectors using world-class technology, broad existing product lines, and a rich product pipeline that creates competitive advantages for the entire packaging value chain. The business is a recognized leader in the production, marketing and innovation of polyethylene. The business is also a leader in other ethylene derivatives, such as polyolefin elastomers, ethylene vinyl acetate and ethylene propylene diene monomer ("EPDM") rubber serving mobility and transportation, consumer, wire and cable and construction end-markets. Market growth is expected to be driven by major shifts in population demographics; improving socioeconomic status in emerging geographic regions; consumer and brand owner demand for increased functionality including sustainable offerings through lower-carbon and circular solutions; global efforts to reduce food waste; growth in telecommunications networks; global development of electrical transmission and distribution infrastructure; and renewable energy applications such as wind power and solar (photovoltaic). Details on Packaging Specialty Plastics' 2023 net sales, by business and geographic region, are as follows: * Europe, Middle East, Africa and India ("EMEAI") 6 Table of Contents Products Major applications/market segments and products are listed below by business: Business Applications/Market Segments Major Products Key Raw Materials Key Competitors Hydrocarbons Energy Purchaser of feedstocks; production of cost competitive hydrocarbon monomers utilized by Dow's derivative businesses; and energy, principally for use in Dow s global operations Ethylene, propylene, benzene, butadiene, octene, aromatics co-products, power, steam, other utilities Butane, condensate, ethane, naphtha, natural gas, propane Chevron Phillips Chemical, ExxonMobil, INEOS, LyondellBasell, SABIC, Shell, Sinopec Packaging and Specialty Plastics Adhesives; automotive; caps, closures and pipe applications; construction; cosmetics; electrical transmission and distribution; food and supply chain packaging; footwear; health and hygiene; housewares; industrial specialty applications using polyolefin elastomers, ethylene copolymers, and EPDM; irrigation pipe; mobility; photovoltaic encapsulants; sporting goods; telecommunications infrastructure; toys and infant products Acrylics, bio-based plasticizers, copolymer, elastomers, ethylene copolymer resins, EPDM, ethylene vinyl acetate ("EVA"), methacrylic acid copolymer resins, polyethylene ("PE"), high-density polyethylene ("HDPE"), low-density polyethylene ("LDPE"), linear low-density polyethylene ("LLDPE"), polyolefin plastomers, resin additives and modifiers, semiconductive and jacketing compound solutions and wire and cable insulation Aliphatic solvent, butene, ethylene, hexene, octene, propylene Borealis, ExxonMobil, INEOS, Lanxess, LyondellBasell, Nova, SABIC Joint Ventures : This segment includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of the following joint ventures: EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C.C. ( EQUATE ) - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene, polyethylene and ethylene glycol, and manufactures and markets monoethylene glycol, diethylene glycol and polyethylene terephthalate resins; owned 42.5 percent by the Company. The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C.C. ( TKOC ) - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene and ethylene glycol; owned 42.5 percent by the Company. Map Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited ( Map Ta Phut ) - a Thailand-based company that manufactures propylene and ethylene; the Company has an effective ownership of 32.77 percent (of which 20.27 percent is owned directly by the Company and aligned with the Industrial Intermediates Infrastructure segment and 12.5 percent is owned indirectly through the Company s equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited, an entity that is part of The SCGC-Dow Group and aligned with the Packaging Specialty Plastics segment). Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") - a Saudi Arabian company that manufactures chlorine, ethylene, propylene and aromatics for internal consumption and manufactures and sells polyethylene, ethylene oxide and propylene oxide derivative products, and isocyanates; owned 35 percent by the Company. The Company is responsible for marketing a majority of Sadara products outside of the Middle East zone through the Company s established sales channels. As part of this arrangement, the Company purchases and sells Sadara products for a marketing fee. In 2021, Dow and the Saudi Arabian Oil Company agreed to and began transitioning the marketing rights and responsibilities for Sadara s finished products to levels more consistent with each partner s equity ownership, which is being implemented through 2026. This transition will not impact equity earnings but is expected to reduce the Company's sales of Sadara products over the five year period. This segment also includes the Company's share of the results of the following joint ventures: The Kuwait Styrene Company K.S.C.C. - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures styrene monomer; owned 42.5 percent by the Company. The SCGC-Dow Group - a group of Thailand-based companies (consisting of Siam Polyethylene Company Limited; Siam Polystyrene Company Limited; Siam Styrene Monomer Company Limited; and Siam Synthetic Latex Company Limited) that manufactures polyethylene, polystyrene, styrene, latex and specialty elastomers; owned 50 percent by the Company. 7 Table of Contents Current and Future Investments The Company has announced investments that are being progressed over the next several years and are expected to enhance competitiveness. These include: Construction of the world's first net-zero Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 equivalent ("CO 2 e") emissions integrated ethylene and derivatives complex in Alberta, Canada. This project is expected to deliver 2 million metric tons of organic growth in attractive, high-end markets while decarbonizing 20% of Dow's global ethylene capacity. Construction of a world-scale polyethylene unit on the U.S. Gulf Coast based on Dow s proprietary process technologies, to meet consumer-driven demand in specialty packaging, health and hygiene, and industrial and consumer packaging applications. Ongoing collaboration with Mura Technology ( Mura ) to help solve the global plastics waste issue and advance circularity via circular feedstocks, which are converted into recycled plastics. Mura plans to construct a new facility at Dow's B hlen site in Germany, the latest in a series of planned facilities across the United States and Europe to rapidly scale advanced recycling of plastics, and the first expected to be based at a Dow site. Plans to construct a clean hydrogen plant in Europe where by-products from core production processes would be converted into hydrogen and CO 2 . The hydrogen plant would allow Dow's Terneuzen manufacturing site to reduce CO 2 e emissions by approximately 1.4 million metric tons per year. Project completion and deployment is expected to occur after 2030. The Company's ambition includes becoming the most sustainable materials science company, with a strategy to advance the well-being of humanity by helping lead the transition to a sustainable planet and society. This includes lowering energy and greenhouse gas emissions and further enabling a shift to a circular economy for plastics by focusing on resource efficiency and integrating recycled content and renewable feedstocks into its production processes. As part of that strategy, Dow announced the following investments that have been completed or are still being progressed in 2023: In 2022, Dow commissioned the retrofit of its first UNIFINITY TM Fluidized Catalytic Dehydrogenation ("FCDh") technology for cost-advantaged propylene and in 2023 has been optimizing operations of this new technology. The FCDh unit, located at one of Dow's mixed-feed crackers in Plaquemine, Louisiana, will ultimately enable production of approximately 150,000 metric tons of additional on-purpose propylene at full run-rate. The breakthrough propylene manufacturing technology, which Dow will license through Univation Technologies, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, can reduce capital outlay by up to 25 percent while lowering energy usage and CO 2 e emissions by up to 20 percent. This project was originally announced in 2019. Dow previously signed an agreement with French recycling company Valoregen to contribute to building the largest single hybrid recycling site in France, to be owned and operated by Valoregen. The project's 15,000 metric ton mechanical recycling line reached mechanical completion in the fourth quarter of 2023 and the advanced recycling line is expected to start-up in the first half of 2024. This will mark an important step in bringing together mechanical recycling (which processes certain plastic waste into secondary products) and newer, advanced recycling processes (which breaks down mixed, hard-to-recycle plastics into their original naphtha-like liquid form to manufacture new virgin-like polymers). Dow will be the main recipient of Valoregen s post-consumer resins ("PCR"), which it will use to develop new plastic products marketed under Dow s REVOLOOP product range. It will also support the development of Valoregen's recycling technology capabilities. The first Mura plant in the UK commenced commissioning of its 20,000 metric tons advanced recycling facility in the fourth quarter of 2023 and plans to produce feedstocks in the first half of 2024. Dow will be the main recipient of the product produced at this site. Dow announced a joint development agreement with X-energy, a nuclear energy innovation company which will help Dow advance its greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals through the development and deployment of X-energy's advanced small modular nuclear technology at an industrial site in North America. In 2023, Dow selected its Seadrift Operations manufacturing site in Texas for its proposed advanced small modular reactor ("SMR") nuclear project. The project will be focused on providing the Seadrift site with safe, reliable, zero emissions power and steam as existing energy and steam assets near their end-of-life. Continued collaboration with Hanseatic Energy Hub GmbH ("HEH") as a minority stakeholder and is working with HEH's current members to advance Germany's capabilities to import supplies of liquified natural gas, bio-liquified natural gas and synthetic natural gas through the construction of an import terminal. The HEH consortium is planning to build, own, and operate an import terminal for liquified gases on Dow's Stade, Germany industrial park. The zero emission terminal will be co-located with Dow's facilities in Stade. Dow is 8 Table of Contents making land available for the construction of the terminal as well as infrastructure services, off-gas heat, site services and mutual harbor use rights. Dow and privately-held New Energy Blue have reached a long-term supply agreement to produce bio-based ethylene from renewable agricultural residues. This is the first agreement in North America to generate plastic sourced materials from corn stover (stalks and leaves), and is the Company's first agreement in North America to utilize agriculture residues for plastic production. Under the terms of the deal, Dow will support the design of New Energy Freedom, a new facility in Iowa that is expected to process corn stover and produce commercial quantities of second-generation ethanol and clean lignin, with nearly half of the ethanol to be turned into bio-based ethylene feedstock reducing CO 2 e emissions from plastic production, and using it in recyclable applications across transportation, footwear, and packaging. Dow and Reciclar S.A. joined forces to build an efficient model for plastic recycling in Argentina that will produce more than 6,500 tons of post-consumer plastic resin. This collaboration agreement with Reciclar S.A. will last three years and aims to improve the capacity of Reciclar S.A. to process waste on a larger scale and produce high-quality post-consumer plastic materials under the REVOLOOP TM brand. Dow has signed several renewable and cleaner power agreements which are expected to reduce Scope 2 emissions by more than 600,000 metric tons of CO 2 e per year. INDUSTRIAL INTERMEDIATES INFRASTRUCTURE The Industrial Intermediates Infrastructure operating segment consists of two customer-centric global businesses - Industrial Solutions and Polyurethanes Construction Chemicals - that develop important intermediate chemicals that are essential to manufacturing processes, as well as downstream, customized materials and formulations that use advanced development technologies. These businesses primarily produce and market ethylene oxide and propylene oxide derivatives that are aligned to market segments as diverse as appliances, coatings, furniture and bedding, construction, mobility and automotive, electronics, surfactants for cleaning and sanitization, infrastructure and oil and gas. The businesses' global scale and reach, world-class technology, research and development capabilities and materials science expertise enable the Company to be a premier solutions provider offering customers value-added sustainable solutions to enhance comfort, energy efficiency, product effectiveness and durability. Industrial Solutions Industrial Solutions provides a broad portfolio of solutions that enable and improve the manufacture of consumer and industrial goods and services. The business solutions minimize friction and heat in mechanical processes; manage the oil and water interface; deliver ingredients for maximum effectiveness; facilitate dissolvability; enable product identification; decarbonize oil and gas products; reduce energy and water use in textiles; and provide the foundational building blocks for the development of chemical technologies. The business supports manufacturers across a large variety of end-markets, notably coatings, detergents and cleaners, crop protection, pharmaceuticals, electronics, oil and gas, inks and textiles. The business is a leading producer of purified ethylene oxide, ethyleneamines and ethanolamines. Polyurethanes Construction Chemicals Polyurethanes Construction Chemicals consists of three businesses: Polyurethanes, Chlor-Alkali Vinyl ( CAV ) and Construction Chemicals. The Polyurethanes business is the world s largest producer of propylene oxide, propylene glycol and polyether polyols, and a leading producer of aromatic isocyanates and fully formulated polyurethane systems for rigid, semi-rigid and flexible foams, as well as coatings, adhesives, sealants, elastomers and composites that serve energy efficiency, consumer comfort, industrial and enhanced mobility market sectors. The CAV business provides chlorine and caustic soda supply and markets caustic soda, a valuable co-product of the chlor-alkali manufacturing process, and ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride monomer. The CAV business' assets are predominantly in Western Europe and Latin America and largely produce materials for internal consumption. The Construction Chemicals business provides cellulose ethers, redispersible latex powders, and acrylic emulsions used as key building blocks for differentiated building and construction materials across many market segments and applications ranging from roofing and flooring to gypsum-, cement-, concrete- and dispersion-based building materials. Both Polyurethanes and Construction Chemicals deliver sustainable products aligned toward green building markets yielding reduced environmental impacts and lower product intensity compared to traditional offerings. 9 Table of Contents Details on Industrial Intermediates Infrastructures' 2023 net sales, by business and geographic region, are as follows: Products Major applications/market segments and products are listed below by business: Business Applications/Market Segments Major Products Key Raw Materials Key Competitors Industrial Solutions Broad range of products for specialty applications, including pharmaceuticals, agriculture crop protection offerings, aircraft deicing, solvents for coatings, heat transfer fluids for concentrated solar power, construction, solvents for electronics processing, food preservation, fuel markers, industrial and institutional cleaning, infrastructure applications, lubricant additives, paper, transportation and utilities; products for energy markets inclu