Item 1. Business. 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 25 Item 2. Properties. 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 68 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 69 Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries: Consolidated Statements of Income. 73 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 74 Consolidated Balance Sheets. 75 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 76 Consolidated Statements of Equity. 77 The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries: Consolidated Statements of Income. 78 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 79 Consolidated Balance Sheets. 80 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 81 Consolidated Statements of Equity. 82 Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries and The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries: Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 157 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 157 Item 9B. Other Information. 160 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 161 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 161 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 161 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 161 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 162 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 163 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 166 SIGNATURES 168 3 Table of Contents Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report being filed by Dow Inc. and The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ( TDCC and together with Dow Inc., Dow or the "Company"). This Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects the results of Dow and its consolidated subsidiaries, after giving effect to the distribution to DowDuPont Inc. ( DowDuPont and effective June 3, 2019, n/k/a DuPont de Nemours, Inc. or "DuPont") of TDCC s agricultural sciences business ( AgCo ) and specialty products business ( SpecCo ) and the receipt of E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and its consolidated subsidiaries' ( Historical DuPont ) ethylene and ethylene copolymers business (other than its ethylene acrylic elastomers business) ("ECP"). The U.S. GAAP consolidated financial results of Dow Inc. and TDCC reflect the distribution of AgCo and SpecCo as discontinued operations for the applicable periods presented as well as the receipt of ECP as a common control transaction from the closing of the merger with Historical DuPont on August 31, 2017. As a result of the parent/subsidiary relationship between Dow Inc. and TDCC, and considering that the financial statements and disclosures of each company are substantially similar, the companies are filing a combined report for this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information reflected in this report is equally applicable to both Dow Inc. and TDCC, except where otherwise noted. Each of Dow Inc. and TDCC is filing information in this report on its own behalf and neither company makes any representation to the information relating to the other company. Background On April 1, 2019, DowDuPont completed the separation of its materials science business and Dow Inc. became the direct parent company of TDCC and its consolidated subsidiaries, owning all of the outstanding common shares of TDCC. For filings relating to the period commencing April 1, 2019 and thereafter, TDCC was deemed the predecessor to Dow Inc., and the historical results of TDCC are deemed the historical results of Dow Inc. for periods prior to and including March 31, 2019. The separation was contemplated by the merger of equals transaction effective August 31, 2017, under the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017. TDCC and Historical DuPont each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont and, as a result, TDCC and Historical DuPont became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the Merger ). Subsequent to the Merger, TDCC and Historical DuPont engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. Dow Inc. was formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of DowDuPont to serve as the holding company for the materials science business. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements often address expected future business and financial performance, financial condition, and other matters, and often contain words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, may, opportunity, outlook, plan, project, seek, should, strategy, "target," will, will be, will continue, will likely result, would and similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are based on current assumptions and expectations of future events that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that are beyond Dow s control, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements and speak only as of the date the statements were made. These factors include, but are not limited to: sales of Dow s products; Dow s expenses, future revenues and profitability; the continuing global and regional economic impacts of the coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) pandemic and other public health-related risks and events on Dow s business; capital requirements and need for and availability of financing; unexpected barriers in the development of technology, including with respect to Dow's contemplated capital and operating projects; Dow's ability to realize its commitment to carbon neutrality on the contemplated timeframe; size of the markets for Dow s products and services and ability to compete in such markets; failure to develop and market new products and optimally manage product life cycles; the rate and degree of market acceptance of Dow s products; significant litigation and environmental matters and related contingencies and unexpected expenses; the success of competing technologies that are or may become available; the ability to protect Dow s intellectual property in the United States and abroad; developments related to contemplated restructuring activities and proposed divestitures or acquisitions such as workforce reduction, manufacturing facility and/or asset closure and related exit and disposal activities, and the benefits and costs associated with each of the foregoing; fluctuations in energy and raw material prices; management of process 4 Table of Contents safety and product stewardship; changes in relationships with Dow s significant customers and suppliers; changes in consumer preferences and demand; changes in laws and regulations, political conditions or industry development; global economic and capital markets conditions, such as inflation, market uncertainty, interest and currency exchange rates, and equity and commodity prices; business or supply disruptions; security threats, such as acts of sabotage, terrorism or war; weather events and natural disasters; and disruptions in Dow s information technology networks and systems. Risks related to Dow's separation from DowDuPont include, but are not limited to: (i) Dow's failure to achieve in full the anticipated benefits from the separation from DowDuPont; (ii) certain tax risks associated with the separation; (iii) the failure of Dow's pro forma financial information to be a reliable indicator of Dow's future results; (iv) receipt of less favorable terms in the commercial agreements Dow entered into with DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ("DuPont") and Corteva, Inc. ( Corteva ), including restrictions under intellectual property cross-license agreements, than Dow would have received from an unaffiliated third party; and (v) Dow's obligation to indemnify DuPont and/or Corteva for certain liabilities. Where, in any forward-looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. A detailed discussion of principal risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K titled Risk Factors. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that Dow faces. There may be other risks and uncertainties that Dow is unable to identify at this time or that Dow does not currently expect to have a material impact on its business. If any of those risks or uncertainties develops into an actual event, it could have a material adverse effect on Dow s business. Dow Inc. and TDCC assume no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by securities and other applicable laws. 5 Table of Contents Dow Inc. and Subsidiaries The Dow Chemical Company and Subsidiaries PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS THE COMPANY Dow Inc. was incorporated on August 30, 2018, under Delaware law, to serve as a holding company for The Dow Chemical Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("TDCC" and together with Dow Inc., "Dow" or the "Company"). Dow Inc. operates all of its businesses through TDCC, a wholly owned subsidiary, which was incorporated in 1947 under Delaware law and is the successor to a Michigan corporation, of the same name, organized in 1897. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 2211 H.H. Dow Way, Midland, Michigan 48674. Available Information The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge at www.dow.com/investors , as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed or furnished with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains these reports as well as proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. The SEC's website is www.sec.gov . Dow's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report. MERGER AND SEPARATION On April 1, 2019, DowDuPont Inc. ( DowDuPont and effective June 3, 2019, n/k/a DuPont de Nemours, Inc. or "DuPont") completed the separation of its materials science business and Dow Inc. became the direct parent company of TDCC and its consolidated subsidiaries, owning all of the outstanding common shares of TDCC. The separation was contemplated by the merger of equals transaction effective August 31, 2017, under the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 11, 2015, as amended on March 31, 2017 (the "Merger Agreement"). TDCC and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ( Historical DuPont ) each merged with subsidiaries of DowDuPont and, as a result, TDCC and Historical DuPont became subsidiaries of DowDuPont (the Merger ). Subsequent to the Merger, TDCC and Historical DuPont engaged in a series of internal reorganization and realignment steps to realign their businesses into three subgroups: agriculture, materials science and specialty products. Dow Inc. was formed as a wholly owned subsidiary of DowDuPont to serve as the holding company for the materials science business. The consolidated financial results of Dow for periods prior to April 1, 2019, reflect the distribution of TDCC s agricultural sciences business ( AgCo ) and specialty products business ( SpecCo ) as discontinued operations for the applicable periods presented as well as reflect the receipt of Historical DuPont s ethylene and ethylene copolymers businesses (other than its ethylene acrylic elastomers business) ( ECP ) as a common control transaction from the closing of the Merger on August 31, 2017. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Dow Inc.'s Amendment No. 4 to the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on March 8, 2019, for additional information. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated, amounts and activity are presented on a continuing operations basis. ABOUT DOW Dow combines global breadth; asset integration and scale; focused innovation and materials science expertise; leading business positions; and environmental, social and governance (ESG) leadership to achieve profitable growth and deliver a sustainable future. The Company s ambition is to become the most innovative, customer centric, inclusive and sustainable materials science company in the world. Dow s portfolio of plastics, industrial intermediates, coatings and silicones businesses delivers a broad range of differentiated, science-based products and solutions for its customers in high-growth market segments, such as packaging, infrastructure, mobility and consumer applications. Dow operates 104 manufacturing sites in 31 countries and employs approximately 35,700 people. 6 Table of Contents BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND PRODUCTS The Company conducts its worldwide operations through six global businesses which are organized into the following operating segments: Packaging Specialty Plastics, Industrial Intermediates Infrastructure and Performance Materials Coatings. Corporate contains the reconciliation between the totals for the operating segments and the Company's totals. The Company did not aggregate any operating segments when determining its reportable segments. See Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company s operating segments, PACKAGING SPECIALTY PLASTICS The Packaging Specialty Plastics operating segment consists of two highly integrated global businesses: Hydrocarbons Energy and Packaging and Specialty Plastics. The segment employs the industry s broadest polyolefin product portfolio, supported by the Company s proprietary catalyst and manufacturing process technologies. These differentiators, plus collaboration at the customer s design table, enable the segment to deliver more reliable, durable, higher-performing solutions designed for recyclability and enhanced plastics circularity and sustainability. The segment serves customers, brand owners and ultimately consumers in key markets including food and specialty packaging; industrial and consumer packaging; health and hygiene; caps, closures and pipe applications; consumer durables; mobility and transportation; and infrastructure. The Company s unique advantages compared with its competitors include: extensive low-cost feedstock positions around the world; unparalleled scale, global footprint and market reach; world-class manufacturing sites in every geographic region; deep customer and brand owner understanding; portfolio of higher-value functional polymers, such as polyolefin elastomers, semiconductive and jacketing compound solutions and wire and cable insulation; and market-driven application development and technical support. The segment remains agile by participating in the entire ethylene-to-polyethylene chain integration, enabling the Company to manage market swings with industry-leading feedstock and derivative flexibility, and therefore optimize returns while reducing long-term earnings volatility. The Company s unrivaled value chain ownership is further strengthened by its Pack Studio locations in every geographic region, which help customers and brand owners deliver faster and more efficient packaging product commercialization through a global network of laboratories, technical experts and testing equipment. Hydrocarbons Energy Hydrocarbons Energy is a leading global producer of ethylene, a key chemical building block that the Company consumes primarily within the Packaging Specialty Plastics segment. Ethylene is transferred to downstream derivative businesses at market-based prices, which are generally equivalent to prevailing market prices for large volume purchases. In addition to ethylene, the business is a leading producer of propylene and aromatics products that are used to manufacture materials consumers use every day. The business also produces and procures the power and feedstocks used by the Company s manufacturing sites. Packaging and Specialty Plastics Packaging and Specialty Plastics serves growing, high-value sectors using world-class technology, broad existing product lines, and a rich product pipeline that creates competitive advantages for the entire packaging value chain. The business is a recognized leader in the production, marketing and innovation of polyethylene. The business is also a leader in other ethylene derivatives, such as polyolefin elastomers, ethylene vinyl acetate and ethylene propylene diene monomer ("EPDM") rubber serving mobility and transportation, consumer, wire and cable and construction end-markets. Market growth is expected to be driven by major shifts in population demographics; improving socioeconomic status in emerging geographic regions; consumer and brand owner demand for increased functionality including sustainable offerings through lower-carbon and circular solutions; global efforts to reduce food waste; growth in telecommunications networks; global development of electrical transmission and distribution infrastructure; and renewable energy applications such as wind power and solar (photovoltaic). 7 Table of Contents Details on Packaging Specialty Plastics' 2021 net sales, by business and geographic region, are as follows: * Europe, Middle East, Africa and India ("EMEAI") Products Major applications/market segments and products are listed below by business: Business Applications/Market Segments Major Products Key Raw Materials Key Competitors Hydrocarbons Energy Purchaser of feedstocks; production of cost competitive hydrocarbon monomers utilized by Dow's derivative businesses; and energy, principally for use in Dow s global operations Ethylene, propylene, benzene, butadiene, octene, aromatics co-products, power, steam, other utilities Butane, condensate, ethane, naphtha, natural gas, propane Chevron Phillips Chemical, ExxonMobil, INEOS, LyondellBasell, SABIC, Shell, Sinopec Packaging and Specialty Plastics Adhesives; automotive; caps, closures and pipe applications; construction; cosmetics; electrical transmission and distribution; food and supply chain packaging; footwear; health and hygiene; housewares; industrial specialty applications using polyolefin elastomers, ethylene copolymers, and EPDM; irrigation pipe; mobility; photovoltaic encapsulants; sporting goods; telecommunications infrastructure; toys and infant products Acrylics, bio-based plasticizers, copolymer, elastomers, ethylene copolymer resins, EPDM, ethylene vinyl acetate ("EVA"), methacrylic acid copolymer resins, polyethylene ("PE"), high-density polyethylene ("HDPE"), low-density polyethylene ("LDPE"), linear low-density polyethylene ("LLDPE"), polyolefin plastomers, resin additives and modifiers, semiconductive and jacketing compound solutions and wire and cable insulation Aliphatic solvent, butene, ethylene, hexene, octene, propylene Borealis, ExxonMobil, INEOS, Lanxess, LyondellBasell, Nova, SABIC Joint Ventures : This segment includes a portion of the Company's share of the results of the following joint ventures: EQUATE Petrochemical Company K.S.C.C. ( EQUATE ) - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene, polyethylene and ethylene glycol, and manufactures and markets monoethylene glycol, diethylene glycol and polyethylene terephthalate resins; owned 42.5 percent by the Company. The Kuwait Olefins Company K.S.C.C. ( TKOC ) - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures ethylene and ethylene glycol; owned 42.5 percent by the Company. Map Ta Phut Olefins Company Limited ( Map Ta Phut ) - a Thailand-based company that manufactures propylene and ethylene; the Company has an effective ownership of 32.77 percent (of which 20.27 percent is owned directly by the Company and aligned with the Industrial Intermediates Infrastructure segment and 12.5 percent is owned indirectly through the Company s equity interest in Siam Polyethylene Company Limited, an entity that is part of The SCG-Dow Group and aligned with the Packaging Specialty Plastics segment). Sadara Chemical Company ("Sadara") - a Saudi Arabian company that manufactures chlorine, ethylene, propylene and aromatics for internal consumption and manufactures and sells polyethylene, ethylene oxide and propylene oxide derivative products, and isocyanates; owned 35 percent by the Company. The Company is responsible for marketing a majority of Sadara products outside of the Middle East zone through the Company s established sales channels. As part of this arrangement, the Company purchases and sells Sadara products for a marketing fee. 8 Table of Contents This segment also includes the Company's share of the results of the following joint ventures: The Kuwait Styrene Company K.S.C.C. - a Kuwait-based company that manufactures styrene monomer; owned 42.5 percent by the Company. The SCG-Dow Group - a group of Thailand-based companies (consisting of Siam Polyethylene Company Limited; Siam Polystyrene Company Limited; Siam Styrene Monomer Company Limited; and Siam Synthetic Latex Company Limited) that manufactures polyethylene, polystyrene, styrene, latex and specialty elastomers; owned 50 percent by the Company. Current and Future Investments In 2021, the Company completed the addition of a furnace to its ethylene production facility in Alberta, Canada, incrementally expanding capacity by approximately 130,000 metric tons. Dow co-invested in the expansion with a regional customer, evenly sharing project costs and ethylene output, with the additional ethylene to be consumed by existing polyethylene manufacturing assets in the region. Also, the Company completed a new catalyst production facility for key catalysts licensed by Univation Technologies, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Additionally, the Company has announced investments over the next several years that are expected to enhance competitiveness. These include: Incremental debottleneck projects across its global asset network that will deliver approximately 350 kilotonnes per annum of additional polyethylene, the majority of which will be in the U.S. Canada. Construction of a world-scale polyethylene unit on the U.S. Gulf Coast based on Dow s proprietary process technologies, to meet consumer-driven demand in specialty packaging, health and hygiene, and industrial and consumer packaging applications. Construction of the world's first net-zero carbon emissions (with respect to Scope 1 and 2 carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions, including technology advancements) ethylene and derivatives complex in Alberta, Canada. The Company's ambition includes becoming the most sustainable materials science company, with a strategy to advance the well-being of humanity by helping lead the transition to a sustainable planet and society. This includes lowering energy and greenhouse gas emissions and further enabling a shift to a circular economy for plastics by focusing on resource efficiency and integrating recycled content and renewable feedstocks into its production processes. As part of that strategy, Dow announced the following in 2021: Plans to construct the world's first net-zero carbon emissions (with respect to Scope 1 and 2 carbon dioxide emissions, including technology advancements) ethylene facility and convert the assets at its Fort Saskatchewan site in Alberta, Canada, to create the first net-zero carbon emissions complex with respect to Scope 1 and 2 carbon dioxide emissions. The project would more than triple Dow's ethylene and polyethylene capacity from its Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta site, while retrofitting the site's existing assets to net-zero carbon emissions. Dow and Fuenix Ecogy Group expanded upon the companies' initial agreement to scale circular plastics production through advanced recycling with the construction of a second plant in Weert, The Netherlands. The new plant will process 20,000 tonnes of plastic waste into pyrolysis oil feedstocks, which will be used to produce new circular plastic at Dow's Terneuzen site in The Netherlands. A partnership with Mura Technology ("Mura") to rapid-scale new advanced recycling solutions. The collaboration will produce circular feedstocks, which are converted into recycled plastics. Mura s global rollout targets 1 million metric tonnes of recycling capacity by 2025. Dow will be the major off-taker of pyrolysis oil feedstocks made from Mura s first-of-its-kind plant in Teesside, United Kingdom. Finalization of an agreement with Gunvor Petroleum Rotterdam ("Gunvor") to purify pyrolysis oil feedstocks derived from plastic waste. Gunvor began supplying cracker-ready feedstocks to Dow in 2021, which will be used to produce circular plastics for customers. Fast-tracking the design, engineering and construction of a market development scale purification unit in Terneuzen, The Netherlands, to provide additional capacity to purify pyrolysis oil feedstocks derived from plastic waste. Establishment of a multi-year agreement with New Hope Energy, based in Tyler, Texas, to supply the Company with pyrolysis oil feedstocks derived from plastics recycled in North America. New Hope Energy converts used plastics into pyrolysis oil feedstocks, which Dow will use to produce circular plastics. 9 Table of Contents Dow signed new renewable and cleaner power agreements which are expected to reduce Scope 2 emissions by more than 600,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. Plans to construct a clean hydrogen plant where by-products from core production processes would be converted into hydrogen and carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide would be captured and stored until alternative technologies develop. Dow will also look for ways to enable usage of the carbon dioxide in its processes rather than storing it. The hydrogen plant is expected to startup in 2026 and would allow Dow's Terneuzen manufacturing site to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 1.4 million tons per year. In addition, in 2019, the Company announced the retrofit of one of its Louisiana steam crackers with Dow s proprietary fluidized catalytic dehydrogenation ("FCDh") technology to produce on-purpose propylene. The FCDh technology retrofit further improves Dow s ability to continue to source the most advantaged feedstocks, while also producing reliable and cost-efficient on-purpose propylene to supply its integrated derivative units in Louisiana. Dow's FCDh technology reduces capital outlay by up to 40 percent and lowers energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions by up to 20 percent, thereby improving overall sustainability when compared with conventional propane dehydrogenation technologies. The project is expected to begin producing on-purpose propylene in the second half of 2022. INDUSTRIAL INTERMEDIATES INFRASTRUCTURE The Industrial Intermediates Infrastructure operating segment consists of two customer-centric global businesses - Industrial Solutions and Polyurethanes Construction Chemicals - that develop important intermediate chemicals that are essential to manufacturing processes, as well as downstream, customized materials and formulations that use advanced development technologies. These businesses primarily produce and market ethylene oxide and propylene oxide derivatives that are aligned to market segments as diverse as appliances, coatings, electronics, surfactants for cleaning and sanitization, infrastructure and oil and gas. The businesses' global scale and reach, world-class technology, research and development capabilities and materials science expertise enable the Company to be a premier solutions provider offering customers value-add sustainable solutions to enhance comfort, energy efficiency, product effectiveness and durability across a wide range of home comfort and appliance, building and construction, mobility and transportation, adhesive and lubricant applications, among others. Industrial Solutions Industrial Solutions provides a broad portfolio of solutions that enable and improve the manufacture of consumer and industrial goods and services. The business solutions minimize friction and heat in mechanical processes; manage the oil and water interface; deliver ingredients for maximum effectiveness; facilitate dissolvability; enable product identification; decarbonize oil and gas products; reduce energy and water use in textiles; and provide the foundational building blocks for the development of chemical technologies. The business supports manufacturers across a large variety of end-markets, notably coatings, detergents and cleaners, crop protection, pharmaceuticals, electronics, oil and gas, inks and textiles. The business is a leading producer of purified ethylene oxide, ethylene amines and ethanol amines. Polyurethanes Construction Chemicals 