Item 1. Business. 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 29 Item 1C. Cybersecurity. 29 Item 2. Properties. 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 31 Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant . 31 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 32 Item 6. [Reserved]. 33 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 83 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 83 Item 9B. Other Information. 84 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 84 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 85 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 86 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 86 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 86 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 86 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 87 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 98 SIGNATURES 99 Throughout this document, Domino s Pizza, Inc. (NYSE: DPZ) is referred to as the Company, Domino s, Domino s Pizza or in the first-person notations of we, us and our. In this document, we rely on and refer to information regarding the U.S. quick service restaurant, or QSR, sector and the U.S. QSR pizza category from CREST , ongoing foodservice market research (years ending December) prepared by Circana, formerly The NPD Group, as well as market research reports, analyst reports and other publicly-available information. Although we believe this information to be reliable, we have not independently verified it. U.S. sales information relating to the U.S. QSR sector and the U.S. QSR pizza category represent reported consumer spending obtained by Circana s CREST ongoing foodservice market research from consumer surveys. This information relates to both our Company-owned and franchised stores. 3 Part I Item 1. Business. Overview Domino s is the largest pizza company in the world with more than 20,500 locations in over 90 markets around the world as of December 31, 2023, and operates two distinct service models within its stores, with a significant business in both delivery and carryout. We are a highly recognized global brand, and we focus on value while serving neighborhoods locally through our large worldwide network of franchise owners and U.S. Company-owned stores through both the delivery and carryout service models. We have been selling quality, affordable food to our customers since 1960. We became Domino s Pizza in 1965 and opened our first franchised store in 1967. Over more than 60 years, we have built Domino s into one of the most widely-recognized consumer brands in the world. We believe our commitment to value, convenience, quality and new products continues to keep consumers engaged with the brand. We are primarily a franchisor, with approximately 99% of Domino s global stores owned and operated by our independent franchisees as of December 31, 2023. Franchising enables an individual to be a business owner and maintain control over all employment-related matters and pricing decisions, while also benefiting from the strength of the Domino s global brand and operating system with limited capital investment by us. Domino s business model is straightforward: Domino s stores handcraft and serve quality food at a competitive price, with easy ordering access and efficient service, enhanced by our technological innovations. Our hand-tossed dough is made fresh and distributed to stores around the world by us and our franchisees. Domino s generates revenues and earnings by charging royalties and fees to our franchisees. Royalties are ongoing percent-of-sales fees for use of the Domino s brand marks. We also generate revenues and earnings by selling food, equipment and supplies to franchisees through our supply chain operations primarily in the U.S. and Canada and by operating a number of Company-owned stores in the United States. Franchisees profit by selling pizza and other complementary items to their local customers. In our international markets, we generally grant geographical rights to the Domino s Pizza brand to master franchisees. These master franchisees are charged with developing their geographical area, and they may profit by sub-franchising and selling food and equipment to those sub-franchisees, as well as by running pizza stores. We believe that everyone in the system can benefit from the franchise model, including the end consumer, who can purchase Domino s menu items for themselves and their family conveniently and economically. Domino s business model can yield strong returns for our franchise owners and our Company-owned stores. It can also yield significant cash flows to us, through a consistent franchise royalty payment and supply chain revenue stream, with moderate capital expenditures. We have historically returned cash to shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases. At Domino s, we believe we have a proven business model for success that has historically driven strong returns for our shareholders. We recently announced our Hungry for MORE strategy aimed at generating MORE sales, MORE stores and MORE profits. The strategic imperatives of our Hungry for MORE strategy are as follows: Most Delicious Food: We believe we have the best pizza in the industry, and our menu has even more mouthwatering options beyond pizza, including Domino s Loaded Tots, stuffed cheesy breads, wings, boneless chicken, pastas, oven-baked sandwiches, dips, soft drink products and desserts. We will continue to showcase the breadth of our menu, while highlighting the deliciousness of our food through our innovative marketing promotions. Operational Excellence: We are relentless in our focus on convenience, consistency and efficiency for both our and our franchisees customers. Renowned Value: We are committed to continuing to offer competitive pricing and personalized value for our customers. Enhanced by Best-in-Class Franchisees: Our franchisees play a vital role in driving results and excitement across the more than 90 markets in which we operate. 4 Our Industry The U.S. QSR pizza category is large and fragmented. From 2018 through 2023, the U.S. QSR pizza category has grown from $37.5 billion to $41.3 billion. It is the second-largest category, by sales, within the $349.9 billion U.S. QSR sector. The U.S. QSR pizza category is primarily comprised of delivery, dine-in and carryout, with carryout and delivery comprising the two largest segments. In the U.S., we compete in the delivery and carryout segments of the pizza industry, and we are the dollar market share leader for delivery and carryout among pizza QSRs. Delivery segment dollars of $16.5 billion in 2023 (up from $14.0 billion in 2018) account for approximately 40% of total U.S. consumer spend at pizza QSRs. The four industry leaders, including Domino s, account for approximately 60% of U.S. pizza delivery, based on reported consumer spending, with the remaining dollars going to regional chains and independent or local establishments. From 2018 to 2023, the carryout segment grew from $16.9 billion to $20.2 billion. The four industry leaders, including Domino s, account for approximately 52% of the U.S. carryout segment. (Source: Circana, CREST, year ending December 2023). In contrast to the U.S., international pizza delivery is relatively underdeveloped, with only Domino s and two other competitors having a significant global presence. We believe that demand for pizza delivery and pizza carryout is large and growing throughout the world, driven by international consumers increasing emphasis on convenience, and is supported by our proven success of 40 years of conducting business abroad. Our Competition The global pizza delivery and carryout segments, as well as the broader QSR sector, are highly competitive. In the U.S., we compete against regional and independent or local companies as well as national chains Pizza Hut , Papa John s and Little Caesars Pizza . Internationally, we compete primarily with Pizza Hut, Papa John s and country-specific national, regional and local pizzerias. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, location, image, service, technology, convenience and price. Our business and those of our competitors can be affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, demographic trends, geopolitical and reputational considerations, marketing, advertising, pricing and consumers disposable income. We also compete with other restaurants, as well as order and delivery aggregation companies, which have continued to grow in size and scale in recent years. We compete not only for customers, but also for management and hourly employees, including store team members, drivers and qualified franchisees, as well as suitable real estate sites. Our Customers Our business is not dependent upon a single retail customer or small group of customers, including franchisees. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our total consolidated revenues in 2023, 2022 or 2021. As of December 31, 2023, our largest franchisee based on store count, Domino s Pizza Enterprises (DMP: ASX), operated 3,840 stores in 12 international markets, which accounted for approximately 28% of our international store count and 19% of our global store count. Revenues from this master franchisee accounted for 1.7% of our consolidated revenues in 2023. Our international franchise segment only requires a modest amount of general and administrative expenses to support its markets and does not have a cost of sales component. Therefore, the vast majority of these royalty revenues result in profits to us. Our Menu We offer a menu designed to present delicious, quality offerings to customers, while keeping it simple enough to minimize operational complexity and expedite order-taking and food preparation. Our basic menu features pizza products with varying sizes and crust types. Our typical store also offers side items including bread products, wings, boneless chicken, pastas, oven-baked sandwiches, dips, soft drink products and desserts. During 2023, we launched our newest menu items in the U.S., Domino s Loaded Tots and Pepperoni Stuffed Cheesy Bread. International market offerings vary by country and culture, such as the Lipu Taro Paste and Oats Double Decker Crust in China as well as offerings that tap into the spicy taste preferences of Domino s customers in India such as their Blazing Chicken and Paprika Pizza and Blazing Onion and Paprika Pizza. Store Image and Operations We operate two distinct service models within our stores with a significant business in both delivery and carryout. In the U.S., delivery and carryout generally contribute evenly to our overall system transaction count. The majority of our U.S. and international stores are constructed in the carryout-friendly Pizza Theater design. Many of these stores offer casual seating and enable customers to watch the preparation of their orders, but do not offer a full-service dine-in experience. As a result, our stores generally do not require expensive restaurant facilities and staffing. 5 Our Business Segments We operate, and report, three business segments: U.S. stores, international franchise and supply chain. U.S. Stores During 2023, our U.S. stores segment accounted for $1.45 billion, or 32%, of our consolidated revenues. Our U.S. stores segment is comprised primarily of our franchise operations, which consisted of 6,566 franchised stores located in the United States as of December 31, 2023. We also operated a network of 288 U.S. Company-owned stores as of December 31, 2023. Directly operating Domino s stores contributes significantly to our ability to act as a credible franchisor. We also use our Company-owned stores as test sites for technological innovation and promotions, as well as operational improvements. Additionally, we also use them for training new store managers and operations team members, as well as developing prospective franchisees. While we are primarily a franchised business, we continuously evaluate our mix of U.S. Company-owned and franchised stores. As of December 31, 2023, franchised stores represented approximately 96% of our total store count within our U.S. stores segment. U.S. Franchise Profile As of December 31, 2023, our network of 6,566 U.S. franchise stores was owned and operated by 735 independent U.S. franchisees. Our franchise formula enables franchisees to benefit from our brand recognition with a relatively low initial capital investment. As of December 31, 2023, the average U.S. franchisee owned and operated approximately nine stores and had been in our franchise system for over 17 years. Additionally, 22 of our U.S. franchisees operated more than 50 stores (including our largest U.S. franchisee who operated 143 stores) and 209 of our U.S. franchisees each operated one store as of December 31, 2023. We apply rigorous standards to prospective U.S. franchisees. We generally require them to manage a store for at least one year and graduate from our franchise management school program before being granted the right to franchise. This enables us to observe the operational and financial performance of a potential franchisee prior to entering into a long-term agreement. Substantially all of our independent U.S. franchise owners started their careers with us as delivery drivers or in other in-store positions, which we believe offers advantages in terms of familiarity with our business and store operations. In addition, we generally restrict the ability of U.S. franchisees to be involved in other businesses, which we believe helps focus our franchisees attention on operating their stores. We believe these characteristics and standards are largely unique within the franchise industry and have resulted in qualified and focused franchisees operating Domino s stores. We maintain a productive relationship with our independent franchise owners through regional franchise teams, distributing materials that help franchise stores comply with our standards and using franchise advisory groups that facilitate communications between us and our franchisees. We consider our relationship with our U.S. franchisees to be good. U.S. Franchise Agreements We enter into franchise agreements with U.S. franchisees under which the franchisee is generally granted the right to operate a store in a particular location for a term of ten years, with an ability to renew for an additional term of ten years. We had a franchise agreement renewal rate of approximately 99% in 2023. Under the current standard franchise agreement, we assign an exclusive area of primary responsibility to each franchised store. Each franchisee is generally required to pay a 5.5% royalty fee on sales, as well as certain technology fees. In certain instances, we will collect lower rates based on certain incentives. Our stores in the United States generally contribute 6.0% of their sales to fund national marketing and advertising campaigns (subject, in certain instances, to lower rates based on certain incentives and waivers). Beginning on March 27, 2023, Domino's National Advertising Fund Inc. ( DNAF ), the Company s consolidated not-for-profit advertising subsidiary, effectuated a temporary reduction of 0.25% to its standard 6.0% advertising contribution, which will expire on March 24, 2024. Contributions by our U.S. franchisees to DNAF are primarily used to purchase media for advertising, and also to support market research, field communications, public relations, commercial production, talent payments and other activities to promote the Domino s brand. In addition to the national and market-level advertising contributions, U.S. stores generally spend additional funds on local store marketing activities. We have the contractual right, subject to state law, to terminate a franchise agreement for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, a franchisee s failure to adhere to the Company s franchise agreement, failure to make required payments or failure to adhere to specified Company policies and standards. 6 International Franchise During 2023, our international franchise segment accounted for $310.1 million, or 7%, of our consolidated revenues. This segment is comprised of a network of franchised stores in over 90 international markets. As of December 31, 2023, we had 13,737 international franchised stores. The principal sources of revenues from those operations are royalty payments generated by retail sales from franchised stores, as well as certain technology fees. Our international franchisees employ our basic standard operating model and adapt it to satisfy the local eating habits and consumer preferences of various regions outside the U.S. Currently, the vast majority of our international stores operate under master franchise agreements. We believe that Domino s appeals to potential international franchisees because of our recognized brand name and technological leadership, the moderate capital expenditures required to open and operate the stores and the system s desirable store-level profitability. Stores in eight of our ten largest international markets in terms of store count are operated by master franchise companies that are publicly traded on stock exchanges as noted in the below table. The following table shows our store count as of December 31, 2023 in our ten largest international markets, which accounted for approximately 64% of our international stores as of that date. Market Number of stores India (JUBLFOOD: NS) 1,916 United Kingdom (DOM: L) 1,254 Japan (DMP: ASX) 1,015 Mexico (ALSEA: MX) 894 China (1405: HK) 771 Australia (DMP: ASX) 747 Turkey (DPEU: L) 689 Canada 605 France (DMP: ASX) 489 South Korea 480 International Franchisee Profile The vast majority of our markets outside of the U.S. are operated by master franchisees with franchise and distribution rights for entire regions or countries. In a few select markets, we franchise directly to individual store operators. Prospective master franchisees are required to possess local market knowledge to establish and develop Domino s stores, with the ability to identify and access targeted real estate sites, as well as expertise in local laws, customs, culture and consumer behavior. We also seek candidates that have access to sufficient capital to meet growth and development plans. We consider our relationship with our international franchisees to be good. International Master Franchise and Other Agreements Our international master franchise agreements generally grant the franchisee exclusive rights to develop and sub-franchise stores, and the right to operate supply chain centers in particular geographic areas. Agreements are generally for a term of ten years, with options to renew for additional terms. The agreements typically contain growth clauses requiring franchisees to open a minimum number of stores within a specified period. The master franchisee is generally required to pay an initial, one-time franchise fee as well as an additional franchise fee upon the opening of each new store. The master franchisee is also required to pay a continuing royalty fee as a percentage of sales, which varies among international markets and may also differ based on certain incentives and concessions, and averaged approximately 3.0% in 2023. We also have agreements with certain of our international master franchisees with respect to certain technology fees. Supply Chain During 2023, our supply chain segment accounted for $2.72 billion, or 61%, of our consolidated revenues. In the U.S., we operate 22 regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers, two thin crust manufacturing facilities, one vegetable processing center and one center providing equipment and supplies to our U.S. and certain international stores. We also operate five dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in Canada. We plan to continue investing in supply chain productivity initiatives in the future. Our supply chain segment leases a fleet of more than 1,000 tractors and trailers. Our centers produce fresh dough and purchase, receive, store and deliver quality food and other complementary items to substantially all of our U.S. stores and most of our Canadian franchised stores. We regularly supply over 7,400 stores with various food and supplies. 7 We believe our franchisees voluntarily choose to obtain food, supplies and equipment from us because we offer the most efficient, convenient and cost-effective alternative, while also offering both quality and consistency. Our supply chain segment offers profit-sharing arrangements to U.S. and Canadian franchisees who purchase all of their food for their stores from our centers. These profit-sharing arrangements generally offer participating franchisees and Company-owned stores with 50% of the pre-tax profit from our supply chain center operations. We believe these arrangements strengthen our ties to and provide aligned benefits with franchisees. Third-Party Suppliers A significant amount of our annual food spend is with suppliers with whom we maintain long-standing partnerships. Our supply partners are required to meet strict quality standards to ensure food safety. We review and evaluate these partners quality assurance programs through (among other actions) on-site visits, third-party audits and product evaluations designed to ensure compliance with our standards. We believe the length and quality of our relationships with third-party suppliers provides us with priority service and quality products at competitive prices. Cheese is our largest food cost. The price we charge to our U.S. franchisees for cheese is formula-based, with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange cheddar block price as the primary component, plus a supply chain markup. As cheese prices fluctuate, our revenues and margin percentages in our supply chain segment also fluctuate; however, actual supply chain dollar margins remain unchanged. We currently purchase our U.S. pizza cheese from a single supplier. Under our September 2017 agreement which expires in September 2024, our U.S. supplier agreed to provide the Company with an uninterrupted supply of cheese and the Company agreed to purchase all of its U.S. pizza cheese from this supplier. While we expect to meet the terms of this agreement, if we do not, we will be required to repay certain negotiated cost savings as provided in the agreement. The majority of our meat toppings in the U.S. come from a single supplier under a contract that expires at the end of December 2025. We have the right to terminate these arrangements for quality failures and for certain uncured breaches. We have entered into a multi-year agreement with Coca-Cola . This contract, renegotiated in December 2023, provides for Coca-Cola to continue to be our exclusive beverage supplier and expires on December 31, 2030 or at such time as a minimum number of cases of Coca-Cola products are purchased by Domino s, whichever occurs later. We believe alternative third-party suppliers are available for all of these referenced products. While we may incur additional costs if we are required to replace any of our supply partners, we do not believe such additional costs would have a material adverse effect on our business. We continually evaluate each supply category to determine the optimal sourcing strategy. We have not experienced any significant shortages of supplies or delays in receiving our inventories or products. Prices charged to us by our supply partners are subject to fluctuation, and we have historically been able to pass increased costs and savings on to stores. We periodically enter into supplier contracts to manage the risk from changes in commodity prices. We do not engage in speculative transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Our Strengths Strong Brand Equity We are the largest pizza company in the world, and we believe our Domino s brand is one of the most widely-recognized consumer brands in the world. We are the recognized world leader in pizza delivery, and, in the U.S., we are also the market share leader in carryout. We believe consumers associate our brand with the timely delivery of quality, affordable food and with technological innovation. Over the past five years, our U.S. franchise and Company-owned stores have invested an estimated $2.7 billion in national, co-operative and local advertising. Our international franchisees also invest significant amounts in advertising efforts in their markets. We continue to reinforce our brand with extensive advertising through various media channels. Market share information for the year ended December 2022 has been updated to reflect restated figures from Circana, which did not materially impact our market share positioning. We remain the number one pizza delivery company in the U.S. with approximately 30% share of delivery dollars at pizza QSRs, based on consumer spending data for the year ending December 2023, down from approximately 31% share for the year ended December 2022. For the same period, we are also leading in carryout with approximately 19% share of carryout/drive-thru QSR pizza consumer spending, up from approximately 18% share for the year ended December 2022. (Source: Circana, CREST). With 6,854 stores located in the U.S., our store delivery areas cover a majority of U.S. households. Our share position and scale allow us to leverage our purchasing power, supply chain strength and marketing investments. We believe our scale and market coverage allow us to effectively serve our customers demands for convenience and timely delivery. Outside the U.S., we have significant market share positions in many of the markets in which we compete. 8 Strong and Proven Business Model Our business model generates U.S. and international franchise royalties and fees, supply chain revenues and retail sales at Company-owned stores. We have developed this model over our many years of operation, and it is anchored by strong store-level economics, which provide an entrepreneurial incentive for our franchisees and historically has generated strong demand for new stores. Over the past ten years, average U.S. store profitability in the Domino s system has increased meaningfully, resulting in higher profitability for our franchise owners. Our franchise system, in turn, has produced strong and consistent earnings for us through royalty and fee payments and through supply chain gross margins. We developed a cost-efficient store model, characterized by a delivery and carryout-oriented store design, with moderate capital requirements and a menu of quality, value-oriented and affordable items. At the store level, we believe the simplicity and efficiency of our operations give us significant advantages over our competitors, who, in many cases, also focus on dine-in or have broader menu offerings. At the supply chain level, we believe we provide quality, good value and consistency for our franchise customers while also driving profits for us, which we share with our franchisees under the profit-sharing arrangements described above. Our menu simplifies and streamlines production and delivery processes and maximizes economies of scale on purchases of our principal food items. In addition, our stores, including those in our Pizza Theater image, are generally smaller and less expensive to build, furnish and maintain as compared to many other restaurant concepts, and they create a positive experience for our carryout customers. The combination of this efficient store model and strong sales volume has resulted in strong store-level economics and, we believe, makes Domino s an attractive business opportunity for existing and prospective franchisees around the world. We and our franchisees are continuing to focus on growing our global store count. In recent years, we have focused specifically on increasing our presence in our existing markets to provide better service to our customers, including condensing our delivery areas to provide better delivery service and adding locations that are closer to our carryout customers. We call this approach our fortressing strategy. We believe our store financial returns have led to a strong, well-diversified franchise system. This established franchise system has produced strong cash flows and earnings for us, enabling us to invest in the Domino s brand, stores, technology and supply chain centers, pay dividends, repurchase and retire shares of our common stock and service our debt obligations. Technological Innovation Technological innovation is vital to our brand and our long-term success, and technology is critical to competing in the global pizza and broader QSR industries. In the U.S., Domino s generated more than 85% of U.S. retail sales in 2023 from digital channels, and our emphasis on technological innovation has allowed us to develop many innovative ordering platforms, providing seven unique ways to order Domino s. During 2023, the Company entered into a new global agreement with Uber Technologies, Inc. (NYSE:UBER) to allow customers to order Domino s products through the Uber Eats and Postmates apps. In 2023, Domino s also launched Pinpoint Delivery, a new technology that allows customers to receive a delivery nearly anywhere, including places like parks, baseball fields and beaches. In addition, during 2023, we relaunched our Domino s Rewards loyalty program, which builds upon our previous loyalty program and is simple to unde