Item 1. Business. 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 29 Item 2. Properties. 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 29 Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant . 29 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant&#x2019;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 30 Item 6. [Reserved]. 31 Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 50 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 81 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 81 Item 9B. Other Information. 81 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 81 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 82 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 83 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 83 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 83 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 83 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 84 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 96 SIGNATURES 97 Throughout this document, Domino&#x2019;s Pizza, Inc. (NYSE: DPZ) is referred to as the &#x201c;Company,&#x201d; &#x201c;Domino&#x2019;s,&#x201d; &#x201c;Domino&#x2019;s Pizza&#x201d; or in the first-person notations of &#x201c;we,&#x201d; &#x201c;us&#x201d; and &#x201c;our.&#x201d; In this document, we rely on and refer to information regarding the U.S. quick service restaurant, or QSR, sector and the U.S. QSR pizza category from CREST ongoing foodservice market research (years ending November) prepared by The NPD Group, as well as market research reports, analyst reports and other publicly-available information. Although we believe this information to be reliable, we have not independently verified it. U.S. sales information relating to the U.S. QSR sector and the U.S. QSR pizza category represent reported consumer spending obtained by The NPD Group&#x2019;s CREST ongoing foodservice market research from consumer surveys. This information relates to both our Company-owned and franchised stores. 2 Part I Item 1. Business. Overview Domino&#x2019;s is the largest pizza company in the world with more than 18,800 locations in over 90 markets around the world as of January 2, 2022, and operates two distinct service models within its stores with a significant business in both delivery and carryout. Founded in 1960, our roots are in convenient pizza delivery, while a significant amount of our retail sales also come from carryout customers. We are a highly recognized global brand, and we focus on value while serving neighborhoods locally through our large worldwide network of franchise owners and U.S. Company-owned stores. We are primarily a franchisor, with approximately 98% of Domino&#x2019;s stores currently owned and operated by our independent franchisees. Franchising enables an individual to be his or her own employer and maintain control over all employment-related matters and pricing decisions, while also benefiting from the strength of the Domino&#x2019;s global brand and operating system with limited capital investment by us. The Domino&#x2019;s business model is straightforward: Domino&#x2019;s stores handcraft and serve quality food at a competitive price, with easy ordering access and efficient service, enhanced by our technological innovations. Our hand-tossed dough is made fresh and distributed to stores around the world by us and our franchisees. Domino&#x2019;s generates revenues and earnings by charging royalties and fees to our franchisees. Royalties are ongoing percent-of-sales fees for use of the Domino&#x2019;s brand marks. We also generate revenues and earnings by selling food, equipment and supplies to franchisees through our supply chain operations, primarily in the U.S. and Canada, and by operating a number of Company-owned stores in the United States. Franchisees profit by selling pizza and other complementary items to their local customers. In our international markets, we generally grant geographical rights to the Domino&#x2019;s Pizza brand to master franchisees. These master franchisees are charged with developing their geographical area, and they may profit by sub-franchising and selling food and equipment to those sub-franchisees, as well as by running pizza stores. We believe that everyone in the system can benefit, including the end consumer, who can purchase Domino&#x2019;s menu items for themselves and their family conveniently and economically. The Domino&#x2019;s business model can yield strong returns for our franchise owners and our Company-owned stores. It can also yield significant cash flows to us, through a consistent franchise royalty payment and supply chain revenue stream, with moderate capital expenditures. We have historically returned cash to shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases. We believe we have a proven business model for success, which includes leading with technology, service and product innovation and leveraging our global scale, which has historically driven strong returns for our shareholders. Our History We pioneered the pizza delivery business and have been delivering quality, affordable food to our customers since 1960. We became &#x201c;Domino&#x2019;s Pizza&#x201d; in 1965 and opened our first franchised store in 1967. Over the last 60 years, we have built Domino&#x2019;s into one of the most widely-recognized consumer brands in the world. We believe our commitment to value, convenience, quality and new products continues to keep consumers engaged with the brand. During 2021, the uncertain environment created by the novel coronavirus (&#x201c;COVID-19&#x201d;) pandemic persisted. However, we continued to increase global retail sales, while our supply chain operations experienced higher volumes as a result of the increase in retail sales. In the U.S. we launched our newest side item, Domino&#x2019;s Oven-Baked Dips in three unique flavors including Cheesy Marinara, Five Cheese and Baked Apple to pair with our Domino&#x2019;s Bread Twists. Additionally, emphasis on technological innovation helped us achieve more than half of all global retail sales in 2021 from digital channels. In the U.S., we have developed several innovative ordering platforms, including those for Google Home, Facebook Messenger, Apple Watch, Amazon Echo, Twitter and more. In 2019, we announced a partnership with Nuro to further our exploration and testing of autonomous pizza delivery. In 2021 we began a test of pizza delivery with Nuro vehicles in Houston, Texas. In 2020, we also launched a new way to order contactless carryout nationwide &#x2013; via Domino&#x2019;s Carside Delivery , which customers can choose when placing a prepaid online order, with a two-minute guarantee launched in 2021. This new service method emphasizes our commitment to serving hot and delicious pizza in a convenient, contactless manner. 3 Since 1998, the Company has been structured with a leveraged balance sheet and has completed a number of recapitalization transactions. The Company&#x2019;s most recent recapitalization transaction completed in April 2021, (the &#x201c;2021 Recapitalization&#x201d;), primarily consisted of the issuance of $1.85 billion of fixed rate notes and a new $200.0 million variable funding note facility. As of January 2, 2022, the Company had $5.07 billion in total debt, which included debt from its 2021 Recapitalization and its previous recapitalization transactions in 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 (the &#x201c;2019 Recapitalization,&#x201d; &#x201c;2018 Recapitalization,&#x201d; &#x201c;2017 Recapitalization&#x201d; and the &#x201c;2015 Recapitalization,&#x201d; respectively, and together with the 2021 Recapitalization, the &#x201c;2021, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Recapitalizations&#x201d;). Our Industry The U.S. QSR pizza category is large and fragmented. From 2016 through 2021, the U.S. QSR pizza category has grown from $35.9 billion to $40.6 billion. It is the second-largest category within the $304.8 billion U.S. QSR sector. The U.S. QSR pizza category is primarily comprised of delivery, dine-in and carryout, with carryout and delivery comprising the two largest segments. In the U.S., we compete in the delivery and carryout segments of the pizza industry, and we are the dollar market share leader for delivery and a growing leader in carryout. Delivery segment dollars of $19.8 billion in 2021 (up from $13.1 billion in 2016) account for approximately 49% of total U.S. QSR pizza. The four industry leaders, including Domino&#x2019;s, account for over 59% of U.S. pizza delivery, based on reported consumer spending, with the remaining dollars going to regional chains and independent establishments. From 2016 to 2021, the carryout segment grew from $16.3 billion to $17.5 billion. The four industry leaders, including Domino&#x2019;s, account for approximately 48% of the U.S. carryout segment. (Source: The NPD Group/CREST , year ending November 2021). In contrast to the U.S., international pizza delivery is relatively underdeveloped, with only Domino&#x2019;s and two other competitors having a significant global presence. We believe that demand for pizza delivery and pizza carryout is large and growing throughout the world, driven by international consumers&#x2019; increasing emphasis on convenience, and our proven success of more than 35 years of conducting business abroad. Our Competition The global pizza delivery and carryout segments, as well as the broader QSR sector, are highly competitive. In the U.S., we compete against regional and local companies as well as national chains Pizza Hut , Papa John&#x2019;s and Little Caesars Pizza . Internationally, we compete primarily with Pizza Hut , Papa John&#x2019;s and country-specific national and local pizzerias. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, location, image, service, technology, convenience and price. Our business and those of our competitors can be affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic and health conditions, demographic trends, marketing, advertising, pricing and consumers&#x2019; disposable income. We also compete with other food, food delivery and order and delivery aggregation companies, which have continued to grow in size and scale in recent years. We compete not only for customers, but also for management and hourly employees, including store team members, drivers and qualified franchisees, as well as suitable real estate sites. Our Customers Our business is not dependent upon a single retail customer or small group of customers, including franchisees. No customer accounted for more than 10% of total consolidated revenues in 2021, 2020 or 2019. As of January 2, 2022, our largest franchisee based on store count, Domino&#x2019;s Pizza Enterprises (DMP: ASX), operated 3,229 stores in ten international markets, and accounted for 17% of our total store count. Revenues from this master franchisee accounted for 1.7% of our consolidated revenues in 2021. Our international franchise segment only requires a modest amount of general and administrative expenses to support its markets and does not have a cost of sales component. Therefore, the vast majority of these royalty revenues result in profits to us. Our Menu We offer a menu designed to present an attractive, quality offering to customers, while keeping it simple enough to minimize order errors and expedite order-taking and food preparation. Our basic menu features pizza products with varying sizes and crust types. Our typical store also offers oven-baked sandwiches, pasta, boneless chicken and chicken wings, bread and dips side items, desserts and soft drink products. International markets vary toppings by country and culture, such as the Cheese and Corn pizza in India, or the Octopus Bomb Shrimp in Korea, featuring shrimp, octopus, vegetables, feta cream and horseradish sauce. 4 Store Image and Operations We have been focused on pizza delivery for over 60 years, and we also emphasize carryout as a significant component of our business. The majority of our U.S. and international stores are constructed in the carryout-friendly Pizza Theater design. Many of these stores offer casual seating and enable customers to watch the preparation of their orders, but do not offer a full-service dine-in experience. As a result, our stores generally do not require expensive restaurant facilities and staffing. Our Business Segments We operate, and report, three business segments: U.S. stores, international franchise and supply chain. U.S. Stores During 2021, our U.S. stores segment accounted for $1.50 billion, or 34%, of our consolidated revenues. Our U.S. stores segment consists primarily of our franchise operations, which consisted of 6,185 franchised stores located in the United States as of January 2, 2022. We also operated a network of 375 U.S. Company-owned stores as of January 2, 2022. Directly operating Domino&#x2019;s stores contributes significantly to our ability to act as a credible franchisor. We also use our Company-owned stores as test sites for technological innovation and promotions as well as operational improvements. We also use them for training new store managers and operations team members, as well as developing prospective franchisees. While we are primarily a franchised business, we continuously evaluate our mix of U.S. Company-owned and franchise stores. As of January 2, 2022, franchised stores represented approximately 94% of our total store count within our U.S. stores segment. U.S. Franchise Profile As of January 2, 2022, our network of 6,185 U.S. franchise stores was owned and operated by 735 independent U.S. franchisees. Our franchise formula enables franchisees to benefit from our brand recognition with a relatively low initial capital investment. As of January 2, 2022, the average U.S. franchisee owned and operated approximately eight stores and had been in our franchise system for over 18 years. Additionally, 22 of our U.S. franchisees operated more than 50 stores (including our largest U.S. franchisee who operated 177 stores) and 216 of our U.S. franchisees each operated one store, each as of that date. We apply rigorous standards to prospective U.S. franchisees. We generally require them to manage a store for at least one year and graduate from our franchise management school program before being granted the right to franchise. This enables us to observe the operational and financial performance of a potential franchisee prior to entering into a long-term agreement. Substantially all of our independent U.S. franchise owners started their careers with us as delivery drivers or in other in-store positions, which we believe offers advantages in terms of familiarity with our business and store operations. In addition, we generally restrict the ability of U.S. franchisees to be involved in other businesses, which we believe helps focus our franchisees&#x2019; attention on operating their stores. We believe these characteristics and standards are largely unique within the franchise industry and have resulted in qualified and focused franchisees operating Domino&#x2019;s stores. We maintain a productive relationship with our independent franchise owners through regional franchise teams, distributing materials that help franchise stores comply with our standards and using franchise advisory groups that facilitate communications between us and our franchisees. We consider our relationship with our U.S. franchisees to be good. U.S. Franchise Agreements We enter into franchise agreements with U.S. franchisees under which the franchisee is generally granted the right to operate a store in a particular location for a term of ten years, with an ability to renew for an additional term of ten years. We had a franchise agreement renewal rate of approximately 99% in 2021. Under the current standard franchise agreement, we assign an exclusive area of primary responsibility to each franchised store. Each franchisee is generally required to pay a 5.5% royalty fee on sales, as well as certain technology fees. In certain instances, we will collect lower rates based on certain incentives. 5 Our stores in the United States currently contribute 6% of their sales to fund national marketing and advertising campaigns (subject, in certain instances, to lower rates based on certain incentives and waivers). These funds are administered by Domino&#x2019;s National Advertising Fund Inc. (&#x201c;DNAF&#x201d;), our consolidated not-for-profit advertising subsidiary. The funds are primarily used to purchase media for advertising, and also to support market research, field communications, public relations, commercial production, talent payments and other activities to promote the Domino&#x2019;s brand. In addition to the national and market-level advertising contributions, U.S. stores generally spend additional funds on local store marketing activities. We have the contractual right, subject to state law, to terminate a franchise agreement for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, a franchisee&#x2019;s failure to adhere to the Company&#x2019;s franchise agreement, failure to make required payments, or failure to adhere to specified Company policies and standards. International Franchise During 2021, our international franchise segment accounted for $298.0 million, or 7%, of our consolidated revenues. This segment is comprised of a network of franchised stores in more than 90 international markets. As of January 2, 2022, we had 12,288 international franchise stores. The principal sources of revenues from those operations are royalty payments generated by retail sales from franchised stores, as well as certain technology fees. Our international franchisees employ our basic standard operating model and adapt it to satisfy the local eating habits and consumer preferences of various regions outside the U.S. Currently, the vast majority of our international stores operate under master franchise agreements. We believe Domino&#x2019;s appeals to potential international franchisees because of our recognized brand name and technological leadership, the moderate capital expenditures required to open and operate the stores and the system&#x2019;s desirable store-level profitability. Stores in seven of our ten largest international markets in terms of store count are operated by master franchise companies that are publicly traded on stock exchanges as noted in the below table. The following table shows our store count as of January 2, 2022 in our ten largest international markets, which accounted for approximately 62% of our international stores as of that date. Market Number of stores India (JUBLFOOD: NS) 1,495 United Kingdom (DOM: L) 1,169 Japan (DMP: ASX) 882 Mexico (ALSEA: MX) 802 Australia (DMP: ASX) 724 Turkey (DPEU: L) 605 Canada 568 South Korea 475 China 472 France (DMP: ASX) 457 International Franchisee Profile The vast majority of our markets outside of the U.S. are operated by master franchisees with franchise and distribution rights for entire regions or countries. In a few select markets, we franchise directly to individual store operators. Prospective master franchisees are required to possess local market knowledge to establish and develop Domino&#x2019;s stores, with the ability to identify and access targeted real estate sites, as well as expertise in local laws, customs, culture and consumer behavior. We also seek candidates that have access to sufficient capital to meet growth and development plans. We consider our relationship with our international franchisees to be good. International Master Franchise and Other Agreements Our international master franchise agreements generally grant the franchisee exclusive rights to develop and sub-franchise stores, and the right to operate supply chain centers in particular geographic areas. Agreements are generally for a term of ten years, with options to renew for additional terms. The agreements typically contain growth clauses requiring franchisees to open a minimum number of stores within a specified period. The master franchisee is generally required to pay an initial, one-time franchise fee as well as an additional franchise fee upon the opening of each new store. The master franchisee is also required to pay a continuing royalty fee as a percentage of sales, which varies among international markets and may also differ based on certain incentives and concessions, and averaged approximately 3.0% in 2021. We also have agreements with certain of our international master franchisees with respect to certain technology fees. 6 Supply Chain During 2021, our supply chain segment accounted for $2.56 billion, or 59%, of our consolidated revenues. We operate 21 regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in the U.S., two thin crust manufacturing facilities, one vegetable processing center and one center providing equipment and supplies to our U.S. and certain international stores. We also operate five dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in Canada. We plan to continue investing in additional supply chain centers and capacity initiatives in the future, including one additional regional dough manufacturing and supply chain center that is expected to open in fiscal 2022. Our supply chain segment leases a fleet of more than 900 tractors and trailers. Our centers produce fresh dough and purchase, receive, store and deliver quality food and other complementary items to substantially all of our U.S. stores and most of our Canadian franchised stores. We regularly supply over 7,100 stores with various food and supplies. We believe our franchisees voluntarily choose to obtain food, supplies and equipment from us because we offer the most efficient, convenient and cost-effective alternative, while also offering both quality and consistency. Our supply chain segment offers profit-sharing arrangements to U.S. and Canadian franchisees who purchase all of their food for their stores from our centers. These profit-sharing arrangements generally offer participating franchisees and Company-owned stores with 50% (or a higher percentage in the case of Company-owned stores and certain franchisees who operate a larger number of stores) of the pre-tax profit from our supply chain center operations. We believe these arrangements strengthen our ties to and provide aligned benefits with franchisees. Third-Party Suppliers A significant amount of our annual food spend is with suppliers with whom we maintain long-standing partnerships. Our supply partners are required to meet strict quality standards to ensure food safety. We review and evaluate these partners&#x2019; quality assurance programs through (among other actions) on-site visits, third-party audits and product evaluations designed to ensure compliance with our standards. We believe the length and quality of our relationships with third-party suppliers provides us with priority service and quality products at competitive prices. Cheese is our largest food cost. The price we charge to our U.S. franchisees for cheese is formula-based, with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange cheddar block price as the primary component, plus a supply chain markup. As cheese prices fluctuate, our revenues and margin percentages in our supply chain segment also fluctuate; however, actual supply chain dollar margins remain unchanged. We currently purchase our U.S. pizza cheese from a single supplier. Under our September 2017 agreement, our U.S. supplier agreed to provide the Company with an uninterrupted supply of cheese and the Company agreed to a seven-year pricing schedule to purchase all of its U.S. pizza cheese from this supplier. While we expect to meet the terms of this agreement, if we do not, we will be required to repay certain negotiated cost savings as provided in the agreement. The majority of our meat toppings in the U.S. come from a single supplier under a contract that expires in June 2022. We have the right to terminate these arrangements for quality failures and for certain uncured breaches. We have entered into a multi-year agreement with Coca-Cola for the U.S. This contract, renegotiated in June 2019, provides for Coca-Cola to continue to be our exclusive beverage supplier and expires on December 31, 2023 or at such time as a minimum number of cases of Coca-Cola products are purchased by Domino&#x2019;s, whichever occurs later. We believe alternative third-party suppliers are available for all of these referenced products. While we may incur additional costs if we are required to replace any of our supply partners, we do not believe such additional costs would have a material adverse effect on our business. We continually evaluate each supply category to determine the optimal sourcing strategy. We have not experienced any significant shortages of supplies or delays in receiving our inventories or products. Prices charged to us by our supply partners are subject to fluctuation, and we have historically been able to pass increased costs and savings on to stores. We periodically enter into supplier contracts to manage the risk from changes in commodity prices. We do not engage in speculative transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 7 Our Strengths Strong Brand Equity We are the largest pizza company in the world and we believe our Domino&#x2019;s brand is one of the most widely-recognized consumer brands in the world. We are the recognized world leader in pizza delivery and have a significant business in carryout. We believe consumers associate our brand with the timely delivery of quality, affordable food and technological innovation. Over the past five years, our U.S. franchise and Company-owned stores have invested an estimated $2.4 billion in national, co-operative and local advertising. Our international franchisees also invest significant amounts in advertising efforts in their markets. We continue to reinforce our brand with extensive advertising through various media channels. We are the number one pizza delivery company in the U.S. with approximately 31% share of pizza delivery based on consumer spending data for the year ending November 2021. For the same period, we are also a growing leader in carryout with approximately 16% share of carryout pizza consumer spending (Source: The NPD Group/CREST , year ending November 2021). With 6,560 stores located in the U.S., our store delivery areas cover a majority of U.S. households. Our share position and scale allow us to leverage our purchasing power, supply chain strength and marketing investments. We believe our scale and market coverage allow us to effectively serve our customers&#x2019; demands for convenience and timely delivery. Outside the U.S., we have significant market share positions in many of the markets in which we compete. Strong and Proven Business Model Our business model generates U.S. and international franchise royalties and fees, supply chain revenue and retail sales at Company-owned stores. We have developed this model over our many years of operation, and it is anchored by strong store-level economics, which provide an entrepreneurial incentive for our franchisees and historically has generated demand for new stores. Over the past ten years, average U.S. store profitability in the Domino&#x2019;s system has increased meaningfully, resulting in higher profitability for our franchise owners. Our franchise system, in turn, has produced strong and consistent earnings for us through royalty payments and through supply chain revenues. We developed a cost-efficient store model, characterized by a delivery- and carryout-oriented store design, with moderate capital requirements and a menu of quality, value-oriented and affordable items. At the store level, we believe the simplicity and efficiency of our operations give us significant advantages over our competitors, who, in many cases, also focus on dine-in or have broader menu offerings. At the supply chain level, we believe we provide quality, good value and consistency for our franchise customers while also driving profits for us, which we share with our franchisees under the profit-sharing arrangements described above. Our menu simplifies and streamlines production and delivery processes and maximizes economies of scale on purchases of our principal food items. In addition, our stores, including those in our Pizza Theater image, are generally smaller and less expensive to build, furnish and maintain as compared to many other restaurant concepts, and they create a positive experience for our carryout customers. The combination of this efficient store model and strong sales volume has resulted in strong store-level economics and, we believe, makes Domino&#x2019;s an attractive business opportunity for existing and prospective franchisees around the world. We and our franchisees are continuing to focus on growing our global store count. In recent years, we have focused specifically on increasing our presence in our existing markets to provide better service to our customers, including shrinking our delivery areas to provide better delivery service and adding locations that are closer to our carryout customers. We call this approach our fortressing strategy. We believe our store financial returns have led to a strong, well-diversified franchise system. This established franchise system has produced strong cash flows and earnings for us, enabling us to invest in the Domino&#x2019;s brand, stores, technology and supply chain centers, pay dividends, repurchase and retire shares of our common stock and 