Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Res erved 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 38 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B. Other Information 78 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 78 Item 11. Executive Compensation 78 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 79 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 79 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 79 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 79 Signatures 80 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements set forth in or incorporated into this report regarding the expected increase in sales from continuing operations, same-restaurant sales, the number of our restaurants, our annual effective tax rate and capital expenditures in fiscal 2023, and all other statements that are not historical facts, including without limitation statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business of Darden Restaurants, Inc. and its subsidiaries that are preceded by, followed by or that include words such as may, will, expect, intend, anticipate, continue, estimate, project, believe, plan, outlook or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are included, along with this statement, for purposes of complying with the safe harbor provisions of that Act. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements for any reason to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition to the risks and uncertainties of ordinary business obligations, and those described in information incorporated into this report, the forward-looking statements contained in this report are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A below under the heading Risk Factors. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Introduction Darden Restaurants, Inc. is a full-service restaurant company, and as of May 29, 2022, we owned and operated 1,867 restaurants through subsidiaries in the United States and Canada under the Olive Garden , LongHorn Steakhouse , Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen , Yard House , The Capital Grille , Seasons 52 , Bahama Breeze , Eddie V s Prime Seafood , and The Capital Burger trademarks. As of May 29, 2022, we also had 60 restaurants operated by independent third parties pursuant to area development and franchise agreements. The following table details the number of company-owned and operated restaurants, as well as those operated under franchise agreements, as of May 29, 2022: Number of restaurants Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen Yard House (1) The Capital Grille Seasons 52 Bahama Breeze Eddie V s The Capital Burger Total Owned and operated: United States 876 546 172 85 62 45 42 28 3 1,859 Canada 8 8 Total 884 546 172 85 62 45 42 28 3 1,867 Franchised: United States (2) 11 18 4 1 34 Latin America 24 2 26 Total 35 18 4 2 1 60 (1) Includes two restaurants that are owned jointly by us and third parties, and managed by us. (2) Includes Puerto Rico and Guam. Darden Restaurants, Inc. is a Florida corporation incorporated in March 1995, and is the parent company of GMRI, Inc., also a Florida corporation. GMRI, Inc. and certain other of our subsidiaries own and operate our restaurants. GMRI, Inc. was originally incorporated in March 1968 as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc. We were acquired by General Mills, Inc. in 1970 and became a separate publicly held company in 1995 when General Mills distributed all of our outstanding stock to the stockholders of General Mills. Our principal executive offices and restaurant support center are located at 1000 Darden Center Drive, Orlando, Florida 32837, telephone (407) 245-4000. Our corporate website address is www.darden.com . We make our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website the same day as the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to Darden, the Company, we, our or us include Darden Restaurants, Inc., GMRI, Inc. and our respective subsidiaries. We have a 52/53 week fiscal year ending the last Sunday in May. Our fiscal year 2022 ended May 29, 2022 and consisted of 52 weeks, fiscal 2021 ended May 30, 2021 and consisted of 52 weeks, and fiscal 2020 ended May 31, 2020 and consisted of 53 weeks. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with the information in Part II of this report under the caption Item 7 - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. COVID-19 Pandemic and Other Impacts to our Operating Environment For much of fiscal 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a significant reduction in guest traffic at our restaurants due to changes in consumer behavior as public health officials encouraged social distancing and required personal protective equipment (PPE). Also, some state and local governments mandated restrictions including suspension of dine-in operations, reduced restaurant seating capacity, table spacing requirements, bar closures and additional physical barriers. Once COVID-19 vaccines were approved and moved into wider distribution in the United States in early 2021, public health conditions improved and almost all of the COVID-19 restrictions on businesses eased. 1 During fiscal 2022, increases in the number of cases of COVID-19 throughout the United States including the Omicron variant which significantly impacted our restaurants in the third quarter, mostly in January 2022, subjected some of our restaurants to other COVID-19-related restrictions such as mask and/or vaccine requirements for team members, guests or both. Exclusions and quarantines of restaurant team members or groups thereof disrupt an individual restaurant s operations and often come with little or no notice to the local restaurant management. During fiscal 2022, along with COVID-19, our operating results were impacted by geopolitical and other macroeconomic events, leading to higher than usual inflation on wages and other cost of goods sold. These events further impacted the availability of team members needed to staff our restaurants and caused additional disruptions in our product supply chain. The ongoing effects of COVID-19 and its variants, along with other geopolitical and macroeconomic events could lead to further capacity restrictions, mask and vaccination mandates, wage inflation, staffing challenges, product cost inflation and disruptions in the supply chain that impact our restaurants ability to obtain the products needed to support their operations. Segment Information We manage our restaurant brands in North America as operating segments. The brands operate principally in the U.S. within full-service dining. We aggregate our operating segments into reportable segments based on a combination of the size, economic characteristics and sub-segment of full-service dining within which each brand operates. We have four reportable segments: 1) Olive Garden, 2) LongHorn Steakhouse, 3) Fine Dining (which includes The Capital Grille and Eddie V s) and 4) Other Business (which includes Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen, Yard House, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52, The Capital Burger and results from our franchise operations). External sales are derived principally from food and beverage sales, we do not rely on any major customers as a source of sales and the customers and long-lived assets of our reportable segments are predominantly in the U.S. There were no material transactions among reportable segments. Restaurant Brands Olive Garden Olive Garden is an internally-developed brand and is the largest full-service dining Italian restaurant operator in the United States. Olive Garden offers a variety of Italian foods featuring fresh ingredients presented simply with a focus on flavor and quality, and a broad selection of imported Italian wines. In 1982, Olive Garden opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. Most dinner menu entr e prices range from $10.00 to $20.00, and most lunch menu entr e prices range from $8.00 to $10.00. The price of each entr e includes as much fresh salad or soup and breadsticks as a guest desires. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person (defined as total sales divided by number of entr es sold) was approximately $21.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 5.5 percent of Olive Garden s sales. Olive Garden maintains dif ferent menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children s menu. LongHorn Steakhouse LongHorn Steakhouse is a full-service steakhouse restaurant brand with locations primarily in the eastern United States, operating in an atmosphere inspired by the American West. LongHorn Steakhouse opened its first restaurant in 1981 and we acquired LongHorn Steakhouse in October 2007 as part of the RARE Hospitality International, Inc. (RARE) acquisition. LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants feature a variety of menu items including signature fresh steaks and chicken, as well as salmon, shrimp, ribs, pork chops and burgers. Most dinner menu entr e prices range from $12.50 to $32.50, and most lunch menu entr e prices range from $9.00 to $13.00. The price of most entr es includes a side and/or salad and as much freshly baked bread as a guest desires. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approximately $24.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 9.0 percent of LongHorn Steakhouse s sales. LongHorn Steakhouse maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children s menu. Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen is a full-service restaurant brand operating primarily in Texas and throughout the southern, mid-western and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. The casual dining menu features modern classics and American favorites cooked from scratch. Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen opened its first restaurant in 1979 and we acquired Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen in April 2017. 2 Most lunch and dinner menu entr e prices range from $8.00 to $21.00. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approximately $16.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 8.3 percent of Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen s sales. Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen features different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children s menu . Yard House Yard House is a full-service restaurant brand operating in metropolitan areas across the United States and is known for great food, classic rock and over 100 draft beer offerings. The American menu includes more than 100 chef driven items with a wide range of appetizers, snacks, burgers and steaks, street tacos, salads, sandwiches and a generous selection of vegetarian dishes. Yard House opened its first restaurant in 1996 and we acquired Yard House in August 2012. Yard House design elements create a contemporary, yet casual, come as you are environment. Most lunch and dinner menu entr e prices range from $9.00 to $48.00. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approximately $33.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 33.8 percent of Yard House s sales. Yard House maintains different menus and selections of craft beers across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children s menu. The Capital Grille The Capital Grille is a fine dining restaurant brand with locations primarily in major metropolitan cities in the United States featuring relaxed elegance and style. The Capital Grille opened its first restaurant in 1990 and we acquired The Capital Grille in October 2007 as part of the RARE acquisition. Nationally acclaimed for dry aging steaks on the premises, the restaurants feature an award-winning wine list offering over 350 selections, personalized service, a comfortable club-like atmosphere, and premiere private dining rooms. Most dinner menu entr e price s range from $34.00 to $95.00 and m ost lunch menu entr e p rices range from $19.00 to $49.00. Durin g fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approxi mately $92.50, with al coholic beverages accounting for 27.7 percent of The Capital Grille s sales. The Capital Grille offers different menus for dinner and lunch and varies its wine list to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections. Seasons 52 Seasons 52 is an internally-developed full-service restaurant brand with a casually sophisticated, fresh grill and wine bar that offers a seasonally changing menu with all items under 595 calories. The menu includes an international collection of wines, featuring 52 wines available by the glass, along with exceptional signature handcrafted cocktails. In 2003, Seasons 52 opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. Most lunch and dinner menu entr e prices range from $12.00 to $46.50. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approximately $47.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 24.4 percent of Seasons 52 s sales. Seasons 52 maintains an all-day menu in addition to different seasonal offerings, a pared-down lunch menu and a happy-hour menu. Bahama Breeze Bahama Breeze is an internally-developed full-service restaurant brand operating primarily in the eastern United States that offers guests the feeling of a Caribbean escape, with food, drinks and atmosphere found in the islands. The menu features distinctive, Caribbean-inspired fresh seafood, chicken and steaks as well as handcrafted tropical cocktails. In 1996, Bahama Breeze opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. Most lunch and dinner menu entr e prices range from $8.50 to $24.00. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approximately $30.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 22.9 percent of Bahama Breeze s sales. Bahama Breeze maintains different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children s menu. Eddie V s Eddie V s is a fine dining restaurant brand with locations in major metropolitan cities in the United States, with a sophisticated and contemporary ambiance, featuring live music trios nightly in the V Lounge. Dishes are artistically prepared and feature an ever-changing array of seasonal seafood, along with critically acclaimed prime steaks, hand cut and broiled to perfection. The atmosphere provides an alluring dining experience reminiscent of a modern day Gatsby, infusing an indulgent experience with an irresistible vibe. Eddie V s opened its first restaurant in 2000 and we acquired Eddie V s in November 2011. 3 Most dinner menu entr e prices range from $35.00 to $102.00. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approximately $109.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 30.1 percent of Eddie V s sales. Eddie V s maintains different menus for dinner and varies its wine list to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections. The Capital Burger The Capital Burger is an internally created, development-stage full-service restaurant concept with locations primarily in major metropolitan cities in the United States that offers guests a luxe burger experience. The Capital Burger opened its first restaurant in 2018. The menu features burgers made with a proprietary beef blend, sandwiches and appetizers. It is a bar-centric concept offering local craft beers, a unique wine list and spiked shakes. Multiple items take from the parentage of The Capital Grille, like the signature Stoli Doli, a pineapple-infused martini. Most lunch and dinner menu entr e prices range from $16.00 to $30.00. During fiscal 2022, the average check per person was approximately $31.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 31.2 percent of The Capital Burger s sales. The Capital Burger maintains an all-day menu in addition to a happy hour menu. The following table shows our restaurant growth over the last five years and lists the number of restaurants owned and operated by each of our brands as of the end of the fiscal years indicated. The table excludes our restaurants operated by independent third parties pursuant to area development and franchise agreements. The final column in the table lists our total sales from continuing operations for the fiscal years indicated. Fiscal Year Olive Garden LongHorn Steakhouse Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen Yard House The Capital Grille Seasons 52 Bahama Breeze Eddie V s The Capital Burger Total Restaurants Total Sales ( in millions ) (1) 2018 856 504 156 72 57 42 39 19 1 1,746 $8,080.1 2019 866 514 161 79 57 44 42 21 1 1,785 $8,510.4 2020 868 522 165 81 58 44 41 23 2 1,804 $7,806.9 2021 875 533 170 81 60 44 42 26 3 1,834 $7,196.1 2022 884 546 172 85 62 45 42 28 3 1,867 $9,630.0 (1) During fiscal 2020 and 2021, many of our locations experienced restrictions on operations, including the ability to have dine-in operations and were subject to vaccine and/or mask mandates. Strategy We believe that capable operators of strong multi-unit brands have the opportunity to increase their share of the restaurant industry s full-service segment. Generally, the restaurant industry is considered to be comprised of three segments: quick service, fast casual, and full-service. All of our restaurants fall within the full-service segment, which is highly fragmented and includes many independent operators and small chains. We believe we have strong brands, and that the breadth and depth of our experience and expertise sets us apart in the full-service restaurant industry. This collective capability is the product of investments over many years in areas that are critical to success in our business, including restaurant operations excellence, brand management excellence, supply chain, talent management and information technology, among other things. Although we have continued to adapt our business model throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our operating philosophy remains focused on strengthening the core operational fundamentals of the business by providing an outstanding guest experience rooted in culinary innovation, attentive service, engaging atmosphere, and integrated marketing. Darden enables each brand to reach its full potential by leveraging its scale, insights, and experience in a way that protects uniqueness and competitive advantages. Additionally, our brands can capitalize on data driven insights to deliver customized one-to-one customer relationship marketing. We hold ourselves accountable for operating our restaurants with a sense of urgency to achieve our commitments to all of our stakeholders. 4 Recent and Planned Restaurant Growth During fiscal 2022, we added 33 net new company-owned restaurants in the United States. Our fiscal 2022 actual restaurant openings and closings, fiscal 2023 projected openings, and approximate capital investment, square footage and dining capacity, by brand (4) , are shown below: Actual - Fiscal 2022 Projected - Fiscal 2023 Pro-Forma New Restaurants Restaurant Openings Restaurant Closings New Restaurant Openings Capital Investment Range (1) (in millions) Approximate Square Feet (2) Approximate Dining Seats (3) Olive Garden 10 1 22-25 $3.7 - $5.2 7,700 250 LongHorn Steakhouse 14 1 15-18 $3.0 - $4.2 5,700 180 Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen 3 1 9-11 $4.0 - $5.2 8,000 260 Yard House 4 2-3 $7.0 - $8.5 11,000 360 The Capital Grille 2 2-3 $8.0 - $9.0 10,000 320 Seasons 52 1 0-1 $5.5 - $6.5 9,000 250 Bahama Breeze 0-1 $5.0 - $6.0 9,000 350 Eddie V s 2 1-2 $8.0 - $9.0 10,000 320 Totals 36 3 55 - 60 (1) Includes cash investments for building, equipment, furniture and other construction costs; excludes internal capitalized overhead, pre-opening expenses, tenant allowance and future lease obligations. Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse and Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen capital investments are based on costs associated with land-only leases; Yard House, The Capital Grille, Seasons 52, Bahama Breeze and Eddie V s capital investments are based on ground and building leases. Actual costs can vary significantly depending on the specific location. (2) Includes all space under the roof, including the coolers and freezers; based on primary prototypes. (3) Includes bar dining seats and patio seating, but excludes bar stools. (4) The Capital Burger is a development-stage concept with limited pro-forma information, as such, it is excluded from this table. While our objective is to continue to expand all of our restaurant brands, the actual number of openings for each of our brands for fiscal 2023 will depend on many factors, including our ability to recruit and train restaurant management and hourly personnel, locate appropriate sites, negotiate acceptable purchase or lease terms, obtain necessary local governmental permits, and complete construction. We consider location to be a critical factor in determining a restaurant s long-term success, and we devote significant effort to the site selection process. Prior to entering a market, we conduct a thorough study to determine the optimal number and placement of restaurants. Our site selection process incorporates a variety of analytical techniques to evaluate key factors. These factors include trade area demographics, such as target population density and household income levels; competitive influences in the trade area; the site s visibility, accessibility and traffic volume; and proximity to activity centers such as shopping malls, hotel/motel complexes, offices and universities. Members of senior management evaluate, inspect and approve each restaurant site prior to its acquisition. Constructing and opening a new restaurant typically takes approximately 180 days on average after the site is acquired and permits are obtained. We systematically review the performance of our restaurants to ensure that each one meets our standards. When a restaurant falls below minimum standards, we conduct a thorough analysis to determine the causes, and implement operational and marketing plans to improve that restaurant s performance. If performance does not improve to acceptable levels, the restaurant is evaluated for relocation, closing or conversion to one of our other brands. Permanent closures are typically due to economic changes in trade areas, the expiration of lease agreements, or site concerns. Accordingly, we continue to evaluate our site locations in order to minimize the risk of future closures or asset impairment charges. 5 Restaurant Operations We believe that high-quality restaurant management is critical to our long-term success. Our restaurant management structure varies by brand and restaurant size. We issue detailed operations manuals covering all aspects of restaurant operations, as well as food and beverage manuals which detail the preparation procedures of our recipes. The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each restaurant and for ensuring compliance with our operating standards. The management structures below describe our restaurant operations during the normal and fully operational conditions that were in place at the end of fiscal 2022. Over the course of fiscal 2021 and 2022, as the COVID-19 pandemic impacted our business, the staffing levels at many of our restaurants varied periodically, as our dining rooms operated under a range of pandemic conditions that also varied from time to time, from state to state and city to city. As our restaurant operations continued to evolve in response to the pandemic, we have evolved our operational structure and made adjustments to restaurant staffing where appropriate. As a result, the descriptions below may not precisely reflect the current or future structure of our restaurant operations. Each Olive Garden restaurant is led by a General Manager, and each LongHorn Steakhouse and Cheddar s Scratch Kitchen restaurant is led by a Managing Partner. Each also has three to six additional managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant. In addition, each restaurant typically employs between 35 to 200 hourly team members, most of whom work part-time. Restaurant General Managers or Managing Partners report to a Director of Operations who is responsible for approximately five to eleven restaurants. Each Director of Operations reports to a Senior Vice President of Operations who is responsible for between 80 and 120 restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by operations management, including officer level executives, to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards and to solicit feedback on opportunities for improvement. Each Yard House and Bahama Breeze restaurant is led by a General Manager, and each The Capital Grille, Seasons 52, Eddie V s and The Capital Burger restaurant is led by a Managing Partner. Each also has three to ten additional managers. Each Yard House, The Capital Grille, Seasons 52 and Eddie V s restaurant has one executive chef and one to two sous chefs. The Capital Burger restaurant has one sous chef and each Bahama Breeze restaurant has one to three culinary managers. In addition, each restaurant typically employs between 60 to 200 hourly team members, most of whom work part-time. The General Manager or Managing Partner of each restaurant reports directly to a Director of Operations, who has operational responsibility for approximately three to eleven restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by operations management, including officer level executives, to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards and to solicit feedback on opportunities for improvement. Our Learning and Development team in partnership with each brand s training leader, together with senior operations executives, is responsible for developing and maintaining our operations training programs. These efforts include an eight to twelve-week training program for management trainees and continuing development programs for all levels of leadership. The emphasis of the training and development programs varies by restaurant brand, but includes leadership, restaurant business management and culinary skills. We also use a highly structured training program to open new restaurants, including deploying training teams experienced in all aspects of restaurant operations. The opening training teams typically begin work one and a half weeks prior to opening and remain at the new restaurant for up to three weeks after the opening. They are re-deployed as appropriate to enable a smooth transition to the restaurant s operating staff. We maintain performance measurement and incentive compensation programs for our management-level team members. We believe that our leadership position, strong results-oriented culture and various short-term and long-term incentive programs, including stock-based compensation, enhances our ability to attract and retain highly motivated restaurant managers. Quality Assurance Our Total Quality Department helps ensure that all restaurants provide safe, high-quality food in a clean and safe environment. Food Safety and our Total Quality Program Through rigorous supplier and risk-based product evaluations, we purchase only products that meet or exceed our product specifications. We rely on independent third parties to inspect and evaluate our suppliers and distributors. Suppliers that produce high-risk products are subject to a food safety evaluation by Darden personnel at least annually. We require our suppliers to maintain sound manufacturing practices and operate with comprehensive Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) food safety programs and risk-based preventative controls adopted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. These programs focus on preventing hazards that could cause food-borne illnesses by applying scientifically-based controls to analyze hazards, 6 identify and monitor critical control points, and establish corrective actions when monitoring shows that a critical limit has not been met. Third party auditors inspect each restaurant regularly throughout the year to assess food safety and sanitation practices. Our total quality team verifies the application of preventative controls through on-site support visits ensuring an effective and robust food safety system. Total quality managers provide support to 