ITEM 1. BUSINESS DUKE ENERGY General Duke Energy was incorporated on May 3, 2005, and is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, subject to regulation by the FERC and other regulatory agencies listed below. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Certain Duke Energy subsidiaries are also Subsidiary Registrants, including Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Piedmont. When discussing Duke Energy s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its separate Subsidiary Registrants, which along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants. The Duke Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the SEC, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to such reports. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke Energy Registrants, including reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy s website at duke-energy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Business Segments Duke Energy's segment structure includes three reportable business segments: Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, Gas Utilities and Infrastructure and Commercial Renewables. The remainder of Duke Energy s operations is presented as Other. Duke Energy's chief operating decision-maker routinely reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate the performance of the business. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Business Segments. The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy s business segments, as well as Other. ELECTRIC UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE Electric Utilities and Infrastructure conducts operations primarily through the regulated public utilities of Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure provides retail electric service through the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 8.2 million customers within the Southeast and Midwest regions of the U.S. The service territory is approximately 91,000 square miles across six states with a total estimated population of 26 million. The operations include electricity sold wholesale to municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load-serving entities. During 2021, Duke Energy executed an agreement providing for an investment by an affiliate of GIC in Duke Energy Indiana in exchange for a 19.9% minority interest issued by Duke Energy Holdco, LLC, the holding company for Duke Energy Indiana. The transaction will be completed following two closings. The first closing occurred on September 8, 2021, and resulted in Duke Energy Indiana Holdco, LLC issuing 11.05% of its membership interest to the affiliate of GIC. The second closing is expected to occur no later than January 2023. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," for additional information. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure is also a joint owner in certain electric transmission projects. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has a 50% ownership interest in DATC, a partnership with American Transmission Company, formed to design, build and operate transmission infrastructure. DATC owns 72% of the transmission service rights to Path 15, an 84-mile transmission line in central California. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure also has a 50% ownership interest in Pioneer, which builds, owns and operates electric transmission facilities in North America. The following map shows the service territory for Electric Utilities and Infrastructure as of December 31, 2021. 9 BUSINESS The electric operations and investments in projects are subject to the rules and regulations of the FERC, the NRC, the NCUC, the PSCSC, the FPSC, the IURC, the PUCO and the KPSC. The following table represents the distribution of GWh billed sales by customer class for the year ended December 31, 2021. Duke Duke Duke Duke Duke Energy Energy Energy Energy Energy Carolinas Progress Florida Ohio Indiana Residential 33 % 28 % 49 % 38 % 30 % General service 32 % 22 % 35 % 37 % 25 % Industrial 24 % 14 % 8 % 23 % 31 % Total retail sales 89 % 64 % 92 % 98 % 86 % Wholesale and other sales 11 % 36 % 8 % 2 % 14 % Total sales 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % The number of residential and general service customers within the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure service territory is expected to increase over time. Sales growth is expected within the service territory but continues to be impacted by adoption of energy efficiencies and self-generation. Residential sales increased in 2021 compared to 2020 due to customer growth and the introduction of a hybrid work environment in response to multiple waves of COVID-19 during 2021. Meanwhile, sales for general service and industrial customers recovered in 2021 from temporary closings and ramp backs experienced in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Over the longer time frame, it is still expected that the continued adoption of more efficient housing and appliances will have a negative impact on average usage per residential customer over time. Seasonality and the Impact of Weather Revenues and costs are influenced by seasonal weather patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, which results in higher revenue and cash flows during these periods. By contrast, lower sales of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance. Residential and general service customers are more impacted by weather than industrial customers. Estimated weather impacts are based on actual current period weather compared to normal weather conditions. Normal weather conditions are defined as the long-term average of actual historical weather conditions. The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the temperature variances from a normal condition and customers historic usage patterns. The methodology used to estimate the impact of weather does not consider all variables that may impact customer response to weather conditions such as humidity in the summer or wind chill in the winter. The precision of this estimate may also be impacted by applying long-term weather trends to shorter-term periods. 10 BUSINESS Heating degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature falls below a base temperature. Cooling degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature rises above the base temperature. Each degree of temperature below the base temperature counts as one heating degree day and each degree of temperature above the base temperature counts as one cooling degree day. Competition Retail Electric Utilities and Infrastructure s businesses operate as the sole supplier of electricity within their service territories, with the exception of Ohio, which has a competitive electricity supply market for generation service. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure owns and operates facilities necessary to generate, transmit, distribute and sell electricity. Services are priced by state commission-approved rates designed to include the costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital. This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable electricity at fair prices. In Ohio, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure conducts competitive auctions for electricity supply. The cost of energy purchased through these auctions is recovered from retail customers. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure earns retail margin in Ohio on the transmission and distribution of electricity, but not on the cost of the underlying energy. Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is primarily from the development and deployment of alternative energy sources including on-site generation from industrial customers and distributed generation, such as private solar, at residential, general service and/or industrial customer sites. Wholesale Duke Energy competes with other utilities and merchant generators for bulk power sales, sales to municipalities and cooperatives and wholesale transactions under primarily cost-based contracts approved by FERC. The principal factors in competing for these sales are availability of capacity and power, reliability of service and price. Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and fuel costs. Increased competition in the wholesale electric utility industry and the availability of transmission access could affect Electric Utilities and Infrastructure s load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Wholesale energy sales will be impacted by the extent to which additional generation is available to sell to the wholesale market and the ability of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to attract new customers and to retain existing customers. Energy Capacity and Resources Electric Utilities and Infrastructure owns approximately 50,259 MW of generation capacity. For additional information on owned generation facilities, see Item 2, Properties. Energy and capacity are also supplied through contracts with other generators and purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to purchase power for its customers may include, but are not limited to, generating plant outages, extreme weather conditions, generation reliability, demand growth and price. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and energy and reliability of power supply. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure s generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve retail customers. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements. Sources of Electricity Electric Utilities and Infrastructure relies principally on natural gas, nuclear fuel and coal for its generation of electricity. The following table lists sources of electricity and fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2021. Cost of Delivered Fuel per Net Generation by Source Kilowatt-hour Generated (Cents) 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019 Natural gas and fuel oil (a) 31.8 % 31.3 % 29.2 % 3.89 2.55 2.96 Nuclear (a) 29.8 % 29.6 % 28.6 % 0.58 0.58 0.60 Coal (a) 18.2 % 18.1 % 21.6 % 2.84 2.99 3.08 All fuels (cost based on weighted average) (a) 79.8 % 79.0 % 79.4 % 2.42 1.91 2.14 Hydroelectric and solar (b) 1.5 % 1.9 % 1.2 % Total generation 81.3 % 80.9 % 80.6 % Purchased power and net interchange 18.7 % 19.1 % 19.4 % Total sources of energy 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (a) Statistics related to all fuels reflect Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's public utility ownership interest in jointly owned generation facilities. (b) Generating figures are net of output required to replenish pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods. 11 BUSINESS Natural Gas and Fuel Oil Natural gas and fuel oil supply, transportation and storage for Electric Utilities and Infrastructure s generation fleet is purchased under standard industry agreements from various suppliers, including Piedmont. Natural gas supply agreements typically provide for a percentage of forecasted burns being procured over time, with varied expiration dates. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes it has access to an adequate supply of natural gas and fuel oil for the reasonably foreseeable future. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has certain dual-fuel generating facilities that can operate utilizing both natural gas and fuel oil. The cost of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure s natural gas and fuel oil is fixed price or determined by published market prices as reported in certain industry publications, plus any transportation and freight costs. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida and Duke Energy Indiana use derivative instruments to manage a portion of their exposure to price fluctuations for natural gas. For Duke Energy Florida, there is currently an agreed-upon moratorium with the FPSC on future hedging of natural gas prices. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has firm interstate and intrastate natural gas transportation agreements and storage agreements in place to support generation needed for load requirements. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure may purchase additional shorter-term natural gas transportation and utilize natural gas interruptible transportation agreements to support generation needed for load requirements. The Electric Utilities and Infrastructure natural gas plants are served by various supply zones and multiple pipelines. Nuclear The industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates and services to convert, enrich and fabricate fuel assemblies. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel its nuclear reactors. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of long-term supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country of origin and pricing. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure staggers its contracting so that its portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements in the near term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time thereafter. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have been and are expected to be fulfilled with spot market purchases. Due to the technical complexities of changing suppliers of fuel fabrication services, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure generally source these services to a single domestic supplier on a plant-by-plant basis using multiyear contracts. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has entered into fuel contracts that cover 100% of its uranium concentrates and conversion services through at least 2022, 100% of its enrichment services through at least 2023, and 100% of its fabrication services requirements for these plants through at least 2027. For future requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes it will be able to renew contracts as they expire or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services. Coal Electric Utilities and Infrastructure meets its coal demand through a portfolio of long-term purchase contracts and short-term spot market purchase agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under long-term contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure uses spot market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by long-term contracts. Expiration dates for its long-term contracts, which may have various price adjustment provisions and market reopeners, range from 2022 to 2026 for Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress and 2022 to 2025 for Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has an adequate supply of coal under contract to meet its risk management guidelines regarding projected future consumption. As a result of volatility in natural gas prices and the associated impacts on coal-fired dispatch within the generation fleet, coal inventories will continue to fluctuate. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure continues to actively manage its portfolio and has worked with suppliers to obtain increased flexibility in its coal contracts. Coal purchased for the Carolinas is primarily produced from mines in Central Appalachia, Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Florida is primarily produced from mines in the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Kentucky is produced from mines along the Ohio River in Illinois, Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Coal purchased for Indiana is primarily produced in Indiana and Illinois. There are adequate domestic coal reserves to serve Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's coal generation needs through end of life. The current average sulfur content of coal purchased by Electric Utilities and Infrastructure is between 1.5% and 2% for Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress, between 2.5% and 3% for Duke Energy Florida and Duke Energy Indiana, and between 3% and 3.5% for Duke Energy Ohio. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's environmental controls, in combination with the use of sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) emission allowances, enable Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to satisfy current SO 2 emission limitations for its existing facilities. Purchased Power Electric Utilities and Infrastructure purchases a portion of its capacity and system requirements through purchase obligations, leases and purchase capacity contracts. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes it can obtain adequate purchased power capacity to meet future system load needs. However, during periods of high demand, the price and availability of purchased power may be significantly affected. The following table summarizes purchased power for the previous three years: 2021 2020 2019 Purchase obligations and leases (in millions of MWh) (a) 36 32.7 34.8 Purchase capacity under contract (in MW) (b) 4,259 4,716 4,238 (a) Represents approximately 14% of total system requirements for 2021, 13% for 2020 and 14% for 2019. (b) For 2021, 2020 and 2019, these agreements include approximately 412 MW of firm capacity under contract by Duke Energy Florida with QFs. 12 BUSINESS Inventory Electric Utilities and Infrastructure must maintain an adequate stock of fuel and materials and supplies in order to ensure continuous operation of generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2021, the inventory balance for Electric Utilities and Infrastructure was approximately $3 billion. For additional information on inventory, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Ash Basin Management During 2015, EPA issued regulations related to the management of CCR from power plants. These regulations classify CCR as nonhazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and apply to electric generating sites with new and existing landfills and new and existing surface impoundments and establish requirements regarding landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring, protection and remedial procedures and other operational and reporting procedures for the disposal and management of CCR. In addition to the federal regulations, CCR landfills and surface impoundments (ash basins or impoundments) will continue to be regulated by existing state laws, regulations and permits, such as the North Carolina Coal Ash Management Act of 2014 (Coal Ash Act). Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has and will periodically submit to applicable authorities required site-specific coal ash impoundment remediation or closure plans. Closure plans must be approved and all associated permits issued before any work can begin. Closure activities have begun in all of Duke Energy's jurisdictions. Excavation began in 2015 at the four sites specified as high priority by the Coal Ash Act and at the W.S. Lee Steam Station site in South Carolina in connection with other legal requirements. Excavation at these sites involves movement of CCR materials to appropriate engineered off-site or on-site lined landfills or for reuse in an approved beneficial application. Duke Energy has completed excavation of coal ash at three of the four high-priority North Carolina sites. At other sites where CCR management is required, planning and closure methods have been studied and factored into the estimated retirement and management costs, and closure activities have commenced. The EPA CCR rule and the Coal Ash Act leave the decision on cost recovery determinations related to closure of coal ash surface impoundments to the normal ratemaking processes before utility regulatory commissions. Duke Energy's electric utilities have included compliance costs associated with federal and state requirements in their respective rate proceedings. During 2017, Duke Energy Carolinas' and Duke Energy Progress wholesale contracts were amended to include the recovery of expenditures related to AROs for the closure of coal ash basins. The amended contracts have retail disallowance parity or provisions limiting challenges to CCR cost recovery actions at FERC. FERC approved the amended wholesale rate schedules in 2017. For additional information on the ash basins and recovery, see Item 7, "Other Matters" and Notes 3, 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," "Commitments and Contingencies" and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively. Nuclear Matters Duke Energy owns, wholly or partially, 11 operating nuclear reactors located at six operating stations. The Crystal River Unit 3 permanently ceased operation in February 2013. Nuclear insurance includes: nuclear liability coverage; property damage coverage; nuclear accident decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and accidental outage coverage for losses in the event of a major accidental outage. Joint owners reimburse Duke Energy for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance in accordance with joint owner agreements. The Price-Anderson Act requires plant owners to provide for public nuclear liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the maximum total financial protection liability, which is approximately $13.5 billion. For additional information on nuclear insurance, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Commitments and Contingencies. Duke Energy has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and decommission and decontaminate each plant safely. The NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC require Duke Energy to update their cost estimates for decommissioning their nuclear plants every five years. The following table summarizes the fair value of NDTF investments and the most recent site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies. Decommissioning costs are stated in 2018 or 2019 dollars, depending on the year of the cost study, and include costs to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination. NDTF (a) Decommissioning (in millions) December 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Costs (a) Year of Cost Study Duke Energy $ 10,401 $ 9,114 $ 9,105 2018 or 2019 Duke Energy Carolinas (b)(c) 5,759 4,977 4,365 2018 Duke Energy Progress (d) 4,089 3,500 4,181 2019 Duke Energy Florida (e) 553 637 559 N/A (a) Amounts for Progress Energy equal the sum of Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida. (b) Decommissioning cost for Duke Energy Carolinas reflects its ownership interest in jointly owned reactors. Other joint owners are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their interest in the reactors. (c) Duke Energy Carolinas' site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost study completed in 2018 was filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in 2019. A new funding study was also completed and filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in 2019. (d) Duke Energy Progress' site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost study completed in 2019 was filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in March 2020. Duke Energy Progress also completed a funding study, which was filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in July 2020. (e) During 2019, Duke Energy Florida reached an agreement to transfer decommissioning work for Crystal River Unit 3 to a third party and decommissioning costs are based on the agreement with this third party rather than a cost study. Regulatory approval was received from the NRC and the FPSC in April 2020 and August 2020, respectively. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters, for more information. 13 BUSINESS The NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC and FERC have allowed Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail and wholesale rates over the expected remaining service periods of their nuclear stations. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with the existing fund balances and expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning. For additional information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Asset Retirement Obligations. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (as amended) provides the framework for development by the federal government of interim storage and permanent disposal facilities for high-level radioactive waste materials. The government has not yet developed a storage facility or disposal capacity, so Electric Utilities and Infrastructure will continue to store spent fuel on its reactor sites. Under federal law, the DOE is responsible for the selection and construction of a facility for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. The DOE terminated the project to license and develop a geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada in 2010, and is currently taking no action to fulfill its responsibilities to dispose of spent fuel. Until the DOE begins to accept the spent nuclear fuel, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida will continue to safely manage their spent nuclear fuel. Under current regulatory guidelines, Harris has sufficient storage capacity in its spent fuel pools through the expiration of its renewed operating license. With certain modifications and approvals by the NRC to expand the on-site dry cask storage facilities, spent nuclear fuel dry storage facilities will be sufficient to provide storage space of spent fuel through the expiration of the operating licenses, including any license renewals, for Brunswick, Catawba, McGuire, Oconee and Robinson. Crystal River Unit 3 ceased operation in 2013 and was placed in a SAFSTOR condition in January 2018. As of January 2018, all spent fuel at Crystal River Unit 3 has been transferred from the spent fuel pool to dry storage at an on-site independent spent fuel storage installation. During 2020, the NRC and the FPSC approved an agreement to transfer ownership of spent fuel for Crystal River Unit 3 to a third party. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters, for more information. The nuclear power industry faces uncertainties with respect to the cost and long-term availability of disposal sites for spent nuclear fuel and other radioactive waste, compliance with changing regulatory requirements, capital outlays for modifications and new plant construction. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of its nuclear generating facilities. The following table includes the current year of expiration of nuclear operating licenses for nuclear stations in operation. On June 7, 2021, Duke Energy Carolinas filed a subsequent license renewal application for the Oconee Nuclear Station (ONS) with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to renew ONS's operating license for an additional 20 years. Duke Energy has announced its intention to seek 20-year operating license renewals for each of the reactors it operates in Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters, for additional information. Unit Year of Expiration Duke Energy Carolinas Catawba Units 1 and 2 2043 McGuire Unit 1 2041 McGuire Unit 2 2043 Oconee Units 1 and 2 2033 Oconee Unit 3 2034 Duke Energy Progress Brunswick Unit 1 2036 Brunswick Unit 2 2034 Harris 2046 Robinson 2030 The NRC has acknowledged permanent cessation of operation and permanent removal of fuel from the reactor vessel at Crystal River Unit 3. Therefore, the license no longer authorizes operation of the reactor. For additional information on nuclear decommissioning activity, see Notes 3 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively. Regulation State The state electric utility commissions approve rates for Duke Energy's retail electric service within their respective states. The state electric utility commissions, to varying degrees, have authority over the construction and operation of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure s generating facilities. CPCNs issued by the state electric utility commissions, as applicable, authorize Electric Utilities and Infras