Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 54 Item 2. Properties 54 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 55 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 55 PART II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 56 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 56 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 57 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 77 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B. Other Information 78 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 78 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 79 Item 11. Executive Compensation 79 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 79 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 80 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 81 Exhibit Index 1 of 4 Signatures S-1 PART I Item 1. Business Unless otherwise indicated in this report "DaVita", "the Company" "we", "us", "our" and other similar terms refer to DaVita Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our website, located at http://www.davita.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov where these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. Overview of DaVita Inc. DaVita is a leading healthcare provider focused on transforming care delivery to improve quality of life for patients globally. We are one of the largest providers of kidney care services in the U.S. and have been a leader in clinical quality and innovation for over 20 years. DaVita is committed to bold, patient-centric care models, implementing the latest technologies and advancing integrated care offerings. Over the years, we have established a value-based culture with a philosophy of caring that is focused on both our patients and teammates. This culture and philosophy fuel our continuous drive toward achieving our mission "to be the provider, partner and employer of choice" and fulfilling our vision "to build the greatest healthcare community the world has ever seen". The loss of kidney function is normally irreversible. Kidney failure is typically caused by Type I and Type II diabetes, hypertension, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the kidneys and prolonged urinary tract obstruction. End stage renal disease or end stage kidney disease (ESRD or ESKD) is the stage of advanced kidney impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESKD generally require dialysis at least three times a week for the rest of their lives or until they receive a kidney transplant. Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services (U.S. dialysis) business treats patients with chronic kidney failure, ESRD or ESKD, in the United States, and is our largest line of business. As of December 31, 2021, we provided dialysis and administrative services and related laboratory services throughout the U.S. via a network of 2,815 outpatient dialysis centers and home programs in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 203,100 patients, and have contracts to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 850 hospitals. Our robust platform to deliver kidney care services also includes established nephrology and payor relationships. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, our international operations provided dialysis and administrative services to a total of 339 outpatient dialysis centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S., serving approximately 39,900 patients. Finally, our U.S ancillary services and strategic initiatives provided integrated care and disease management services to 16,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 7,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements as of December 31, 2021. Most of the patients served by our integrated care business are also our dialysis patients. We refer to our U.S. ancillary services and strategic initiatives and our international operations as, collectively, our "ancillary services". We also have a separate corporate administrative support function that supports our U.S. dialysis business and these ancillary services . Our patient-centric care model leverages our platform of kidney care services to maximize patient choice in both models and modalities of care. We believe that the flexibility we offer coupled with a focus on comprehensive kidney care supports our commitments to help improve clinical outcomes and quality of life for our patients. According to the most recently published data, for eight consecutive years, we are an industry leader in the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS) Quality Incentive Program (QIP), which promotes high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESKD. In addition, according to the most recently published data, for seven consecutive years, we are also an industry leader under CMS Five-Star Quality Rating system, which rates eligible dialysis centers based on the quality of outcomes to help patients, their families, and caregivers make more informed decisions about where patients receive care. According to the most recently collected data from Nephrology News and Issues, we are an industry leader for the total number of patients in home-based dialysis services. Our quality clinical outcomes are driven by our experienced and knowledgeable teammates. We employ registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, social workers, registered dietitians, biomedical technicians and other administrative and support teammates who strive to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our dialysis facilities. In addition to our teammates at our dialysis facilities, as of December 31, 2021, our domestic Chief Medical Officer lead a team of 24 senior nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our domestic Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO). Our international Chief Medical Officer lead a team of 11 senior nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our international OCMO as of December 31, 2021. Our OCMO teammates represent a variety of academic, 2 clinical practice, and clinical research backgrounds. We also have a Physician Council that serves as an advisory body to senior management, which was composed of eight physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice and seven Group Medical Directors as of December 31, 2021. On June 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our prior DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business, a patient and physician-focused integrated healthcare delivery and management company, to Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc. As a result, the DMG business has been classified as discontinued operations and its results of operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements included in this report. For financial information about DMG, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. COVID-19 and its impact on our business As a caregiving organization, we continue to be impacted by the effects of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. DaVita s caregiving teammates continue to be on the front lines of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic providing critical, life-sustaining care for our patients. We continue to closely monitor the impact on our business of the pandemic and the resulting economic and political environment, including the various impacts on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, vendors and business partners. During this time of great and continued challenge, our top priorities continue to be the health, safety and well-being of our patients, teammates and physician partners and helping to ensure that our patients have the ability to maintain continuity of care throughout this crisis, whether in the hospital, outpatient or home setting. To that end, we have dedicated and continue to dedicate substantial resources in response to COVID-19, including the implementation of additional protocols and initiatives to help safely maintain continuity of care for our patients and help protect our caregivers. We believe the ultimate impact of this public health crisis on the Company will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. For additional discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic and our response, including its impact on us and related risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion below under the heading " Human Capital Management ", the risk factor in