Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 47 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47 PART II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 48 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 51 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 68 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 69 Item 9B. Other Information 70 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 71 Item 11. Executive Compensation 71 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 71 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 72 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 73 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 73 Exhibit Index 1 of 5 Signatures S-1 PART I Item 1 . Business Unless otherwise indicated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K DaVita , the Company we , us , our and other similar terms refer to DaVita Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our website, located at http://www.davita.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov where these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. Overview of DaVita Inc. DaVita is a leading healthcare provider focused on transforming care delivery to improve quality of life for patients globally. Incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1994, we are one of the largest providers of kidney care services in the U.S. and have been a leader in clinical quality and innovation for over 20 years. DaVita is committed to bold, patient-centric care models, implementing the latest technologies and moving toward integrated care offerings. Over the years, we have established a value-based culture with a philosophy of caring that is focused on both our patients and teammates. This culture and philosophy fuel our continuous drive towards achieving our mission to be the provider, partner and employer of choice and fulfilling our vision to "build the greatest healthcare community the world has ever seen." The loss of kidney function is normally irreversible. Kidney failure is typically caused by Type I and Type II diabetes, hypertension, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the kidneys and prolonged urinary tract obstruction. End stage renal disease or end stage kidney disease (ESRD or ESKD) is the stage of advanced kidney impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESRD generally require dialysis at least three times a week for the rest of their lives. Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services (U.S. dialysis) business treats patients with chronic kidney failure and ESRD in the United States, and is our largest line of business. As of December 31, 2019 , we provided dialysis and administrative services and related laboratory services throughout the U.S. via a network of 2,753 outpatient dialysis centers in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 206,900 patients and provided acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 900 hospitals. Our robust platform to deliver kidney care services also includes established nephrology and payor relationships as well as home programs. In addition, as of December 31, 2019 , we provided dialysis and administrative services to a total of 259 outpatient dialysis centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S., serving approximately 28,700 patients. The Company also consists of our ancillary services and strategic initiatives, which include the aforementioned international operations (collectively, our ancillary services), as well as our corporate administrative support. Our patient-centric care model leverages our platform of kidney care services to maximize patient choice in both models and modalities of care. We believe that the flexibility we offer coupled with a focus on comprehensive kidney care supports our commitments to help improve clinical outcomes and quality of life for our patients. For the seventh consecutive year, we are an industry leader in the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS) Quality Incentive Program (QIP), which promotes high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESRD. We are also an industry leader for the sixth consecutive year under CMS Five-Star Quality Rating system, which rates eligible dialysis centers based on the quality of outcomes to help patients, their families, and caregivers make more informed decisions about where patients receive care. In addition, we are an industry leader for the total number of patients in home-based dialysis services. Our quality clinical outcomes are driven by our experienced and knowledgeable teammates. We employ registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, social workers, registered dietitians, biomedical technicians and other administrative and support teammates who strive to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our dialysis facilities. In addition to our teammates at our dialysis facilities, as of December 31, 2019 , our Chief Medical Officer leads a team of 15 senior nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO). This team represents a variety of academic, clinical practice, and clinical research backgrounds. We also have a Physician Counsel that serves as an advisory body to senior management, which is composed of nine physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice, as well as eight Group Medical Directors as of December 31, 2019 . On June 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business, a patient and physician-focused integrated healthcare delivery and management company, to Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC (Optum), a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc. As a result, the DMG business has been classified as discontinued operations and its results of 2 operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements included in this report. For financial information about DMG, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. U.S. dialysis business Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services for patients suffering from ESRD. As of December 31, 2019 , we provided dialysis and administrative services in the U.S. through a network of 2,753 outpatient dialysis centers in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 206,900 patients. We also provide acute inpatient dialysis services in approximately 900 hospitals and related laboratory services throughout the U.S. According to the United States Renal Data System (USRDS), there were over 523,000 ESRD dialysis patients in the U.S. in 2017 . Based on the most recent 2019 annual data report from the USRDS, the underlying ESRD dialysis patient population has grown at an approximate compound rate of 3.6% from 2007 to 2017 and a compound rate of 3.3% from 2012 to 2017 , which suggests that the rate of growth of the ESRD patient population is declining. A number of factors may impact ESRD growth rates, including, among others, the aging of the U.S. population, transplant rates, incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and hypertension, mortality rates for dialysis patients and growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of ESRD. Since 1972, the federal government has provided healthcare coverage for ESRD patients under the Medicare ESRD program regardless of age or financial circumstances. ESRD is the first and only disease state eligible for Medicare coverage both for dialysis and dialysis-related services and for all benefits available under the Medicare program. For patients with Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled payment rate. See page 5 for further details. Although Medicare reimbursement limits the allowable charge per treatment, it provides industry participants with a relatively predictable and recurring revenue stream for dialysis services provided to patients without commercial insurance. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , approximately 90% of our total dialysis patients were covered under some form of government-based program, with approximately 74% of our dialysis patients covered under Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans. Treatment options for ESRD Treatment options for ESRD are dialysis and kidney transplantation. Dialysis options Hemodialysis Hemodialysis, the most common form of ESRD treatment, is usually performed at a freestanding outpatient dialysis center, at a hospital-based outpatient center, or at the patient s home. The hemodialysis machine uses an artificial kidney, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient s blood. The dialysis process occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers. While blood is circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed fluid is circulated through the other chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return back into the patient s body. Each hemodialysis treatment that occurs in the outpatient dialysis centers typically lasts approximately three and one-half hours and is usually performed three times per week. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure primarily resulting from trauma, patients in early stages of ESRD and ESRD patients who require hospitalization for other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is generally performed at the patient s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Some ESRD patients who are healthier and more independent may perform home hemodialysis in their home or residence through the use of a hemodialysis machine designed specifically for home therapy that is portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, usually in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with their home hemodialysis treatment. Home hemodialysis is typically performed with greater frequency than dialysis treatments performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules. Peritoneal dialysis Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient s peritoneal or abdominal cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins and is typically performed at home. The most common methods of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) 3 and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). Because it does not involve going to an outpatient dialysis center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is generally an alternative to hemodialysis for patients who are healthier, more independent and desire more flexibility in their lifestyle. CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient s peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in the blood continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day. CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a mechanical device to cycle dialysis solution through the patient s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest. Kidney transplantation Although kidney transplantation, when successful, is generally the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of suitable donors, side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations have generally limited the use of this treatment option. An executive order signed in July 2019 (the 2019 Executive Order) directed the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop policies addressing, among other things, the goal of making more kidneys available for transplant. As directed by the 2019 Executive Order, the CMS, through its Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI), subsequently released the framework for certain proposed voluntary payment models that would adjust payment incentives to encourage kidney transplants. For more information regarding the 2019 Executive Order and these payment models, please see the discussion below under the heading - New models of care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms . U.S. dialysis services we provide Outpatient hemodialysis services As of December 31, 2019 , we operated or provided administrative services through a network of 2,753 outpatient dialysis centers in the U.S. that are designed specifically for outpatient hemodialysis. In 2019 , our overall network of U.S. outpatient dialysis centers increased by 89 primarily as a result of the opening of new dialysis centers and acquisitions, net of center closures, representing a total increase of approximately 3.3% from 2018 . As a condition of our enrollment in Medicare for the provision of dialysis services, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of associated nephrologists to provide medical director services at each of our dialysis centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply for practice privileges to treat their patients at our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center typically consists of registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel. Under Medicare regulations, we cannot promote, develop or maintain any kind of contractual relationship with our patients that would directly or indirectly obligate a patient to use or continue to use our dialysis services, or that would give us any preferential rights other than those related to collecting payments for our dialysis services. Our total patient turnover, which is based upon all causes, averaged approximately 24% in both 2019 and 2018 . However, in 2019 , the overall number of patients to whom we provided services in the U.S. increased by approximately 2.1% from 2018 , primarily from the opening of new dialysis centers and acquisitions, and continued growth within the industry. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services As of December 31, 2019 , we provided hospital inpatient hemodialysis services, excluding physician services, to patients in approximately 900 hospitals throughout the U.S. We render these services based on a contracted per-treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services, we typically administer the dialysis treatment at the patient s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Home-based dialysis services Home-based dialysis services includes home hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer certain support services for dialysis patients who prefer and are able to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in their homes. Home-based hemodialysis support services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support services and follow-up assistance. Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. The 2019 Executive Order and related HHS guidance described above also included a stated goal of increasing the relative number of new ESRD patients that receive dialysis at home as compared to those receiving dialysis in center or at a hospital. 4 According to the most recent 2019 annual data report from the USRDS, in 2017 approximately 12% of ESRD dialysis patients in the U.S. perform home-based dialysis. The following graph summarizes our U.S. dialysis treatments by modality and U.S. dialysis patient services revenues by modality for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Treatments and revenues by modality: Other ESRD laboratory services We operate one separately licensed and highly automated clinical laboratory which specializes in ESRD patient testing. This specialized laboratory provides routine laboratory tests for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESRD patients which are integral components of the overall dialysis services that we provide. Our laboratory provides these tests predominantly for our network of ESRD patients throughout the U.S. These tests are performed to monitor a patient s ESRD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other medical conditions of the patient. Our laboratory utilizes information systems which provide information to certain members of the dialysis centers staff and medical directors regarding critical outcome indicators. Management services We currently operate or provide management and administrative services pursuant to management and administrative services agreements to 44 outpatient dialysis centers located in the U.S. in which we either own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the outpatient dialysis centers. Sources of revenue concentrations and risks Our U.S. dialysis revenues represent approximately 92% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Our U.S. dialysis revenues are derived primarily from our core business of providing dialysis services and related laboratory services and, to a lesser extent, the administration of pharmaceuticals and management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis centers, as discussed above. The sources of our U.S. dialysis revenues are principally from government-based programs, including Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans and Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans and commercial insurance plans. Our largest source of revenue is from Medicare and Medicare-assigned plans which accounted for 59% of our overall U.S. dialysis patient services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Other sources of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 , were from commercial payors (including hospital dialysis services) accounting for 31% of revenues, Medicaid and Managed Medicaid plans accounting for 6% of our revenues and other government programs accounting for 4% of our revenues. Medicare revenue Government dialysis related payment rates in the U.S. are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For patients with Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled payment rate which provides a fixed payment rate to encompass all goods and services provided during the dialysis treatment that are related to the dialysis treatment, including certain pharmaceuticals, such as Epogen (EPO), vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, irrespective of the level of pharmaceuticals administered to the patient or additional services performed except for calcimimetics, a drug class taken by many patients with ESRD to treat mineral bone disorder. As of 5 January 1, 2018, calcimimetics became part of the Medicare Part B ESRD payment, subject to a transitional drug add-on payment adjustment (TDAPA). Most lab services are also included in the bundled payment. Under the ESRD Prospective Payment System (PPS), the bundled payments to a dialysis facility may be reduced by as much as 2% based on the facility s performance in specified quality measures set annually by CMS through its Quality Incentive Program (QIP). CMS established QIP through the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 to promote high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESRD. QIP associates a portion of Medicare reimbursement directly with a facility s performance on quality of care measures. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement result when a facility s overall score on applicable measures does not meet established standards. The bundled payment rate is also adjusted for certain patient characteristics, a geographic usage index and certain other factors. Uncertainty about future payment rates remains a material risk to our business, as well as the potential implementation of or changes in coverage determinations or other rules or regulations by CMS or Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs) that may impact reimbursement. An important provision in the Medicare ESRD statute is an annual adjustment, or market basket update, to the ESRD PPS base rate. Absent action by Congress, the ESRD PPS base rate is automatically updated annually by a formulaic inflation adjustment. In November 2019, CMS issued a final rule to update the Medicare ESRD PPS payment rate and policies. Among other things, the final rule expands the transitional drug add-on payment to certain new renal dialysis drugs and biological products and amends the reporting measures in the ESRD QIP. CMS estimates the overall impact of the final rule will increase Medicare reimbursement to ESRD facilities by 1.7% in 2020 . As a result of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and subsequent activity in Congress, a $1.2 trillion sequester (across-the-board spending cuts) in discretionary programs took effect in 2013 reducing Medicare payments by 2%, which was subsequently extended through fiscal year 2027. These across-the-board spending cuts have affected and will continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Although the Bipartisan Budget Act (BBA) of 2018 passed in February 2018 enacted a two-year federal spending agreement and raised the federal spending cap on non-defense spending for fiscal years 2018 and 2019, the Medicare program is frequently mentioned as a target for spending cuts. ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their age or disability status, as well as whether they are covered by a commercial insurance plan. Generally, for a patient not covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare becomes the primary payor for ESRD patients receiving dialysis services either immediately or after a three-month waiting period. For a patient covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes the three-month waiting period, or earlier if the patient s commercial insurance plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rates we receive for that patient shift from the commercial insurance plan rates to Medicare payment rates, which are on average significantly lower than commercial insurance rates. Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system for each covered dialysis treatment. The patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In most cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients who do not qualify for Medicaid, but otherwise cannot afford secondary insurance in the form of a Medicare Supplement Plan, can apply for premium payment assistance from charitable organizations to obtain secondary coverage. If a patient does not have secondary insurance coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the remaining 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare does not pay. However, we are able to recover some portion of this unpaid patient balance from Medicare through an established cost reporting process by identifying these Medicare bad debts on each center s Medicare cost report. In recent years, federal legislative and executive action has been focused on developing new models of kidney care for Medicare beneficiaries. For example, CMMI is working with various healthcare providers to develop, refine and implement Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) and other innovative models of care for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, including ACOs, the Comprehensive ESRD Care (CEC) Model (which includes the development of ESRD Seamless Care Organizations (ESCOs)) and the Duals Demonstration. In addition, federal bipartisan legislation related to full capitation demonstration for ESRD was proposed in late 2017. Legislation, which has yet to secure introduction to the 116th Congress, would build on prior coordinated care models, such as the CEC Model, and would establish a demonstration program for the provision of integrated care to Medicare ESRD patients. More recently, the 2019 Executive Order directed CMS to create payment models to evaluate the effects of creating payment incentives for the greater use of home dialysis and kidney transplants for those already on dialysis. For additional detail on these and other developments in models of care, see the discussion below under the heading New models of care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms . 6 Medicaid revenue Medicaid programs are state-administered programs partially funded by the federal government. These programs are intended to provide health coverage for patients whose income and assets fall below state-defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured. These programs also serve as supplemental insurance programs for co-insurance payments due from Medicaid-eligible patients with primary coverage under the Medicare program. Some Medicaid programs also pay for additional services, including some oral medications that are not covered by Medicare. We are enrolled in the Medicaid programs in the states in which we conduct our business. Commercial revenue Before a patient becomes eligible to elect to have Medicare as their primary payor for dialysis services, a patient s commercial insurance plan, if any, is generally responsible for payment of such dialysis services for up to the first 33 months, as discussed above. Although commercial payment rates vary, average commercial payment rates established under commercial contracts are generally significantly higher than Medicare rates. The payments we receive from commercial payors generate nearly all of our profits and all of our nonacute dialysis profits come from commercial payors. Payment methods from commercial payors can include a single lump-sum per treatment, referred to as bundled rates, or in other cases separate payments for dialysis treatments and pharmaceuticals, if used as part of the treatment, referred to as FFS rates. Commercial payment rates are the result of negotiations between us and insurers or third-party administrators. Our out-of-network payment rates are on average higher than in-network commercial contract payment rates. Some of our commercial contracts pay us under a single bundled payment rate for all dialysis services provided to covered patients. However, some of our commercial contracts also pay us for certain other services and pharmaceuticals in addition to the bundled payment. Our commercial contracts typically contain annual price escalator provisions. Approximately 25% of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues and approximately 10% of our U.S. dialysis patients are associated with non-acute commercial payors for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Non-acute commercial patients as a percentage of our total U.S. dialysis patients for 2019 were relatively flat compared to 2018 . Less than 1% of our U.S. dialysis revenues are due directly from patients. There is no single commercial payor that accounted for more than 10% of total U.S. dialysis revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 . See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for disclosure on our concentration related to our commercial payors on a total consolidated revenue basis. Both the number of our patients under commercial plans and the rates under these commercial plans are subject to change based on a number of factors. These factors include, among others, a highly competitive rate environment that shapes our ongoing negotiations with commercial payors; changes in commercial plan design; and the health of the U.S. economy. In addition, changes in state and federal legislation, regulations, rules, laws, guidance or other requirements may impact the availability and scope of commercial insurance, including, among others, developments that impact the healthcare exchanges introduced by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Affordable C