Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 53 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 53 Item 2. Properties 56 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 56 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 56 PART II. Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 57 Item 6. Reserved 57 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 58 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 77 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 78 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B. Other Information 78 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 78 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 79 Item 11. Executive Compensation 79 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 79 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 80 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 81 Exhibit Index 1 of 4 Signatures S-1 PART I Item 1. Business Unless otherwise indicated in this report "DaVita", "the Company" "we", "us", "our" and other similar terms refer to DaVita Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our website, located at http://www.davita.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov where these reports and other information about us can be obtained. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. Overview of DaVita Inc. DaVita is a leading healthcare provider focused on transforming care delivery to improve quality of life for patients globally. We are one of the largest providers of kidney care services in the U.S. and have been a leader in clinical quality and innovation for more than 20 years. We care for our patients at every stage and setting along their kidney health journey including earlier diagnosis and prevention, supporting the transplant process, helping with end of life and ensuring they are supported at home, in our dialysis centers, in the hospital and/or skilled nursing facilities and at the end of life. We are committed to bold, patient-centric care models, implementing the latest technologies and advancing integrated care offerings. In our unwavering pursuit of a healthier tomorrow, we have established a value-based culture with a philosophy of caring that is focused on both our patients and teammates. This culture and philosophy fuel our continuous drive toward achieving our mission to be the provider, partner and employer of choice. There are five stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD). These stages are generally based on how well the kidneys work to filter waste and extra fluid out of the blood with higher stages of CKD corresponding to progressing levels of kidney disease. Stage 1 CKD is the closest to healthy kidney function. Stage 5 classification indicates that a patient has severe kidney damage. A patient diagnosed with Stage 5 CKD has kidneys that have lost nearly all functionality or have failed. If the patient's kidneys fail, they are then diagnosed with end stage renal disease (ESRD), also known as end stage kidney disease (ESKD). Because loss of kidney function is normally irreversible, ESKD patients require continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESKD generally require regular life-sustaining dialysis therapy for the rest of their lives or until they receive a kidney transplant. The treatment goal for CKD patients prior to Stage 5 is to manage and slow the progression of the disease to preserve kidney functionality. Because kidney failure is typically caused by one or more comorbidities such as Type I and Type II diabetes, hypertension, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the kidneys or prolonged urinary tract obstruction, slowing the progression generally involves working with nephrologists or dieticians to help control blood pressure, monitor blood glucose and maintain healthy diet and exercise routines, among other things. If the kidney disease continues to progress, the goal is to safely transition the patient to the dialysis treatment of their choice. Our businesses We are one of the two largest dialysis providers in the United States. Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services (U.S. dialysis) business treats patients with chronic kidney failure, ESKD, in the United States, and is our largest line of business. Our robust platform to deliver kidney care services also includes established nephrology and payor relationships. In addition, as of December 31, 2023, our international operations provided dialysis and administrative services to a total of 367 outpatient dialysis centers located in 11 countries outside of the U.S., serving approximately 49,400 patients. Finally, our U.S. integrated kidney care (IKC) business provided integrated care and disease management services to 58,000 patients in risk-based integrated care arrangements and to an additional 17,000 patients in other integrated care arrangements across the United States as of December 31, 2023. We also maintain a few other ancillary services and investments outside of our U.S. dialysis, U.S. IKC, or international operations, which we refer to as our U.S. other ancillary services. We refer to our U.S. integrated kidney care business, U.S. other ancillary services and international operations as, collectively, our "ancillary services." We also have a separate corporate administrative support function that supports our U.S. dialysis business and these ancillary services . Each of our businesses are described in greater detail in the sections that follow. 2 Our care model Our patient-centric care model leverages our platform of kidney care services to maximize patient choice in both models and modalities of care. We believe that the flexibility we offer coupled with a focus on comprehensive kidney care supports our commitments to help improve equitable clinical outcomes and quality of life for our patients. According to the most recently published data, for the nine most recently reported years, we have continued as an industry leader in the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS) Quality Incentive Program (QIP), which promotes high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESKD. In addition, according to the most recently published data, for the eight most recently reported years, we have also continued as an industry leader under CMS Five-Star Quality Rating system, which rates eligible dialysis centers based on the quality of outcomes to help patients, their families, and caregivers make more informed decisions about where patients receive care. We have seen strong results from our participation in the ESRD Treatment Choices (ETC) Model, which was launched by the CMS Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI) in January 2021 with the stated intent to "encourage greater use of home dialysis and kidney transplants for Medicare beneficiaries with ESKD, while reducing Medicare expenditures and preserving or enhancing the quality of care furnished to beneficiaries with ESKD." Our quality clinical outcomes are driven by our experienced and knowledgeable caregivers. We employ registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, social workers, registered dietitians, biomedical technicians and other administrative and support teammates who strive to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our dialysis facilities. In addition to our teammates at our dialysis facilities, as of December 31, 2023, our domestic Chief Medical Officer leads a team of 22 nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our domestic Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO). Our international Chief Medical Officer leads a team of nine nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our international OCMO as of December 31, 2023. Our OCMO teammates represent a variety of academic, clinical practice, and clinical research backgrounds. We also have a Physician Council that serves as an advisory body to senior management, which was composed of 10 physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice and five Group Medical Directors as of December 31, 2023. Value-based care arrangements are proliferating in the kidney health space. These arrangements are fostering a much larger degree of collaboration between nephrologists, providers, and transplant programs, resulting in a more complete understanding of each patient s clinical needs. We believe this more complete understanding allows for better care coordination and earlier intervention, which we believe ultimately leads to improved clinical outcomes, lower overall costs and improved patient experiences. Our IKC business provides comprehensive care management for complex chronic kidney disease patients nationwide, with payment models that include a variety of structures to advance and encourage integrated and value-based care. Among other arrangements, our IKC business has percent-of-premium arrangements in several Medicare Advantage ESRD Chronic Special Needs Plans and is an active participant in CMMI s Comprehensive Kidney Care Contracting (CKCC) model that seeks to manage the care of late stage CKD and ESKD patients to delay the progression of kidney disease, promote home dialysis, and incentivize transplants. Our IKC business also utilizes other value-based payment methodologies in its care coordination and disease management contracts, which include two-sided shared savings/shared losses and outcomes-based pay-for-performance compensation arrangements. U.S. dialysis business Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services for patients suffering from ESKD. As of December 31, 2023, we provided dialysis, administrative and related laboratory services in the U.S. through a network of 2,675 outpatient dialysis centers in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 200,800 patients. We also have contracts to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 790 hospitals throughout the U.S. According to the United States Renal Data System (USRDS), there were over 556,000 ESKD dialysis patients in the U.S. in 2021. Based on the most recent 2023 annual data report from the USRDS, the underlying ESKD dialysis patient population grew at an approximate compound annual rate of 3.3% from 2011 to 2021 and 3.4% from 2016 to 2021 as compared to a decline in compound annual growth of 1.1% from 2020 to 2021, which suggests that the rate of growth of the ESKD patient population is declining relative to long term trends. As the USRDS report presents data through December 31, 2021, it reflects the initial compounding impact of COVID-19 on this patient base. In general, a number of factors may impact ESKD growth rates, including, among others, mortality rates for dialysis patients or CKD patients, the aging of the U.S. population, transplant rates, incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and hypertension, growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of ESKD or other changes in demand for dialysis treatments over time, including for example, as a result of the development and application of certain innovative technologies, drugs or other treatments. Certain of these factors, in particular mortality rates for dialysis or CKD patients, have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 3 Treatment options for ESKD Treatment options for ESKD are dialysis and kidney transplantation. Dialysis options Hemodialysis Hemodialysis is the most common form of ESKD treatment. The hemodialysis machine uses a filter, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient s blood. The dialysis process occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers. While blood is circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed fluid is circulated through the other chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return back into the patient s body. Hemodialysis is usually performed at a freestanding outpatient dialysis center, at a hospital-based outpatient center, in a skilled nursing facility or at the patient's home. Our freestanding outpatient dialysis centers are staffed with members of our care team and store the supplies necessary for treatment. Treatments are usually performed three times per week. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure primarily resulting from trauma, patients in early stages of ESKD and ESKD patients who require hospitalization for other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is generally performed at the patient s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Some ESKD patients may perform hemodialysis with the help of a care partner in their home or residence through the use of a hemodialysis machine designed specifically for home therapy that is portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, usually in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with their home hemodialysis treatment. Home hemodialysis is typically performed with greater frequency than dialysis treatments performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules. Peritoneal dialysis Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient s peritoneal or abdominal cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins and is typically performed at home. The most common methods of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). Because it does not involve going to an outpatient dialysis center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is generally an alternative to hemodialysis for patients who are healthier, more independent and desire more flexibility in their lifestyle. CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient s peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in the blood continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day. CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a mechanical device to cycle dialysis solution through the patient s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest. Kidney transplantation Although kidney transplantation, when successful, is considered the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of suitable donors, side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations have generally limited the use of this treatment option. In accordance with an executive order signed in July 2019 (the 2019 Executive Order), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) developed policies addressing, among other things, the goal of making more kidneys available for transplant. CMS, through CMMI, also subsequently released the framework for certain proposed and existing voluntary and mandatory payment models, including ETC described above, which would adjust payment incentives to encourage kidney transplants. For more information about these payment models, please see the discussion below under the heading " Integrated Kidney Care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms ." U.S. dialysis services we provide Outpatient hemodialysis services As a condition of our enrollment in Medicare for the provision of dialysis services, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of associated nephrologists to provide medical director services at each of our dialysis centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply for practice privileges to treat their patients at our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center typically consists 4 of registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel. Our total patient turnover at centers we consolidate, which is based upon all causes, averaged approximately 26% in 2023 and 27% in 2022. The overall number of patients to whom we provided services in the U.S. in 2023 increased by approximately 0.7% from 2022, primarily due to growth in new admits as well as a decrease in mortality rates, which had been impacted throughout the course of the COVID-19 pandemic. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services As of December 31, 2023, we have contracts to provide hospital inpatient dialysis services to patients in approximately 790 hospitals throughout the U.S. We render these services based on a contracted per-treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services, we typically administer the dialysis treatment at the patient s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed. Home-based dialysis services Home-based dialysis services includes home hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer certain support services for dialysis patients who prefer and are able to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in their homes. Home-based hemodialysis support services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support services and follow-up assistance. Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. The 2019 Executive Order and related HHS guidance described above also included a stated goal of increasing the relative number of new ESKD patients that receive dialysis at home. According to the most recent 2023 annual data report from the USRDS, in 2021 approximately 15% of ESKD dialysis patients in the U.S. performed home-based dialysis. Treatments and revenues by modality: The following graph summarizes our U.S. dialysis treatments by modality and U.S. dialysis patient service revenues by modality for the year ended December 31, 2023. Other ESKD laboratory services We operate a separately licensed and highly automated clinical laboratory which specializes in ESKD patient testing. This specialized laboratory provides routine laboratory tests for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESKD patients. The vast majority of these tests are performed for our ESKD patients throughout the U.S. These tests are performed for a variety of reasons, including to monitor a patient s ESKD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other medical conditions of the patient. Our laboratory utilizes information systems which provide information to certain members of the dialysis centers staff and medical directors regarding critical outcome indicators. Management services We currently operate or provide management and administrative services pursuant to management and administrative services agreements to 59 outpatient dialysis centers located in the U.S. in which we either own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the outpatient dialysis centers. 5 Sources of revenue concentrations and risks Our U.S. dialysis revenues represent approximately 89% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023. Our U.S. dialysis revenues are derived primarily from our core business of providing dialysis services and related laboratory services and, to a lesser extent, the administration of pharmaceuticals and management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis centers, as discussed above. The sources of our U.S. dialysis revenues are principally from government-based programs, including Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans, other government-based programs including our agreement with the Veterans Administration, and commercial insurance plans. The following table summarizes our U.S. dialysis revenues by payor source for U.S. dialysis patient service revenues the year ended December 31, 2023: Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans 56 % Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans 8 % Other government-based programs 3 % Total government-based programs 67 % Commercial (including hospital dialysis services) 33 % Total U.S. dialysis patient service revenues 100 % Medicare revenue Medicare fee for service Since 1972, the federal government has provided healthcare coverage for qualified ESRD patients under the Medicare ESRD program regardless of age or financial circumstances. ESRD is the first and only disease state eligible for Medicare coverage both for dialysis and dialysis-related services and for all benefits available under the Medicare program. Government dialysis related payment rates in the U.S. are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For patients with Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled payment rate which provides a fixed payment rate to encompass all goods and services provided during the dialysis treatment that are related to the dialysis treatment, including certain pharmaceuticals, such as erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs), calcimimetics, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, irrespective of the level of pharmaceuticals administered to the patient or additional services performed. Most lab services are also included in the bundled payment. Although Medicare reimbursement limits the allowable charge per treatment, it provides industry participants with a relatively predictable and recurring revenue stream for dialysis services provided to patients without commercial insurance. For the year ended December 31, 2023, approximately 89% of our total U.S. dialysis patients were covered under some form of government-based program, with approximately 74% of our dialysis patients covered under Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans. Under this ESRD Prospective Payment System (PPS), the bundled payments to a dialysis facility may be reduced by as much as 2% based on the facility s performance in specified quality measures set annually by CMS through its QIP. CMS established QIP through the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 to promote high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESRD. QIP associates a portion of Medicare reimbursement directly with a facility s performance on quality of care measures. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement result when a facility s overall score on applicable measures does not meet established standards. Uncertainty about future payment rates remains a material risk to our business, as well as the potential implementation of or changes in coverage determinations or other rules or regulations by CMS or Medicare Administrative Contractors that may impact reimbursement. An important provision in the Medicare ESRD statute is an annual adjustment, or market basket update, to the ESRD PPS base rate. Absent action by Congress, the ESRD PPS base rate is updated annually by an inflation adjustment based on historical data and forecasts and does not always cover the actual inflationary increase. Due in part to continued higher than expected inflation rates, the annual update for the 2024 ESRD PPS base rate did not accurately forecast the cost increase experienced by providers. On September 18, 2020, pursuant to the 2019 Executive Order, CMS, through CMMI, published the final ETC Model. The ETC Model launched on January 1, 2021, administered through CMMI in approximately 30% of our dialysis clinics across the country. CMS subsequently issued several clarifying rules through November 2022 and continues to evaluate the model. 6 On October 27, 2023, CMS issued a final rule to update the Medicare ESRD PPS payment rate and policies for calendar year 2024. Among other things, the final rule updates the Acute Kidney Injury dialysis payment rate for renal dialysis services furnished by ESRD facilities and requirements for the ESRD QIP. CMS estimates that the overall impact of the rule will increase ESRD facilities average reimbursement by 2.1% in 2024. As a result of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and subsequent activity in Congress, a $1.2 trillion sequester (across-the-board spending cuts) in discretionary programs took effect in 2013 reducing Medicare payments (currently by 2%), which was subsequently extended through fiscal year 2032. Federal COVID-19 relief legislation suspended the 2% Medicare sequestration from May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021. The Protecting Medicare and American Farmers from Sequester Cuts Act, signed into law on December 10, 2021, extended the suspension of the 2% Medicare sequestration from December 31, 2021 through March 31, 2022, with 1% Medicare sequestration beginning April 1, 2022 through June 30, 2022 and 2% Medicare sequestration beginning July 1, 2022 and thereafter. While in effect, the suspension of sequestration significantly increased our revenues. Most ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their age or disability status, as well as whether they are covered by a commercial insurance plan. Generally, for a patient not covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare can become the primary payor for ESRD patients receiving dialysis services either immediately or after a three-month waiting period. In most cases, for a patient covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare will either become the primary payor after 33 months, which includes the three-month waiting period, or earlier if the patient s commercial insurance plan coverage terminates or if the patient chooses Medicare over the commercial plan. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rates we receive for that patient shift from the commercial insurance plan rates to Medicare payment rates, which are on average significantly lower than commercial insurance rates. Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system for each covered dialysis treatment. The patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In many cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients who do not qualify for Medicaid, but otherwise cannot afford secondary insurance in the form of a Medicare Supplement Plan, can apply for premium payment assistance from charitable organizations to obtain secondary coverage. If a patient does not have secondary insurance coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the remaining 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare does not pay. However, we are able to recover some portion of this unpaid patient balance from Medicare through an established cost reporting process by identifying these Medicare bad debts on each center s Medicare cost report. For additional detail on charitable premium assistance and certain associated risks, see the risk factor in