ITEM 1. Business 5 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 25 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 65 ITEM 2. Properties 66 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 66 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 66 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 67 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 68 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 69 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 82 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 83 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 83 ITEM 9B. Other Information 86 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 86 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 86 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 86 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 86 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 87 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 90 Signatures 91 CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical financial information contained herein, the matters discussed in this Form 10-K may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and subject to the safe harbor created by the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include declarations regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations and those of our management. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control; actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further adjustment; (ii) those risks and uncertainties identified under Risk Factors ; and (iii) the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Summary of Risk Factors The below summary of risk factors provides an overview of many of the risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities. As a result, the below summary risks do not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read the summary risks together with the more detailed discussion of risks set forth following this section under the heading Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks, beyond those summarized below or discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may apply to our activities or operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. Consistent with the foregoing, we are exposed to a variety of risks, including risks associated with the following: If we experience decreasing prices for our products and we are unable to reduce our expenses, including the per unit cost of producing our products, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to cost-containment efforts by our payors that could result in reduced product pricing and/or sales of our products and cause a reduction in future revenue. Although many third-party payors have adopted some form of coverage policy on continuous glucose monitoring devices, our products do not always have some form of coverage, including simple broad-based contractual coverage, with third-party payors and we frequently experience administrative challenges in obtaining reimbursement for our customers. If we are unable to obtain adequately broad reimbursement at acceptable prices for our products or any future products from third-party payors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. The research and development efforts we undertake independently, and in some instances in connection with our collaborations with third parties, may not result in the development of commercially viable products, the generation of significant future revenues or adequate profitability. Our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. If our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of product at appropriate quality levels, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. Manufacturing difficulties and/or any disruption at our facilities may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales, and increase our expenses. We depend upon third-party suppliers and outsource to other parties, making us vulnerable to supply disruptions, suboptimal quality, non-compliance and/or price fluctuations, which could harm our business. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our products, we may have difficulty achieving market awareness and selling our products in the future. We operate in a highly competitive market and face competition from large, well-established companies with significant resources, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. The outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and its variants and the COVID-19 disease that it causes, or similar public health crises, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our manufacturing, commercial operations and sales. We are subject to a variety of risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect our business, our operations or profitability and operating results. 3 We have incurred significant losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We are subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and other requirements regarding privacy, data protection, security, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could result in the compromise of confidential data or critical data systems and give rise to potential harm to customers, remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under HIPAA, consumer protection laws, or other common law theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business and operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with applicable laws and government regulations, we could become subject to penalties, be excluded from participation in government programs, and/or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Managed care trends and consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Health care policy changes, including U.S. health care reform legislation, may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to successfully complete the pre-clinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support additional PMA, de novo, or 510(k) applications or supplements, we may be unable to commercialize our CGM systems under development, which could impair our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from shipping affected products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. We may also be subject to other claims or suits. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. We face the risk of product liability claims and may be subject to damages, fines, penalties and injunctions, among other things. We could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. Our stock price is highly volatile and investing in our stock involves a high degree of risk, which could result in substantial losses for investors. We have indebtedness in the form of convertible senior notes, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to respond to changes in our business. 4 PART I ITEM 1 - BUSINESS Overview We are a medical device company primarily focused on the design, development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring, or CGM, systems for use by people with diabetes and by healthcare providers. We received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and commercialized our first product in 2006. We launched our latest generation system, the Dexcom G6 integrated Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, or G6, in 2018. Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms we, us, our, the company, or Dexcom refer to DexCom, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The mailing address of our headquarters is 6340 Sequence Drive, San Diego, California, 92121 and our telephone number at that location is (858) 200-0200. Our Internet website address is www.dexcom.com. We provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other report we file or furnish with the SEC. The reports are also available at www.sec.gov. Also available on our website are printable versions of our Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee charter, and Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. Stockholders may request copies of these documents by mail or telephone, at the address or phone number provided above. Product Candidates Dexcom G7 We are pursuing regulatory approvals for our next generation G7 CGM system. The G7 is designed with the goal of carrying forward many of the same features as our G6 CGM system and adding several new or improved features, including: Reduced size . A 60% reduction in size of the on-body wearable. Fully disposable . Sensor and transmitter combined into a single, disposable wearable. Simple application . New application process streamlines the number of steps required. Faster warmup . Warmup period expected to be reduced from the current two-hour warmup for G6. Reduced packaging waste . Significant reduction to the product packaging waste profile on a per unit basis. Products Dexcom G6 In March 2018, we obtained marketing authorization from the FDA for the G6 via the de novo process. The G6 was the first type of CGM system permitted by the FDA to be used as part of an integrated system with other compatible medical devices and electronic interfaces, which may include automated insulin dosing systems, insulin pumps, blood glucose meters or other electronic devices used for diabetes management. G6 and substantially equivalent devices of this generic type that may later receive marketing authorization are referred to as integrated continuous glucose monitoring systems, or iCGMs, and have been classified as Class II devices by the FDA. Along with this classification, the FDA established criteria, called special controls, which outline requirements for assuring CGM accuracy, reliability and clinical relevance, and which also describe the type of studies and data required to demonstrate acceptable CGM performance. The G6 is designed to allow our transmitter to run an algorithm to generate a glucose value and to communicate directly to a patient s compatible mobile device, including iPhone , iPod touch , iPad , and certain Android mobile devices. A patient s glucose data can also be displayed on wearable devices, like the Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices. The G6 transmitter has a labeled useful life of three months. Data from the G6 can be integrated with Dexcom CLARITY , our cloud-based reporting software, for personalized, easy-to-understand analysis of trends that may improve diabetes management. In the United States, the G6 is covered by Medicare and Medicaid in the majority of states and by commercial insurers, subject to satisfaction of certain eligibility and coverage criteria for individuals with both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. In June 2018, we received Conformit Europ enne Marking, or CE Mark, approval for the G6, which allows us to market the system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark, as well as New Zealand, though certain countries may require compliance with certain local administrative requirements and/or additional marketing authorizations (for example, the inclusion of medical devices on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods in Australia). In October 2019, we also received marketing authorization from the FDA for the Dexcom G6 Pro, or G6 Pro, which allows healthcare professionals to purchase the G6 for use with their patients. The G6 Pro has many of same features as the G6 5 and is intended for healthcare professionals to use with their patients ages two years and up. The G6 Pro may be used in a blinded or unblinded mode for up to 10 days. For the G6, the sensor is inserted by the user and is intended to be used continuously for up to 10 days, after which it may be replaced with a new disposable sensor. Our transmitter is reusable until it reaches the end of its use life. Our receiver is also reusable. As we establish an installed base of customers using our products, we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenues through recurring sales of our disposable sensors. The G6 carries forward important features of prior generation Dexcom CGM systems: Continuous glucose readings. Automatically sends glucose readings to a Dexcom receiver or compatible mobile device every five minutes. Mobile app and sharing. Compatibility with mobile device applications allows for sharing glucose information with other people for added support and care coordination. Customizable alarms and alerts. Personalized alert schedule immediately warns the user of pending dangerous high and low blood sugars. The G6 also has a number of new or improved features compared to our prior generation devices: Finger stick elimination. No finger sticks are needed for calibration or diabetes treatment decisions, consistent with the instructions for use. Easy sensor application. Complete redesign of the sensor applicator allows for one-touch, simple self-insertion. Discreet and low profile. A redesigned transmitter with a 28% lower profile than the previous generation Dexcom CGM system makes the device comfortable and easy to wear under clothing. Medication blocking. New feature allows for more accurate glucose readings without interference from common medications taken at typical indication doses, such as acetaminophen. Predictive low alert. New alert feature intended to predict hypoglycemia before it hits to help avoid dangerous low blood sugar events. Extended 10-day disposable sensor. Up to 10-day sensor use allows for 43% longer wear than previous generation Dexcom CGM systems. Other than the foregoing, the features of the G6 are generally consistent with our prior generation CGM systems in its technical capabilities and its indications. Since the G6 is classified by the FDA as a Class II device, it is subject to special controls and modifications of, or revisions to, the device may be made under the 510(k) process. Dexcom Share The Dexcom Share remote monitoring system, offered for use with any current Dexcom system, uses an app on the patient s compatible iPhone, iPod touch, iPad or Android mobile device to securely and wirelessly transmit glucose information to the cloud and then to apps on the mobile devices of up to five designated recipients, or followers, who can remotely monitor a patient s glucose information and receive alert notifications anywhere they have a wireless connection. A patient s glucose data can also be displayed on a patient s or follower s wearable device, such as the Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices, when used in conjunction with the patient s or follower s compatible iPhone or Android mobile device. Dexcom Real-Time API In July 2021, we received FDA 510(k) clearance for our Real-Time API, which expands connectivity and interoperability of the Dexcom CGM digital ecosystem. Dexcom Real-Time API enables invited third-party developers to integrate real-time CGM data into their digital health apps and devices. Dexcom ONE In July 2021, we obtained CE Mark approval for our new Dexcom ONE CGM system, or Dexcom ONE, which we have launched in four countries: Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Dexcom ONE consists of three main components: a Dexcom ONE sensor, a Dexcom ONE transmitter, and a Dexcom ONE app as the display device for users with a compatible mobile device. Dexcom ONE carries many of the same features as the G6, and is indicated for persons, including pregnant women, ages 2 years and older. Like our other CGM systems, Dexcom ONE is designed to replace finger stick blood glucose testing for diabetes treatment decisions. Data and Insulin Delivery Collaborations We have entered into multiple collaboration agreements that leverage our technology platform to integrate our CGM products with insulin delivery systems. The general purpose of these development and commercial relationships is to integrate our technology into the insulin pump or pen product offerings of the respective partner, enabling the partner s insulin delivery 6 device to receive and display glucose readings from our transmitter and, in some cases, use the glucose readings for semi-automated insulin delivery. Currently, we have announced significant insulin delivery partnerships with Eli Lilly, Insulet, Novo Nordisk, Tandem Diabetes and The Ypsomed Group. In addition to these major partners, we are working with other companies that are pursuing varying strategies surrounding semi-automated insulin delivery and data analytics to improve outcomes and ease-of-use in diabetes management. We have also entered into collaborations with several organizations that are currently using, or are developing, programs for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes that utilize our current CGM systems. These collaborations align with the strategy to seek broader access to our CGM systems for people with Type 2 diabetes, including those who are not treated with intensive insulin therapy. Verily Collaboration Our Restated Collaboration Agreement with Verily Life Science LLC (an Alphabet Company) and Verily Ireland Limited (collectively, Verily) provides us with an exclusive license to use intellectual property of Verily resulting from the collaboration, and certain Verily patents, in the development, manufacture and commercialization of blood-based or interstitial glucose monitoring products more generally (subject to certain exclusions, which are outside the CGM field as it is commonly understood). It also provides us with non-exclusive license rights under Verily s other intellectual property rights to develop, manufacture, and commercialize those kinds of glucose monitoring products and certain CGM product companion software functionalities. In consideration of Verily s performance of its obligations under the joint development plan of the Restated Collaboration Agreement, the licenses granted to us and the amendment of the original agreement, we have made upfront and incentive payments, and will make potential additional milestone payments for future product regulatory approval and sales-based milestones. At our election, we may make these payments in shares of our common stock or cash. If we elect to make these milestone payments in cash, any such cash payment would be equal to the number of shares that would otherwise be issued for the given milestone payment multiplied by the value of our stock on the date the relevant milestone is achieved, adjusted for stock splits, dividends, and the like. See Note 2 Development and Other Agreements to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 and Exhibit 10.31 of this Annual Report for a further description of the Restated Collaboration Agreement, including the number of shares of stock for milestone payments. Market Opportunity Diabetes Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for which there is no known cure and which has other significant adverse consequences for human health throughout the world. The disease is caused by the body s inability to produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin. This inability prevents the body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. Normally, the pancreas provides control of blood glucose levels by secreting the hormone insulin to decrease blood glucose levels when concentrations are too high. In people with diabetes, the body does not produce sufficient levels of insulin, or fails to utilize insulin effectively, causing blood glucose levels to rise above normal. This condition is called hyperglycemia and often results in acute complications as well as chronic long-term complications such as heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness. When blood glucose levels are high, people with diabetes often administer insulin in an effort to decrease blood glucose levels. Unfortunately, insulin administration can drive blood glucose levels below the normal range, resulting in hypoglycemia. In cases of severe hypoglycemia, people with diabetes risk acute complications, such as loss of consciousness or death. Due to the drastic nature of acute complications associated with hypoglycemia, many people with diabetes are reluctant to reduce blood glucose levels. Consequently, these individuals often remain in a hyperglycemic state, increasing their odds of developing long-term chronic complications. Diabetes is typically classified into two major groups: Type 1 and Type 2. The International Diabetes Federation, or IDF, estimates that in 2021, 537 million adults (aged 20-79) around the world had diabetes. IDF estimates that by 2045, the worldwide incidence of people suffering from diabetes will reach 783 million. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, in its National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2022, or the 2022 CDC Report, crude estimates for the prevalence of diabetes in the United States as of 2019 include 37.3 million people with diabetes, of which 28.7 million people have diagnosed diabetes. The 2022 CDC Report also lists diabetes as the seventh leading cause of death by disease in the United States, excluding comorbidities associated with the disease. The report states that diabetes is the primary cause of death for more than 87,000 Americans each year, and contributes to the death of more than 280,000 Americans annually. According to the Congressional Diabetes Caucus website, diabetes is the leading cause of kidney failure, adult-onset blindness, lower-limb amputations, and a significant cause of heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure and nerve damage. According to the IDF, there were an estimated 6.7 million deaths attributable to diabetes globally in 2021 between the ages of 20 and 79 years. 7 According to the ADA, one in every four healthcare dollars was spent on treating people with diabetes in 2017, and the direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in the United States were an estimated $327 billion, an inflation-adjusted increase of approximately 26% since 2012. Of the $327 billion in overall expenses, the ADA estimated that approximately $237 billion were direct costs associated with diabetes care, chronic complications and excess general medical costs, and $90 billion were indirect costs. The ADA also found that in 2017, average medical expenditures among people with diagnosed diabetes were 2.3 times higher than for people without diabetes. According to the IDF, 2021 expenditures attributable to diabetes were estimated to be $966 billion globally, an increase of 27% from their previous estimate in 2019. Type 1 Diabetes According to the 2022 CDC Report, as of 2019 there were an estimated 1.8 million adults and youth with diagnosed Type 1 diabetes in the United States. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder that usually develops during childhood and is characterized by an absence of insulin, resulting from destruction of the insulin producing cells of the pancreas. Individuals with Type 1 diabetes must rely on frequent insulin injections in order to regulate and maintain blood glucose levels. According to JDRF, greater than 60,000 people are diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes each year in the United States and 5 million people in the U.S. are expected to have Type 1 diabetes by 2050. In addition, according to the ADA in 2019, nearly 18,000 youth are newly diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes every year in the United States. Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disorder which results when the body is unable to produce sufficient amounts of insulin or becomes insulin resistant. Depending on the severity of Type 2 diabetes, individuals may require diet and nutrition management, exercise, oral medications or insulin injections to regulate blood glucose levels. We estimate that between 5.0 and 6.0 million people with Type 2 diabetes in the United States must use insulin to manage their diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is occurring with increasing frequency in young people, with the increase in prevalence related to an increase in obesity amongst children. According to the CDC, as of 2017-2018, approximately 19.3% of children and adolescents aged 2-19 years, or 14.4 million children, in the United States were obese. Childhood obesity has more than doubled in children and quadrupled in adolescents in the past 30 years. Importance of Glucose Monitoring Blood glucose levels can be affected by many factors, including the carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness or impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption and changes in the effects of insulin in the body. Given the many factors that affect blood glucose levels, maintaining glucose within a normal range is difficult, resulting in frequent and unpredictable excursions above or below normal blood glucose levels. People with diabetes administer insulin or ingest carbohydrates throughout the day in order to maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges. People with diabetes frequently overcorrect and fluctuate between hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic states, often multiple times during the same day. As a result, many people with diabetes are routinely outside the normal blood glucose range. Failure to maintain blood glucose levels within the normal range leads to numerous and significant health risks. These risks include eye disease, nerve disease, kidney disease, cardiovascular disease and potentially hypoglycemic events. Limitations of Existing Glucose Monitoring Products Single-point finger stick devices are the most prevalent devices for glucose monitoring. These devices require taking a blood sample with a finger stick, placing a drop of blood on a test strip and inserting the strip into a glucose meter that yields a single point in time blood glucose measurement. We believe that these devices suffer from several limitations, including: Limited Information. Even if people with diabetes test several times each day, each measurement represents a single blood glucose value at a single point in time. Given the many factors that can affect blood glucose levels, excursions above and below the normal range often occur between these discrete measurement points in time. Without the ability to determine whether their blood glucose level is rising, falling or holding constant, and the rate at which their blood glucose level is changing, the individual s ability to effectively manage and maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges is severely limited. Further, people with diabetes cannot test themselves during sleep, when the risk of hypoglycemia is significantly increased. The illustrative graph below shows the limited information provided by four single-point measurements during a single day using a traditional single-point finger stick device, compared to the data provided by our continuous sensor. The continuous data indicates that, even with four finger sticks in one day, the patient s blood glucose levels were above the 