ITEM 1. Business 3 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 24 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 57 ITEM 2. Properties 58 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 58 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 59 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 60 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 62 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 63 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 72 ITEM 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 73 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 73 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 73 ITEM 9B. Other Information 76 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 76 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 76 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matters 76 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 76 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 76 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 77 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 80 CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical financial information contained herein, the matters discussed in this Form 10-K may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and subject to the safe harbor created by the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include declarations regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations and those of our management. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control; actual results could differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further adjustment; (ii) those risks and uncertainties identified under Risk Factors ; and (iii) the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I Item 1 - BUSINESS Overview We are a medical device company primarily focused on the design, development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring, or CGM, systems for use by people with diabetes and by healthcare providers. We received approval from the United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and commercialized our first product in 2006. We launched our latest generation system, the DexCom G6 integrated Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, or G6, in 2018. Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms we, us, our, the company, or DexCom refer to DexCom, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Products DexCom G6 In March 2018, we obtained marketing authorization from the FDA for the G6 via the de novo process. The G6 is the first type of CGM system permitted by the FDA to be used as part of an integrated system with other compatible medical devices and electronic interfaces, which may include automated insulin dosing systems, insulin pumps, blood glucose meters or other electronic devices used for diabetes management. G6 and substantially equivalent devices of this generic type that may later receive marketing authorization are referred to as integrated continuous glucose monitoring systems, or iCGMs, and have been classified as Class II devices by the FDA. Along with this classification, the FDA established criteria, called special controls, which outline requirements for assuring CGM accuracy, reliability and clinical relevance, and which also describe the type of studies and data required to demonstrate acceptable CGM performance. The G6 is designed to allow our transmitter to run an algorithm to generate a glucose value and to communicate directly to a patient s compatible mobile device, including iPhone , iPod touch , iPad , and certain Android mobile devices. A patient s glucose data can also be displayed on wearable devices, like the Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices. The G6 transmitter has a labeled useful life of three months. Data from the G6 can be integrated with DexCom CLARITY , our cloud-based reporting software, for personalized, easy-to-understand analysis of trends that may improve diabetes management. In the United States, the G6 is covered by Medicare as well as those commercial insurers that reimburse for the DexCom G5 Mobile Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, subject to satisfaction of certain eligibility and coverage criteria. In June 2018, we received Conformit Europ enne Marking, or CE Mark, approval for the G6, which allows us to market the system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark, as well as New Zealand, though certain countries may require compliance with certain local administrative requirements and/or additional marketing authorizations (for example, the inclusion of medical devices on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods in Australia). In October 2019, we also received marketing authorization from the FDA for the DexCom G6 Pro, or G6 Pro, which allows healthcare professionals to purchase the G6 for use with their patients. The G6 Pro has many of same features as the G6 and is intended for healthcare professionals to use with their patients ages two years and up. The G6 Pro may be used in a blinded or unblinded mode for up to 10 days. 3 For the G6, the sensor is inserted by the user and is intended to be used continuously for up to 10 days, after which it may be replaced with a new disposable sensor. Our transmitter is reusable until it reaches the end of its use life. Our receiver is also reusable. As we establish an installed base of customers using our products, we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenues through recurring sales of our disposable sensors. The G6 carries forward important features of prior generation DexCom CGM systems: Continuous glucose readings. Automatically sends glucose readings to a DexCom receiver or compatible mobile device every five minutes. Mobile app and sharing. Compatibility with mobile device applications allows for sharing glucose information with other people for added support and care coordination. Customizable alarms and alerts. Personalized alert schedule immediately warns the user of pending dangerous high and low blood sugars. The G6 also has a number of new or improved features compared to our prior generation devices: Finger stick elimination. No finger sticks are needed for calibration or diabetes treatment decisions, consistent with the instructions for use. Easy sensor application. Complete redesign of the sensor applicator allows for one-touch, simple self-insertion. Discreet and low profile. A redesigned transmitter with a 28% lower profile than the previous generation DexCom CGM system makes the device comfortable and easy to wear under clothing. Medication blocking. New feature allows for more accurate glucose readings without interference from common medications taken at typical indication doses, such as acetaminophen. Predictive low alert. New alert feature intended to predict hypoglycemia before it hits to help avoid dangerous low blood sugar events. Extended 10-day sensor. Up to 10-day sensor use allows for 43% longer wear than previous generation DexCom CGM systems. Other than with respect to the foregoing, the G6 is equivalent to our prior generation CGM systems in its technical capabilities and its indications. Since the G6 is classified by the FDA as a Class II device, it is subject to special controls and modifications of, or revisions to, the device may be made under the 510(k) process. DexCom G5 Mobile In August 2015, we received approval from the FDA for the DexCom G5 Mobile Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, also referred to as the G5 Mobile. The G5 Mobile is designed to allow our transmitter to run the Software 505 algorithm, and to communicate directly to a patient s compatible mobile device, including iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, and certain Android mobile devices. The G5 Mobile transmitter has a labeled useful life of three months. Data from the G5 Mobile can be integrated with DexCom CLARITY. In September 2015, we launched the G5 Mobile in certain countries in Europe. Similar to the G6, the disposable sensor is inserted by the user and is intended to be used continuously for up to seven days, after which it may be replaced with a new sensor. The related transmitter is reusable until it reaches the end of its use life, and the related receiver is also reusable. In December 2016, the FDA approved the G5 Mobile as the first CGM system in the United States to have a non-adjunctive indication. The non-adjunctive indication expands the lawfully permitted use of the G5 Mobile as a replacement to finger stick glucose testing for diabetes treatment decisions. With the new label indication, the G5 Mobile only requires two finger sticks per day for calibration. In the countries and regions outside of the United States that recognize the CE Mark, as well as the United States and Canada, the G5 Mobile also does not require confirmatory finger sticks when making treatment decisions, although a minimum of two finger sticks a day remain necessary for calibration. Approval of the non-adjunctive indication was also an important and necessary step in enabling people with Medicare to access CGM. Except with respect to the foregoing, the G5 Mobile is functionally equivalent to our earlier generation CGM systems in its technical capabilities and its regulatory requirements and indications. DexCom G4 PLATINUM The DexCom G4 PLATINUM CGM system, or G4 PLATINUM, replaced our DexCom SEVEN PLUS system beginning in 2012, when it was approved for up to seven days of continuous use by adults with diabetes. Since 2012, we have marketed the G4 PLATINUM under a CE Mark in the European Union, the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark, New Zealand and Australia, and in the United States with approval from the FDA. We received approvals for a pediatric indication under the CE Mark in February 2013 and from the FDA in February 2014, enabling us to market and sell this system to persons two years old and older who have diabetes. In June 2014, we received approval from the FDA for an expanded indication for the G4 PLATINUM for professional use, which allows healthcare professionals to purchase the G4 PLATINUM system for use with multiple patients. Healthcare professionals can use the insights gained from a G4 PLATINUM professional 4 session to adjust therapy and to educate and motivate patients to modify their behavior after viewing the effects that specific foods, exercise, stress and medications have on their glucose levels. In October 2014, we launched our Software 505 algorithm for the G4 PLATINUM, an algorithm which enabled our systems to achieve a single digit MARD, a measure of the accuracy of continuous glucose monitoring. DexCom Share In 2015, we received approval from the FDA for the G4 PLATINUM with DexCom Share, or Share, and began commercializing this product in the United States in the first quarter of 2015 using a secure wireless connection between a patient s G4 PLATINUM receiver and an app. We now offer this feature through the G6 and the G5 Mobile apps as well as the Share2 app, which works with the G4 PLATINUM receiver with Share. The Share remote monitoring system uses an app on the patient s iPhone, iPod touch, iPad or Android mobile device to transmit glucose information to the cloud and then to apps on the mobile devices of up to five designated recipients, or followers, who can remotely monitor a patient s glucose information and receive alert notifications anywhere they have an Internet or cellular connection. A patient s glucose data can also be displayed on a patient s or follower s wearable device, such as the Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices, when used in conjunction with the patient s or follower s iPhone or Android mobile device. Data and Insulin Delivery Collaborations We have entered into multiple collaboration agreements that leverage our technology platform to integrate our CGM products with insulin delivery systems. The general purpose of these development and commercial relationships is to integrate our technology into the insulin pump or pen product offerings of the respective partner, enabling the partner s insulin delivery device to receive and display glucose readings from our transmitter and, in some cases, use the glucose readings for semi-automated insulin delivery. Currently, we have announced significant insulin delivery partnerships with Eli Lilly, Insulet, Novo Nordisk and Tandem Diabetes. In addition to these major partners, we are working with other companies that are pursuing varying strategies surrounding semi-automated insulin delivery and data analytics to improve outcomes and ease-of-use in diabetes management. Verily Collaboration On November 20, 2018, we entered into an Amended and Restated Collaboration and License Agreement with Verily Life Sciences LLC (an Alphabet Company) and Verily Ireland Limited (collectively, Verily), which we refer to as the Restated Collaboration Agreement. This replaced our original Collaboration and License Agreement with Verily from August 2015, as amended in October 2016, and eliminated any future royalty obligations under the original agreement. Pursuant to the Restated Collaboration Agreement, we and Verily have agreed to continue to jointly develop a certain next-generation CGM product, and potentially one or more additional CGM products, for which we will have exclusive commercialization rights. The Restated Collaboration Agreement also provides us with an exclusive license to use intellectual property of Verily resulting from the collaboration, and certain Verily patents, in the development, manufacture and commercialization of blood-based or interstitial glucose monitoring products more generally (subject to certain exclusions, which are outside the CGM field as it is commonly understood). It also provides us with non-exclusive license rights under Verily s other intellectual property rights to develop, manufacture, and commercialize those kinds of glucose monitoring products and certain CGM-product companion software functionalities. The Restated Collaboration Agreement requires us to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, launch, and commercialize the CGM product(s) that are the subject of the collaboration according to certain timing and other objectives, and provides for one executive sponsor from each of us and Verily to meet periodically and make decisions related to the collaboration (within a limited scope of authority) by consensus. In consideration of Verily s performance of its obligations under the joint development plan of the Restated Collaboration Agreement, the licenses granted to us and the amendment of the original agreement, we have made upfront and incentive payments, and will make potential future milestone payments upon the achievement of certain goals, as follows: On December 28, 2018, we made an initial payment of $250.0 million in shares of our common stock, calculated under the Restated Collaboration Agreement to be 1,840,943 shares of our common stock, allocated between Verily and Onduo, LLC, subject to certain transfer restrictions. During 2019, we paid $3.2 million for the completion of certain development obligations before the agreed-upon deadline. Additional milestone payments of up to $275.0 million may become due and payable by us upon the achievement of future product regulatory approval and revenue milestones. At our election, we may make these milestone payments in shares of our common stock, also allocated between Verily and Onduo, LLC, with the number of shares being calculated based on the same share value that was used for purposes of the initial payment, adjusted for stock splits, dividends, and the like, subject to customary closing conditions, including any required antitrust approvals applicable to the issuance of such shares. Alternatively, at our election, we may make any of these milestone payments in cash. Any such cash 5 payment would be equal to the number of shares that would otherwise be issued for the given milestone payment (calculated as described above) multiplied by the value of our stock on the date the relevant milestone is achieved, adjusted for stock splits, dividends, and the like. Future Products We plan to develop future generations of technologies focused on improved performance and convenience and that will enable intelligent insulin administration. We are also exploring how to extend our offerings to other opportunities, including for people with Type 2 diabetes that are non-insulin using, people with pre-diabetes, people who are obese, people who are pregnant, and people in the hospital setting. We will continue to develop a networked platform with open architecture, connectivity and transmitters capable of communicating with other devices and software systems. We also intend to expand our efforts to accumulate CGM patient data and metrics and apply predictive modeling and machine learning to generate interactive CGM insights that can inform patient behavior. Background Diabetes is a disease with significant adverse consequences for human health throughout the world. The International Diabetes Federation, or IDF , estimates that in 2019, 463 million adults (aged 20-79) around the world had diabetes, including 31 million in the United States. IDF estimates that by 2045, the worldwide incidence of people suffering from diabetes will reach 700 million. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention s National Vital Statistics Reports for 2017, diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death by disease in the United States, excluding comorbidities associated with the disease. According to the Congressional Diabetes Caucus website, diabetes is the leading cause of kidney failure, adult-onset blindness, lower-limb amputations, and a significant cause of heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure and nerve damage. According to the IDF , there were an estimated 4.2 million deaths attributable to diabetes globally in 2019 between the ages of 20 and 79 years. The American Diabetes Association, or ADA , Fast Facts, revised in August 2017, states that diabetes is the primary cause of death for more than 80,000 Americans each year, and contributes to the death of more than 250,000 Americans annually. Among people of all ages, 2017 data indicated the following: An estimated 24.7 million people or 7.6% of the U.S. population had been diagnosed with diabetes. In addition to those newly diagnosed, the Congressional Diabetes Caucus website reports that every 24 hours there are: 238 amputations in people with diabetes, 120 people who enter end-stage kidney disease programs, and 48 people who go blind. According to the ADA , one in every four healthcare dollars was spent on treating people with diabetes in 2017, and the direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in the United States were an estimated $327 billion, an inflation-adjusted increase of approximately 26% since 2012. Of the $327 billion in overall expenses, the ADA estimated that approximately $237 billion were direct costs associated with diabetes care, chronic complications and excess general medical costs, and $90 billion were indirect costs. The ADA also found that in 2017, average medical expenditures among people with diagnosed diabetes were 2.3 times higher than for people without diabetes. According to the IDF , 2017 expenditures attributable to diabetes were estimated to be $760 billion globally. The IDF estimates that expenditures attributable to diabetes will grow to $845 billion globally by 2045. Continuous Glucose Monitoring We believe continuous glucose monitoring has the potential to enable more people with diabetes to achieve and sustain tight glycemic control with minimal disruption to their daily lives. The landmark 1993 Diabetes Control and Complications Trial , or DCCT, demonstrated that improving blood glucose control lowers the risk of developing diabetes-related complications by up to 50%. The study also demonstrated that people with Type 1 diabetes achieved sustained benefits with intensive management. However, according to an article published in The New England Journal of Medicine in November 2014, in two national registries, only 13% to 15% of people with diabetes met treatment guidelines for good glycemic control, and more than 20% had very poor glycemic control. Various clinical studies and real world evidence also demonstrate the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring in the management of Type 1 diabetes and insulin-requiring Type-2 diabetes, when compared to regimens relying on self-monitoring of blood glucose. Results of several early clinical trials established that CGM usage was associated with improved glycemic outcomes. For instance, a Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, or JDRF , study published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2008, and the extension phase of the study, published in Diabetes Care in 2009, demonstrated that continuous glucose monitoring improved A1c levels and reduced incidence of hypoglycemia for patients over the age of 25 and for all patients of all ages who utilized continuous glucose monitoring regularly. In 2016, the first randomized, controlled study focusing solely on the benefit of continuous glucose monitoring for diabetes patients using multiple daily injections insulin therapy showed DexCom CGM system users on multiple daily injections of insulin therapy achieved a one percent average A1c reduction after 24 weeks of regular use, compared to their baseline. Study participants also increased time spent in their target 6 A1c range and spent less time in hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia when they used a DexCom CGM system compared to those who used only a standard blood glucose meter to monitor their glucose. This DIaMonD (Multiple Daily Injections and Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Diabetes) study is the first-of-its-kind in demonstrating the impact of CGM only, without insulin pumps or other therapeutic interventions, on A1c and hypoglycemia in participants using a multiple daily injection insulin regimen. Real-time alerts and multi-device integration further differentiate CGM-based and self-monitoring of blood glucose, or SMBG, based diabetes regimens. Alerts triggered by existing or impending abnormal glucose values are associated with less exposure to hypo- and hyperglycemia in large real-world data sets, and multi-device integration allows some CGM systems to communicate with automated insulin delivery systems. One such automated insulin delivery system that uses the G6 was studied in a large clinical trial that associated its use with numerous quality-of-life and glycemic benefits. In late 2019, the ADA, in its Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes, recognized CGM as a useful tool in diabetes management, citing level A evidence in Type 1 diabetes and level B evidence in Type 2 diabetes and pregnancy. The ADA recommends continued access and use as close to daily as possible for maximal benefit. We believe Dexcom s CGM technology contributes to better glycemic outcomes and improved quality of life by allowing informed diabetes treatment decisions. A 2019 white paper from IQVIA also outlines the potential benefit offered by use of CGM systems, suggesting that increasing time-in-range to industry standards for Type 1 and Type 2 insulin-using patients would result in significant cost savings to the economic system and the prevention of major complications. Our current target market consists primarily of people with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes who utilize insulin pump therapy or who utilize multiple daily insulin injections. We continue to target people with Type 2 diabetes on multiple daily injection therapy and expect to expand our target market to include all people with diabetes, people with pre-diabetes, people who are obese, people who are pregnant, and people with diabetes in the hospital setting. Although the majority of our revenue has been generated in the United States, we have expanded our operations to include certain countries in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East, as well as Australia, Canada, and New Zealand . Commercial Operations We have built a direct sales organization in the United States, Canada and certain countries in Europe to call on healthcare professionals, including endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators, who can educate and influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that focusing efforts on these participants is important given the instrumental role they each play in the decision-making process for diabetes therapy. To complement our direct sales efforts, we have entered into distribution arrangements in the United States and internationally that allow distributors to sell our products. We believe our direct, highly specialized and focused sales organization and our domestic and international distribution agreements are sufficient for us to support our sales efforts for at least the next twelve months. Product revenues are generated from the sale of our CGM systems through a direct sales force in the United States, Austria, Canada, Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom as well as through distribution arrangements in the United States, Australia and New Zealand, and certain countries in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East . Market Opportunity Diabetes Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for which there is no known cure. The disease is caused by the body s inability to produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin. This inability prevents the body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. Normally, the pancreas provides control of blood glucose levels by secreting the hormone insulin to decrease blood glucose levels when concentrations are too high. In people with diabetes, the body does not produce sufficient levels of insulin, or fails to utilize insulin effectively, causing blood glucose levels to rise above normal. This condition is called hyperglycemia and often results in acute complications as well as chronic long-term complications such as heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness. When blood glucose levels are high, people with diabetes often administer insulin in an effort to decrease blood glucose levels. Unfortunately, insulin administration can drive blood glucose levels below the normal range, resulting in hypoglycemia. In cases of severe hypoglycemia, people with diabetes risk acute complications, such as loss of consciousness or death. Due to the drastic nature of acute complications associated with hypoglycemia, many people with diabetes are reluctant to reduce blood glucose levels. Consequently, these individuals often remain in a hyperglycemic state, increasing their odds of developing long-term chronic complications. Diabetes is typically classified into two major groups: Type 1 and Type 2. 7 Type 1 Diabetes According to the ADA, as of 2017 there were an estimated 1.3 million people with Type 1 diabetes in the United States. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder that usually develops during childhood and is characterized by an absence of insulin, resulting from destruction of the insulin producing cells of the pancreas. Individuals with Type 1 diabetes must rely on frequent insulin injections in order to regulate and maintain blood glucose levels. According to JDRF, 40,000 people are diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes each year in the United States and between the years 2001 and 2009 there was a 21% increase in the prevalence of Type 1 diabetes in people under the age of 20. In addition, according to the ADA in 2019, nearly 18,000 youth are newly diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes every year in the United States. Type 2 Diabetes According to the ADA, in 2012 there were approximately 27.8 million people in the United States with Type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disorder which results when the body is unable to produce sufficient amounts of insulin or becomes insulin resistant. Depending on the severity of Type 2 diabetes, individuals may require diet and nutrition management, exercise, oral medications or insulin injections to regulate blood glucose levels. We estimate that approximately 6.0 million Type 2 patients must use insulin to manage their diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is occurring with increasing frequency in young people, with the increase in prevalence related to an increase in obesity amongst children. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as of 2016, approximately 18.5% of children and adolescents aged 2-19 years, or 13.7 million children, in the United States were obese. Childhood obesity has more than doubled in children and quadrupled in adolescents in the past 30 years. Diabetes and Glucose Management in the Hospital Setting There are variou