ITEM 1. Business 6 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 26 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 67 I TEM 1C. Cybersecurity 67 ITEM 2. Properties 69 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 69 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 70 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 71 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 72 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 73 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 84 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 85 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 ITEM 9B. Other Information 88 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 89 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 89 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 89 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 90 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 92 Signatures 93 CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for historical financial information contained herein, the matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and subject to the safe harbor created by the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include declarations regarding our operations, financial condition and prospects, and business strategies, and are based on management s current intent, beliefs, expectations, and assumptions. Prospective investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control; actual results could differ materially from those indicated or implied by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further adjustment; (ii) those risks and uncertainties identified under Risk Factors ; and (iii) the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Information that is based on estimates, forecasts, projections, market research or similar methodologies is inherently subject to uncertainties and actual events or circumstances may differ materially from events and circumstances reflected in this information. Unless otherwise expressly stated, we obtained this industry, business, market, and other data from reports, research surveys, studies, and similar data prepared by market research firms and other third parties, industry, medical and general publications, government data, and similar sources. Corporate Information The mailing address of our headquarters is 6340 Sequence Drive, San Diego, California, 92121, and our telephone number at that location is (858) 200-0200. Our website address is located at dexcom.com and our investor relations website is located at investors.dexcom.com. We file electronically with the SEC our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of these reports and other information as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The reports are also available at www.sec.gov. We announce material information to the public about us, our products, and other matters through a variety of means, including filings with the SEC, press releases, public conference calls, presentations, webcasts, and our investor relations website in order to achieve broad, non-exclusionary distribution of information to the public and to comply with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. We also routinely post important information for investors on our website noted above, and we may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website noted above. Also available on our website are printable versions of our Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter, Nominating and Governance Committee charter, Technology Committee charter, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. Stockholders may request copies of these documents by mail or telephone, at the address or phone number provided above. Except as expressly set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the contents of our website is not incorporated by reference into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website is intended to be inactive textual references only. The information disclosed by the foregoing channels could be deemed to be material information. As such, we encourage investors, the media, and others to follow the channels listed above and review the information disclosed through such channels. "Dexcom", Dexcom Clarity , and Dexcom One , and other trademarks of ours appearing in this report are our property. Other service marks, trademarks and trade names referred to in this Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. 3 Summary of Risk Factors The below summary of risk factors provides an overview of many of the risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities. As a result, the below summary risks do not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read the summary risks together with the more detailed discussion of risks set forth following this section under the heading Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks, beyond those summarized below or discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may apply to our activities or operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. Consistent with the foregoing, we are exposed to a variety of risks, including risks associated with the following: If we experience decreasing prices for our products and we are unable to reduce our expenses, including the per unit cost of producing our products, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to cost-containment efforts by third-party payors that could result in reduced product pricing and/or sales of our products and cause a reduction in revenue. Although many third-party payors have adopted some form of coverage policy for continuous glucose monitoring devices, our products do not always have such coverage, including simple broad-based contractual coverage with third-party payors, and we frequently experience administrative challenges in obtaining coverage or reimbursement for our products. If we are unable to obtain adequately broad coverage or reimbursement for our products or any future products from third-party payors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. The research and development efforts we undertake independently, and in some instances in connection with our collaborations with third parties, may not result in the development of commercially viable products, the generation of significant future revenues or adequate profitability. Our products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. If our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of product at appropriate quality levels, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. Manufacturing difficulties and/or any disruption at our facilities may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales, and increase our expenses. We depend upon third-party suppliers and outsource to other parties, making us vulnerable to supply disruptions, suboptimal quality, non-compliance and/or price fluctuations, which could harm our business. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our products, we may have difficulty achieving market awareness and selling our products in the future. We operate in a highly competitive market and face competition from large, well-established companies with significant resources, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. We are subject to risks associated with public health issues, including pandemics, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of risks due to our international operations th at could adversely affect our business, our operations or profitability and operating results. We are subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and other requirements regarding privacy, data protection, security, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. Cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents could result in the compromise of confidential data or critical data systems and give rise to potential harm to customers, remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under HIPAA, consumer protection laws, or other common law theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business and operations. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with applicable laws and government regulations, we could become subject to penalties, be excluded from participation in government programs, and/or be required to make significant changes to our operations. 4 Managed care trends and consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully complete the pre-clinical studies or clinical trials necessary to support additional premarket approval, or PMA, de novo, or 510(k) applications or supplements, we may be unable to commercialize our CGM systems under development, which could impair our business, financial condition and operating results. Health care policy changes, including U.S. health care reform legislation, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from shipping affected products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. We may also be subject to other claims or suits. Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce products based on our technology, which could substantially impair our ability to compete. We face the risk of product liability claims and may be subject to damages, fines, penalties and injunctions, among other things. We could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. We have incurred significant losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. Our stock price is highly volatile and investing in our stock involves a high degree of risk, which could result in substantial losses for investors. We have indebtedness in the form of convertible senior notes, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to respond to changes in our business. Environmental, social and governance, or ESG, regulations, policies and provisions could expose us to numerous risks. 5 PART I ITEM 1 - BUSINESS Overview We are a medical device company primarily focused on the design, development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring, or CGM, systems for the management of diabetes by patients, caregivers, and clinicians around the world. We received approval from the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and commercialized our first product in 2006. We launched our latest generation systems, the Dexcom G6 integrated Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, or G6, in 2018 and more recently received marketing clearance from the FDA on the Dexcom G7 , or G7, in December 2022. Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms we, us, our, the company, or Dexcom refer to DexCom, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Products Dexcom G6 In March 2018, we obtained marketing authorization from the FDA for the G6 via the de novo process. The G6 was the first type of CGM system permitted by the FDA to be used as part of an integrated system with other compatible medical devices and electronic interfaces, which may include automated insulin delivery systems, insulin pumps, blood glucose meters or other electronic devices used for diabetes management. G6 and substantially equivalent devices of this generic type that may later receive marketing authorization are referred to as integrated continuous glucose monitoring systems, or iCGMs, and have been classified as Class II devices by the FDA. Along with this classification, the FDA established criteria, called special controls, which outline requirements for assuring CGM accuracy, reliability and clinical relevance, and which also describe the type of studies and data required to demonstrate acceptable CGM performance. The G6 is designed to allow our transmitter to run an algorithm to generate a glucose value and to communicate directly to a patient s compatible mobile device, including iPhone , iPod touch , iPad , and certain Android mobile devices. A patient s glucose data can also be displayed on wearable devices, like the Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices. The G6 transmitter has a labeled useful life of three months. Data from the G6 can be integrated with Dexcom CLARITY , our cloud-based reporting software, for personalized, easy-to-understand analysis of trends that may improve diabetes management. In the United States, the G6 is covered by Medicare and Medicaid in the majority of states and by commercial insurers, subject to satisfaction of certain eligibility and coverage criteria for individuals with both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. In June 2018, we received Conformit Europ enne Marking, or CE Mark, approval for the G6, which allows us to market the system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark, as well as New Zealand, though certain countries may require compliance with certain local administrative requirements and/or additional marketing authorizations (for example, the inclusion of medical devices on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods in Australia). In October 2019, we also received marketing authorization from the FDA for the Dexcom G6 Pro, or G6 Pro, which allows healthcare professionals to purchase the G6 for use with their patients. The G6 Pro has many of same features as the G6 and is intended for healthcare professionals to use with their patients ages two years and up. The G6 Pro may be used in a blinded or unblinded mode for up to 10 days. For the G6, the sensor is inserted by the user and is intended to be used continuously for up to 10 days, after which it may be replaced with a new disposable sensor. Our transmitter is reusable until it reaches the end of its use life, labeled as three months. Our receiver is also reusable. As we continue to establish an installed base of customers using our products, we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenues through recurring sales of our disposable sensors. The G6 carries forward important features of prior generation Dexcom CGM systems: Continuous glucose readings. Automatically sends glucose readings to a Dexcom receiver or compatible display device every five minutes. Mobile app and sharing. Compatibility with mobile device applications allows for sharing glucose information with up to 10 other people for added support and care coordination. Integration with the world s largest connected CGM ecosystem (including Apple Watch, Garmin and other digital health apps). Customizable alarms and alerts. Personalized alert schedule immediately warns the user of pending dangerous high and low blood sugar levels. 6 The G6 also has a number of new or improved features compared to our prior generation devices: Finger stick elimination. No finger sticks are needed for calibration or diabetes treatment decisions, consistent with the instructions for use, unless symptoms do not match readings. Easy sensor application. Complete redesign of the sensor applicator allows for one-touch, simple self-insertion. Discreet and low profile. A redesigned transmitter with a 28% lower profile than the previous generation Dexcom CGM system makes the device comfortable and easy to wear under clothing. Medication blocking. Allows for more accurate glucose readings without interference from common medications taken at typical indication doses, such as acetaminophen. Predictive low alert. Alert feature intended to predict hypoglycemia before it hits to help avoid dangerous low blood sugar events. Extended 10-day disposable sensor. Up to 10-day sensor use allows for 43% longer wear than previous generation Dexcom CGM systems. Other than the foregoing, the features of the G6 are generally consistent with our prior generation CGM systems in its technical capabilities and its indications. Since the G6 is classified by the FDA as a Class II device, it is subject to special controls and modifications of, or revisions to, the device may be made under the 510(k) process. Dexcom G7 In March 2022, we obtained CE Mark approval for G7. In December 2022, we obtained marketing authorization from the FDA for the G7 via the 510(k) review process. Like the G6, the G7 is an iCGM, is classified as a Class II device by the FDA, and is subject to special controls. The glucose value algorithm, ability to communicate with approved display and mobile devices, and compatibility with CLARITY are all substantially equivalent in technical performance and capability to the G6. In the United States, the G7 is covered by Medicare and Medicaid in the majority of states and by commercial insurers, subject to satisfaction of certain eligibility and coverage criteria for individuals with both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Dexcom G7 is cleared in the United States for all people with diabetes ages two years and older, giving more people than ever access to a powerfully simple diabetes management solution. With an overall Mean Absolute Relative Difference, or MARD, of 8.2%, as well as 94.1% of values within 20% of their comparator, Dexcom G7 is the most accurate CGM cleared by the FDA and is clinically proven to lower A1C (a blood test that provides information about average levels of blood glucose, over the prior three months), reduce hyper- and hypoglycemia, and increase time in range. The G7 carries forward important features of prior generation Dexcom CGM systems: Finger stick elimination. No finger sticks are needed for calibration or diabetes treatment decisions, consistent with the instructions for use, unless symptoms do not match readings. Continuous glucose readings. Automatically sends glucose readings to a Dexcom receiver or compatible display device every five minutes. Mobile app and sharing. Compatibility with mobile device applications allows for sharing glucose information with up to 10 other people for added support and care coordination. Designed to integrate with the world s largest connected CGM ecosystem (including insulin pumps and smart insulin pens, Apple Watch, Garmin and other digital health apps). Customizable alarms and alerts. Personalized alert schedule immediately warns the user of pending dangerous high and low blood sugar levels. Easy sensor application. Complete redesign of the sensor applicator allows for one-touch, simple self-insertion. Medication blocking. New feature allows for more accurate glucose readings without interference from common medications taken at typical indication doses, such as acetaminophen. Predictive low alert. Alert feature intended to predict hypoglycemia before it hits to help avoid dangerous low blood sugar events. Extended 10-day disposable sensor. 7 The G7 also has a number of new or improved features compared to our prior generation devices: An even more discreet and low profile. A redesigned transmitter makes for an all-in-one wearable combining our sensor and transmitter that is 60% smaller than the G6, making it even more comfortable and easier to wear under clothing. Faster warm up. 30-minute sensor warm up, fastest of any CGM on the market. Expanded time to replace sensors. 12-hour grace period to replace finished sensors for a more seamless transition between sessions. New mobile app. Redesigned and simplified mobile app with Dexcom Clarity integration. Improved alert settings for enhanced discretion at the user s option . Redesigned receiver. The optional receiver is smaller, with a more vibrant, easier to read display. New indications for use. Indicated in the United States for wear on the back of the upper arm for ages 2 years and older or the upper buttocks for ages 2-6 years old. Less waste. Smaller plastic components and packaging, resulting in less waste than the G6. Other than the foregoing, the G7 is generally consistent with our prior generation CGM systems in its technical capabilities and its indications. Since the G7 is classified by the FDA as a Class II device, it is subject to special controls and modifications of, or revisions to, the device may be made under the 510(k) process. Dexcom Stelo We are pursuing regulatory approvals for Dexcom Stelo, our first product designed specifically for people with type 2 diabetes who do not use insulin and are not at risk for hypoglycemia. Stelo was submitted for FDA review in the fourth quarter of 2023. Dexcom Share The Dexcom Share remote monitoring system, offered for use with any current Dexcom system, uses an app on the patient s compatible iPhone, iPod touch, iPad or Android mobile device to securely and wirelessly transmit glucose information to the cloud and then to apps on the mobile devices of up to five designated recipients, or followers, who can remotely monitor a patient s glucose information and receive alert notifications anywhere they have a wireless connection. A patient s glucose data can also be displayed on a patient s or follower s wearable device, such as the Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices, when used in conjunction with the patient s or follower s compatible iPhone or Android mobile device. Dexcom Real-Time API In July 2021, we received FDA marketing clearance for an iCGM system incorporating our Real-Time Application Programming Interfaces (API), which is an added software component that expands connectivity and interoperability of the Dexcom CGM digital ecosystem, enabling communication of iCGM data to client software intended to receive data through the cloud. Dexcom Real-Time API enables authorized third-party software developers to integrate real-time CGM data into their digital health apps and devices for specific and permitted use cases including non-medical device application, medical device data analysis, iCGM secondary display alarm, active patient monitoring, and treatment decisions. Real-Time API is not permitted for use in environments not currently cleared for the Dexcom CGM System (e.g., hospital inpatient care), and is not intended to be used by automated insulin delivery systems. Dexcom ONE In July 2021, we obtained CE Mark approval for our Dexcom ONE CGM system, or Dexcom ONE, which we have launched in several countries in Europe. Dexcom ONE consists of three main components: a sensor, a transmitter, and a display device consisting of either the Dexcom ONE app for users with a compatible mobile device, or a Dexcom ONE receiver. Dexcom ONE carries many of the same features as the G6, and is indicated for persons, including pregnant women, ages 2 years and older. Like our other CGM systems, Dexcom ONE is designed to replace finger stick blood glucose testing for diabetes treatment decisions. In November 2023, we obtained CE Mark approval for Dexcom ONE+. This updated version of our Dexcom ONE system builds upon the software experience of Dexcom ONE with certain additional features, while allowing customers to adopt the all-in-one wearable technology of our G7 CGM system. Data and Insulin Delivery Collaborations We have entered into multiple collaboration agreements that leverage our technology platform to integrate our CGM products with insulin delivery systems. The general purpose of these development and commercial relationships is 8 to integrate our technology into the insulin pump or pen product offerings of the respective partner, enabling the partner s insulin delivery device to receive and display glucose readings from our transmitter and, in some cases, use the glucose readings for semi-automated insulin delivery. We have existing insulin delivery partnerships, and we are also working with other companies that are pursuing varying strategies surrounding semi-automated insulin delivery and data analytics to improve outcomes and ease-of-use in diabetes management. We have also entered into collaborations with several organizations that are currently using, or are developing, programs for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes that utilize our current CGM systems. These collaborations align with the strategy to seek broader access to our CGM systems for people with Type 2 diabetes, including those who are not treated with intensive insulin therapy. Verily Collaboration Our Restated Collaboration Agreement with Verily Life Science LLC (an Alphabet Company) and Verily Ireland Limited (collectively, Verily) provides us with an exclusive license to use intellectual property of Verily resulting from the collaboration, and certain Verily patents, in the development, manufacture and commercialization of blood-based or interstitial glucose monitoring products more generally (subject to certain exclusions, which are outside the CGM field as it is commonly understood). It also provides us with non-exclusive license rights under Verily s other intellectual property rights to develop, manufacture, and commercialize those kinds of glucose monitoring products and certain CGM product companion software functionalities. In consideration of Verily s performance of its obligations under the joint development plan of the Restated Collaboration Agreement, the licenses granted to us and the amendment of the original agreement, we have made upfront, incentive, product regulatory approval milestone payments, and a sales-based milestone payment. In the future, we may make a potential additional milestone payment for a future sales-based milestone. At our election, we may make these payments in shares of our common stock or cash. If we elect to make a milestone payment in cash, any such cash payment would be equal to the number of shares that would otherwise be issued for the given milestone payment multiplied by the value of our stock on the date the relevant milestone is achieved, adjusted for stock splits, dividends, and the like. We intend to pay the remaining sales-based contingent milestone in shares of our common stock. See Note 2 Development and Other Agreements to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report and Exhibit 10.14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further description of the Restated Collaboration Agreement, including the number of shares of stock for milestone payments. Market Opportunity Diabetes Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for which there is no known cure and which has other significant adverse consequences for human health throughout the world. The disease is caused by the body s inability to produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin. This inability prevents the body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. Normally, the pancreas provides control of blood glucose levels by secreting the hormone insulin to decrease blood glucose levels when concentrations are too high. In people with diabetes, the body does not produce sufficient levels of insulin, or fails to utilize insulin effectively, causing blood glucose levels to rise above normal. This condition is called hyperglycemia and often results in acute complications as well as chronic long-term complications such as heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidn