Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 10 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2 Properties 22 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6 [Reserved] 24 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B Other Information 94 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 95 Item 11 Executive Compensation 95 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 95 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 95 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 95 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statements 95 Exhibit Index 96 Signatures 99 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate , plan , predict , seek , goal , will , may , likely , should , could (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, trends in our business, projections of markets relevant to our business, uncertain events and assumptions and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, statements related to our business, operations and financial results, industry prospects, our future financial performance, and our business plans and objectives, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management s current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report under the heading Risk Factors beginning on Page 10 . We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1: Business Overview Electronic Arts is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. We develop, market, publish and deliver games, content and services that can be experienced on game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. What We Offer At our core is a portfolio of intellectual property from which we create innovative games and content that enable us to build on-going and meaningful relationships with communities of players, creators and viewers. Our portfolio includes brands that we either wholly own (such as Apex Legends , Battlefield, and The Sims) or license from others (such as Madden NFL, Star Wars, and the 300+ licenses within our global football ecosystem). To grow our core business, we are focusing on innovation and new experiences for our franchises; building ongoing profitable and predictable revenue streams through live services, including our mobile business; and reaching more players whenever and wherever they want to play. We develop and publish games and services across diverse genres, such as sports, racing, first-person shooter, action, role-playing and simulation. We believe that our portfolio, live services offerings, use of multiple business models and distribution channels, and network of hundreds of millions of unique active accounts provide us with strategic advantages. These advantages include the opportunity to engage an increasing number of players across more distribution channels and geographies, and dependable sources of revenue from our annualized sports franchises (e.g., our global football franchise, Madden NFL, F1), our console, PC and mobile catalog titles, and our live services. We have added to the breadth of our portfolio in recent years by, among other things, launching Apex Legends , one of the most successful ongoing franchises in our industry, expanding the ways in which players can engage with The Sims 4 , adding new modes through which players can engage with our sports franchises and by bringing new experiences to our portfolio through mergers and acquisitions activity. The breadth of our portfolio provides sources of re-occurring revenue which contribute to stability in our financial results. Revenue from our global football franchise, including the annualized console and PC game which is consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace, as well as from FIFA Ultimate Team , is material to our business and will continue to be so. Starting in fiscal year 2024, our global football franchise will transition to a new EA SPORTS FC brand. Our vision for the future of interactive football with EA SPORTS FC is to create the largest football club in the world, and we believe this is the right opportunity for us so that we can continue delivering innovation and growing to connect more fans on a global scale for years to come. We also seek to add to our portfolio by investing in developing and establishing new brands, as well as investing in our partnerships with external game developers to create games and content that we bring to market. Live services net revenue, particularly extra content net revenue, has been material to our business, and we expect it to continue to be so. Through our live services offerings, we offer our players high-quality experiences designed to provide value to players and extend and enhance gameplay. These live services include extra content, subscription offerings and other revenue generated outside of the sale of our base games. Our digital live services and other net revenue represented 71 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2022. Our most popular live services are the extra content purchased for the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises and extra content purchased for our Apex Legends franchise. Ultimate Team allows players 3 Table of Contents to collect current and former professional players in order to build and compete as a personalized team. Live services net revenue generated from extra content purchased within Ultimate Team , a substantial portion of which was derived from FIFA Ultimate Team , and for our Apex Legends franchise, is material to our business. The strength of our mobile business has grown in recent years from net revenue of $727 million in fiscal year 2020 and $718 million in fiscal year 2021 to $1,059 million in fiscal year 2022. We expect new launches and acquired games, and live services as well as expertise and technologies leveraged across our portfolio, to drive further growth in mobile net revenue during fiscal year 2023. For example, we expect to launch Apex Legends Mobile , our first mobile experience based on the successful Apex Legends console and PC franchise in fiscal year 2023. And, in fiscal year 2022, we acquired Glu Mobile, Inc. and their portfolio of hit mobile franchises, as well as Playdemic Limited, makers of Golf Clash , one of the most successful ongoing mobile sports titles. These acquisitions bring new mobile franchises and live services, as well as the teams and technologies responsible for them, to our mobile portfolio and organization. We are focused on reaching more players whenever and wherever they want to play and promoting positive play as they engage with our games and services. We aim to offer safe, fun and inclusive environments in which to play. For example, in certain of our games and countries in which we operate, we provide players with information about their engagement and tools that allow players, or their parents, more control of their experiences. We also monitor gameplay for disruptive behaviors through reporting tools and detection models designed to flag offensive or inappropriate language and take action as needed. We believe that we can add value to our network by making it easier for players to connect to a world of play by offering choice of business model, distribution channel and device. Our games and services can be experienced on consoles, PCs, mobile phones, tablets, and reach our players through both digital distribution channels and retail channels. Players can access our games and services through traditional single-game purchase or through subscription offerings; and certain of our games and services are available through a free-to-play model whereby players download the game for free and engage with services provided on an ongoing basis. For example, we develop products and services within our global football franchise that allow players to engage through multiple business models, distribution channels and devices, including: (1) our annualized console and PC games and associated services, which can be purchased through both digital distribution and retail channels and also is available through subscription services; (2) FIFA Mobile , a mobile free-to-play offering; and (3) FIFA Online , a PC free-to-play game available in certain countries. Digitally, our console games and live services can be purchased through third-party storefronts, such as the digital stores of our console partners. Our direct sales to Sony and Microsoft represented approximately 33 percent and 16 percent of total net revenue, respectively, in fiscal year 2022. Our mobile and tablet games and services are available through third-party application storefronts such as the Apple App Store and Google Play. Our PC games and services can be downloaded directly through Origin, EA s digital storefront, as well as through third-party online download stores, such as Steam. We also partner with third parties to publish our mobile and PC games and services in certain Asian territories, such as our partnerships with Tencent Holdings Limited for FIFA Online in China and Nexon Co. Ltd. for FIFA Online in Korea. From time to time, third parties will publish games and services under a license to certain of our intellectual property assets. We also offer our EA Play subscription service on consoles and PC as we look to build deeper relationships with our players and offer increased choice and flexibility for our players to try new games. EA Play allows players access to a selection of our console and PC games and services for a monthly or annual fee. Our packaged goods games are sold directly to mass market retailers, specialty stores and through distribution arrangements. New distribution methods and business models are expected to continue to emerge in the future, and we intend to evaluate these opportunities on a case-by-case basis. Our Future Opportunity We believe that the future of entertainment is interactive and that the consumption of entertainment and sports is deeply social, with players across our network using games to stay connected to friends, and to express themselves. While we continue to anchor our business on delivering amazing content and services to more players whenever and wherever they want to play, our goal is to build from our core alongside these secular shifts and invest in new areas of opportunity which we believe will translate into sustained growth. These include: Providing creation tools for the community to engage more deeply with our content and experiences; Aggregating and distributing our content and experiences to more players, on more platforms, in more geographies, and more business models; and Harnessing the power of the social ecosystems in and around our games. 4 Table of Contents We believe that our future growth will be influenced by our ability to realize the potential of our core while at the same time creating growth around that core. We aspire to create socially-connected ecosystems through which players can access amazing content, experiences, and tools that allow everyone to play, watch and create together. Significant Relationships Sony Microsoft . Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC and its affiliates and with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop, market, publish, and distribute disc-based products and services, and we authorize Sony and Microsoft to distribute our digital products and services, compatible with PlayStation and Xbox consoles, respectively. Under these agreements with Sony and Microsoft, we have the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned or licensed by them to publish our games on their respective consoles. With respect to our digitally-delivered products and services, the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a royalty percentage on the revenue they derive from their sales of our products and services. Our transactions for packaged goods products are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony or Microsoft (or their designated replicators), as the case may be. For packaged goods products, we pay the console manufacturers a per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured. Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony and Microsoft such as manufacturing terms, delivery times, policies and approval conditions are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. The license agreements also require us to indemnify the console manufacturers for any loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the console manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the console manufacturer. Each license may be terminated by the console manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the console manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The console manufacturers are not obligated to enter into license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services. Apple, Google and Other App Stores . We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications and additional content through distributors such as Apple and Google. Our applications are downloaded for mobile devices from third party application storefronts. The distributor charges consumers for content purchased within the application or charges consumers a one-time fee to download the application. Our distribution agreements establish the amounts that are retained by the distributor and the amounts passed through to us. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications. Publishing Partners in Asia . We have entered into agreements whereby we partner with certain companies, including Tencent Holdings Limited and Nexon Co., Ltd. or their respective affiliates, pursuant to which these companies publish our mobile and PC free-to-play games in certain countries, including China and Korea. Our players access games from the publishers online storefronts and are charged for additional content purchased within our game environment. The agreements generally establish the amounts that are retained by the publisher, and the amounts passed through to us. Competition The market for interactive entertainment is intensely competitive and changes rapidly as new products, business models and distribution channels are introduced. We also face competition for the right to use certain intellectual property included in our products. In order to remain successful, we are required to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, the ways in which our products and services will compete in the market. We face significant competition from companies such as Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, Ubisoft, Epic Games, Tencent, NetEase, Netmarble, Warner Brothers, Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, primarily with respect to developing games and services that operate on consoles, PCs and/or mobile devices. In addition, the gaming, technology/internet, social networking and entertainment industries have converged in recent years which has brought us into more direct competition with larger, well-funded technology companies such as Amazon.com, Inc., Alphabet Inc., Meta Platforms, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, and Netflix, Inc. These companies have strengthened their interactive entertainment capabilities, and we expect them to continue to do so. Their greater financial and other resources may provide larger budgets to develop and market tools, technologies, products and services that gain consumer success and shift player time and engagement away from our products and services. We also continue to expect new entrants to emerge. More broadly, we compete against providers of different sources of entertainment, such as movies, television, online casual entertainment and music that our players could enjoy in their free time. Important competitive factors in our industry include the ability to attract creative and technical talent, game quality and ease of use, innovation, compatibility of products with certain consoles and other distribution channels, brand recognition, reputation, reliability, security, creativity, price, marketing, and quality of customer service. 5 Table of Contents Recently, our industry has undergone a period of increased consolidation which increases competitive pressure on us as interactive entertainment companies grow through acquisition such as Take Two Interactive s recent acquisition of Zynga or as larger, well-funded technology companies strengthen their interactive entertainment capabilities such as Microsoft s recently announced definitive agreement to acquire Activision Blizzard. Intellectual Property and Technology To establish and protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, patents, patent applications, trade secrets, know-how, license agreements, confidentiality provisions and procedures and other contractual provisions. We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, but the laws of some countries in which we operate, particularly in Asia, either do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States or are poorly enforced. As our digital business has grown, our games and services increasingly depend on the reliability, availability and security of our technological infrastructure. Our industry is prone to, and our systems and networks are subject to actions by malfeasant actors, such as cyber-attacks and other information security incidents, including ransomware attacks. While we devote financial and operational resources to implement systems, processes and technologies to guard against cyber events and to help protect our intellectual property, employee and consumer data and information technology systems against intrusions or other security breaches, we have experienced such events in the past and expect future events to occur. In addition, we engage in activities designed to limit the impact of abuse of our digital products and services, including monitoring our games for evidence of exploitation and re-balancing our game environments in the event that such abuse is discovered. Governmental Regulation We are a global company subject to various and complex laws and regulations domestically and internationally, including laws and regulations related to gaming, user privacy, data collection and retention, consumer protection, protection of minors, online safety, content, advertising, localization, information security, intellectual property, competition, sanctions, addressing climate change, taxation, and employment, among others. Many of these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing, and the application to, and impact on, us is uncertain. Certain of our business models are subject to new laws or regulations or evolving interpretations and application of existing laws and regulations, including those related to gambling. The growth and development of electronic commerce, virtual items and virtual currency has prompted calls for new laws and regulations and resulted in the application of existing laws or regulations that have limited or restricted the sale of our products and services in certain territories. Seasonality We have historically experienced the highest percentage of our net bookings in our third fiscal quarter due to seasonal holiday demand and the launch timing of our games. While we expect this trend to continue in fiscal year 2023, there is no assurance that it will. Human Capital An inclusive, healthy and safe culture and diverse and engaged workforce is essential to our ability to execute our growth opportunities and build on-going and meaningful relationships with our communities. As a knowledge-based business, our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and services. As of March 31, 2022, we employed approximately 12,900 people globally, with 64 percent located internationally. Our Board and its Committees oversee our human capital management programs, practices and strategies and additional information on how they oversee these matters can be found in our annual Proxy Statement. We are focused on supporting our employees across the full employee lifecycle and have implemented programs and practices designed to promote inclusion and diversity, employee engagement and employee wellness. For example, we support employee resource groups ( ERGs ) which are a critical component of our people strategy, bringing together employees with common interests or backgrounds to develop themselves personally and professionally, as well as supporting the Company s goals and objectives. Our ERGs also celebrate allyship, a critical component for connecting employees and creating a sense of belonging. In addition, to support our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, we have enhanced our programs to provide additional temporary support, including payments to assist with work from home costs and care needs, a pandemic care leave program, and additional services for mental and physical health. 6 Table of Contents Inclusion and Diversity The global market for our products and services is diverse. We believe that a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace that creates representative games and promotes positive play will engage a greater audience and lead to growth in our business. And, creating amazing games and services starts with a workplace that is as diverse as the communities we serve. We work to embed inclusion across our systems and processes in order to (1) attract, develop and retain talent that can thrive and do their best work, (2) develop relatable content and games, (3) enable expansion into new and diverse markets and (4) bridge to better representation that authentically reflects players around the world. Our most recently published Company-wide gender and racial/ethnic representation, as well as our EEO-1 report (U.S. government reporting), are available on our website at https://www.ea.com/commitments/inclusion-and-diversity. To accelerate our progress with respect to representation, we strive to (1) create inclusive people systems and practices with diversity, equity and inclusion at the center, (2) create a belonging culture that welcomes different viewpoints and enables employees to do the best work of their careers, and (3) equip leaders with training and education that increases understanding and provides tools and behaviors to be inclusive managers. Our commitments to inclusion, diversity and equity extend to compensating our employees fairly based on the work that they perform. We consider our pay equity philosophy at each stage at which compensation decisions are made, including when hiring and promoting employees and through our annual review cycle. In addition, we annually partner with an independent outside firm to review employees pay and promote fairness and a lack of unconscious bias in our compensation philosophy and practices, resulting in equitable base pay. Talent Acquisition, Development and Retention Our talent planning and hiring strategies are aligned with our strategic vision. We are building a diverse and talented workforce to shape the future of our business, and are committed to the development and growth of the next generation of diverse talent through community outreach and STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) education. We are dedicated to recruitment, hiring and development practices that promote the growth of underrepresented talent. Substantially all of our hiring includes diverse candidates in the initial pool, and we go further by setting aspirational targets for the inclusion of candidates from underrepresented communities at later stages of the recruiting process that we believe can lead to better outcomes. This strategic focus on hiring has led to positive hiring outcomes, including at the executive level. In each of the last four years, we have hired underrepresented talent above our current representation rates. We are focused on promoting the total wellness of our people and maintain resources, programs and services to support employees' physical, mental, familial and financial health. We offer a wide range of benefits, such as comprehensive health insurance and time-off and leave programs, including specialized programs around key life events. All regular, full-time employees are asked to complete an Engagement Survey twice per year, which helps EA understand how to improve the employee experience. 81 percent of employees participated in our most recent Engagement Survey, conducted in December 2021. We also conduct regular manager surveys, and during fiscal year 2022, offered ongoing access to targeted surveys to better understand the needs of our employees as they navigated the COVID-19 pandemic. Results of all employee surveys are evaluated and shared across the organization, including with our Board of Directors, and inform opportunities for further improvement in our people practices. Investor Information Our website address is www.ea.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We announce material financial information and business updates through our SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts, the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com, our blog at https://www.ea.com/news and through our Twitter account @EA. Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website, 2021 Impact Report and/or social media accounts are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report. 7 Table of Contents Company Information We were incorporated originally in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500. Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 25, 2022: Name Age Position Andrew Wilson 47 Chief Executive Officer, Chair of the Board Christopher Suh 51 Chief Financial Officer Laura Miele 52 Chief Operating Officer Kenneth Moss 56 Chief Technology Officer Christopher Bruzzo 52 Chief Experience Officer Mala Singh 51 Chief People Officer Jacob J. Schatz 53 Chief Legal Officer Corporate Secretary Eric Kelly 50 Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Mr. Wilson has served as EA s Chief Executive Officer and as a director of EA since September 2013 and was appointed Chair of the Board of Directors in August 2021. Prior to his appointment as our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wilson held several positions within the Company since joining EA in May 2000, including Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS from August 2011 to September 2013. Mr. Wilson also serves as chairman of the board of the privately-held World Surf League and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Paley Center for Media. Mr. Wilson has served on the board of directors of Intel Corporation within the last five years. Mr. Suh has served as EA's Chief Financial Officer since March 2022. Prior to joining EA, Mr. Suh had a 25-year career at Microsoft Corporation, a technology company, serving most recently as Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of its Cloud AI division from January 2018 to February 2022 and as General Manager, Investor Relations from January 2013 to January 2018. Mr. Suh received both his MBA and undergraduate degrees from the University of Washington . Mr. Suh also serves on the Board of Directors of Cardlytics, Inc. Ms. Miele has served as EA's Chief Operating Officer since October 2021. Ms. Miele joined the Co