Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 9 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2 Properties 21 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 37 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 84 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 84 Item 9B Other Information 85 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 86 Item 11 Executive Compensation 86 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 86 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 86 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 86 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statements 86 Exhibit Index 88 Signatures 91 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate , plan , predict , seek , goal , will , may , likely , should , could (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, trends in our business, projections of markets relevant to our business, uncertain events and assumptions and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, statements related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to our business, operations and financial results, industry prospects, our future financial performance, and our business plans and objectives, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management s current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report under the heading Risk Factors beginning on page 9. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1: Business Overview Electronic Arts is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. We develop, market, publish and deliver games, content and services that can be played and watched on game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. Our Strategic Pillars Our strategy is to create amazing games and content, powered by services, delivered to a large, global audience. We believe that the breadth and depth of our portfolio, live services offerings, and our use of multiple business models and distribution channels provide us with strategic advantages. These advantages include the opportunity to engage an increasing number of players across more distribution channels and geographies, and dependable sources of revenue from our annualized sports franchises (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL), our console, PC and mobile catalog titles (i.e., titles that did not launch in the current fiscal year), and our live services. Amazing Games and Content, Powered by Services Our foundation is a portfolio of intellectual property from which we create innovative games and content that enables us to build on-going and meaningful relationships with communities of players, creators and viewers. Our portfolio includes brands that we either wholly own (such as Battlefield, The Sims, Apex Legends, Need for Speed and Plants v. Zombies) or license from others (such as FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars). We develop and publish games and services across diverse genres, such as sports, first-person shooter, action, role-playing and simulation. We have added to the breadth of our portfolio in recent years by, among other things, launching Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order , a single-player action-adventure game based in the Star Wars universe, and Apex Legends , our first free-to-play console game, as well as by expanding the ways in which players can engage with The Sims 4 . The depth of our portfolio is demonstrated by providing players with opportunities for choice within genres and franchises. For example, our sports portfolio includes the FIFA (soccer), Madden NFL (American football), NHL (ice hockey), and UFC (ultimate fighting) franchises, among others. And within our franchises we have innovated by providing multiple modalities of play designed to satisfy the various motivations of our players. For example, within FIFA 20 , in addition to the professional soccer simulation base game, players can also engage with FIFA Ultimate Team , designed for players motivated by competition and self-improvement as well as VOLTA FOOTBALL , designed for players that play for social connection and self-expression. FIFA is our largest and most popular game and franchise, and the annualized console and PC game is consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace. Net revenue from FIFA 20 , FIFA 19 , and FIFA 18 represented approximately 12 percent of our total net revenue in fiscal year 2020, approximately 14 percent of our total net revenue in fiscal year 2019 and approximately 11 percent of our total net revenue in fiscal year 2018, respectively. We seek to add to the breadth and depth of our portfolio by investing in developing and establishing new brands as well as investing in our partnerships with external game developers to create games and content that we bring to market. 3 Table of Contents In addition, through our live services offerings, we offer our players high-quality experiences designed to provide value to players and extend and enhance gameplay. These live services include extra content, subscription offerings and other revenue generated outside of the sale of our base games. Our digital live services net revenue represented 51 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2020. We expect that live services net revenue, particularly extra content net revenue, will continue to be material to our business. Our most popular live service is the extra content purchased within the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises. Ultimate Team allows players to collect current and former professional players in order to build, and compete as, a personalized team. Net revenue from Ultimate Team represented approximately 27 percent, 28 percent and 23 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a substantial portion of which was derived from FIFA Ultimate Team . In addition, in fiscal year 2020, we provided players with additional engagement opportunities through new maps, vehicles and more in Battlefield V , new ways to play across eras in Star Wars Battlefront II , launched four seasons of content for Apex Legends and released five additional content packs for The Sims 4 on PC. Within our games and live services, we offer additional services that are designed to connect players to their friends and to the games they love, such as access to online marketplaces and in-game player rewards and achievements, which such services do not directly monetize. We also are investing in a number of long-term service-based initiatives that we believe will allow us to better serve and deepen our engagement with our players, such as an infrastructure that will enable us to better deliver content that will resonate with players and provide more choice in the way that players connect with their games, with each other, and with new types of content, and our esports initiatives . We believe that the interest and enthusiasm that surrounds esports will drive engagement and monetization in our products and services in addition to providing revenue opportunities through partnerships with sponsors and broadcasters. Delivered to a Large, Global Audience We are focused on reaching more players whenever and wherever they want to play. We believe that we can add value to our network by making it easier for players to connect to a world of play by offering choice of business model, distribution channel and device. Our games and services can be played and watched on consoles, PCs, mobile phones, tablets, and reach our players through both digital distribution channels and retail channels. Players can access our games and services through traditional single-game purchase or through our subscription offerings; and certain of our games and services are available through a free-to-play model whereby players download the game for free and engage with services provided on an ongoing basis. For example, we develop products and services within the FIFA franchise that allow players to engage with FIFA through multiple business models, distribution channels and devices, including: (1) our annualized console and PC games and associated services, which can be purchased through both digital distribution and retail channels and also is available through our subscription services; (2) FIFA Mobile , a mobile free-to-play offering; and (3) FIFA Online , a PC free-to-play game available in certain Asian countries. Digitally, our console games and live services can be purchased through third-party storefronts, such as the digital stores of our console partners Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. Our direct sales to Sony and Microsoft represented approximately 32 percent and 17 percent of total net revenue, respectively, in fiscal year 2020; approximately 29 percent and 16 percent of total net revenue, respectively, in fiscal year 2019; and approximately 27 percent and 16 percent of total net revenue, respectively, in fiscal year 2018. Our mobile and tablet games and services are available through third-party application storefronts such as the Apple App Store and Google Play. Our PC games and services can be downloaded directly through Origin, EA s digital storefront, as well as through third-party online download stores, such as Steam. We also partner with third parties to publish our mobile and PC games and services in certain Asian territories, such as our partnerships with Tencent Holdings Limited and Nexon Co. Ltd. for FIFA Online in China and Korea, respectively. From time to time, third parties will publish mobile and tablet games and services under a license to certain of our intellectual property assets. We also offer subscription services, such as EA Access on consoles and Origin Access and Origin Access Premier on PC as we look to build deeper relationships with our players and offer increased choice and flexibility for our players to try new games. These subscription services allow players access to a selection of our console and PC games and services for a monthly or annual fee. In fiscal year 2020, we expanded our subscription offerings by bringing our EA Access subscription service to the Sony distribution channel and expect to expand our Origin Access subscription service to more distribution channels in fiscal year 2021. Our packaged goods games are sold directly to mass market retailers, specialty stores and through distribution arrangements. New distribution methods and business models are expected to continue to emerge in the future, and we intend to evaluate these opportunities on a case-by-case basis. 4 Table of Contents Significant Relationships Sony Microsoft . Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates and with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disc-based and digitally-delivered software products and services compatible with PlayStation and Xbox consoles, respectively. Under these agreements with Sony and Microsoft, we have the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned or licensed by them to publish our games on their respective consoles. With respect to our digitally-delivered products and services, the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a royalty percentage on the revenue they derive from their sales of our products and services. Our transactions for packaged goods products are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony or Microsoft (or their designated replicators), as the case may be. For packaged goods products, we pay the console manufacturers a per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured. Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony and Microsoft such as manufacturing terms, delivery times, policies and approval conditions are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. The license agreements also require us to indemnify the console manufacturers for any loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the console manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the console manufacturer. Each license may be terminated by the console manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the console manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The console manufacturers are not obligated to enter into license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services. Apple, Google and Other App Stores . We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications and additional content through distributors such as Apple and Google. Our applications are downloaded for mobile devices from third party application storefronts. The distributor charges consumers for content purchased within the application or charges consumers a one-time fee to download the application. Our distribution agreements establish the amounts that are retained by the distributor and the amounts passed through to us. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications. Publishing Partners in Asia . We have entered into agreements whereby we partner with certain companies, including Tencent Holdings Limited and Nexon Co., Ltd. or their respective affiliates, pursuant to which these companies publish our mobile and PC free-to-play games in certain Asian territories, including China and Korea. Our players access games from the publishers online storefronts and are charged for additional content purchased within our game environment. The agreements generally establish the amounts that are retained by the publisher, and the amounts passed through to us. Competition The market for interactive entertainment is intensely competitive and changes rapidly as new products, business models and distribution channels are introduced. We also face competition for the right to use certain intellectual property included in our products. In order to remain successful, we are required to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, the ways in which our products and services will compete in the market. We face significant competition from companies such as Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, Ubisoft, Bethesda, Epic Games, NetEase, Tencent, Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, primarily with respect to developing games and services that operate on consoles, PCs and/or mobile devices. In addition, broader technology companies with significant resources, including Google, Apple and Amazon, are pursuing initiatives in our industry that may compete with us. More broadly, we compete against providers of different sources of entertainment, such as movies, television, social networking, online casual entertainment and music that our players could enjoy in their free time. Important competitive factors in our industry include the ability to attract creative and technical talent, game quality and ease of use, innovation, compatibility of products with certain consoles and other distribution channels, brand recognition, reputation, reliability, security, creativity, price, marketing, and quality of customer service. Intellectual Property and Technology To establish and protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, patents, patent applications, trade secrets, know-how, license agreements, confidentiality provisions and procedures and other contractual provisions. We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, but the laws of some countries in which we operate, particularly in Asia, either do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States or are poorly enforced. As our digital business has grown, our games and services increasingly depend on the reliability, availability and security of our technological infrastructure. Our industry is prone to, and our systems and 5 Table of Contents networks are subject to actions by malfeasant actors, such as cyber-attacks and other information security incidents. While we devote financial and operational resources to implement systems, processes and technologies to guard against cyber events and to help protect our intellectual property, employee and consumer data and information technology systems against intrusions or other security breaches, we have experienced such events in the past and expect future events to occur. In addition, we engage in activities designed to limit the impact of abuse of our digital products and services, including monitoring our games for evidence of exploitation and re-balancing our game environments in the event that such abuse is discovered. Governmental Regulation We are a global company subject to various and complex laws and regulations domestically and internationally, including laws and regulations related to user privacy, data collection and retention, consumer protection, protection of minors, content, advertising, localization, information security, intellectual property, competition and taxation, among others. Many of these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing, and the application to, and impact on, us is uncertain. Certain of our business models are subject to new laws or regulations or evolving interpretations and application of existing laws and regulations, including those related to gambling. The growth and development of electronic commerce, virtual items and virtual currency has prompted calls for new laws and regulations and resulted in the application of existing laws or regulations that have limited or restricted the sale of our products and services in certain territories. Seasonality We have historically experienced the highest percentage of our net bookings in our third fiscal quarter due to seasonal holiday demand and the launch timing of our games. While we expect this trend to continue in fiscal year 2021, there is no assurance that it will. Employees As of March 31, 2020, we had approximately 9,800 regular, full-time employees, over 6,000 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and services and that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue attracting, training, motivating and retaining qualified employees. Approximately 7 percent of our employees, all of whom work for our DICE development studio in Sweden, are represented by a union. Investor Information Our website address is www.ea.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). We announce material financial information and business updates through our SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts, the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com, our blog at https://www.ea.com/news and through our Twitter account @EA. Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website and/or social media accounts are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report. Company Information We were incorporated originally in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500. 6 Table of Contents Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 20, 2020: Name Age Position Andrew Wilson 45 Chief Executive Officer Blake Jorgensen 60 Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer Laura Miele 50 Chief Studios Officer Kenneth Moss 54 Chief Technology Officer Christopher Bruzzo 50 Chief Marketing Officer Joel Linzner 68 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Business Affairs Mala Singh 49 Chief People Officer Matthew Bilbey 44 Executive Vice President of Strategic Growth Kenneth A. Barker 53 Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Jacob J. Schatz 51 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Mr. Wilson has served as EA s Chief Executive Officer and as a director of EA since September 2013. Prior to his appointment as our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wilson held several positions within the Company since joining EA in May 2000, including Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS from August 2011 to September 2013. Mr. Wilson also serves as a director of Intel Corporation, is chairman of the board of the privately-held World Surf League and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Paley Center for Media. Mr. Jorgensen has served as EA s Chief Financial Officer since September 2012 and as EA s Chief Operating Officer since April 2018. Prior to joining EA, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Levi Strauss Co. from July 2009 to August 2012. From June 2007 to June 2009, Mr. Jorgensen served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Yahoo! Inc. Mr. Jorgensen earned his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and his undergraduate degree from Stanford University. Ms. Miele has served as EA s Chief Studios Officer since April 2018. Ms. Miele joined EA in March 1996 and has held several positions at the Company, including Executive Vice President, Global Publishing from April 2016 to April 2018, Senior Vice President of Americas Publishing from June 2014 to April 2016, and several senior roles in the Company's marketing organization. Mr. Moss has served as EA s Chief Technology Officer since July 2014. He served as Vice President of Market Places Technology, Science and Data at eBay Inc. from November 2011 to July 2014. Prior to joining eBay, he co-founded CrowdEye, Inc. and served as its Chief Executive Officer from October 2008 to November 2011. Mr. Moss graduated from Princeton University. Mr. Bruzzo has served as EA s Chief Marketing Officer since September 2014. Prior to joining EA, he served as Senior Vice President at Starbucks Corporation from June 2011 to August 2014. Mr. Bruzzo graduated from Whitworth University. Mr. Linzner has served as EA s Executive Vice President, Worldwide Business Affairs since April 2016. From March 2005 until April 2016, Mr. Linzner was EA's Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs. Prior to joining EA in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to EA and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from Boalt Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. Ms. Singh has served as EA s Chief People Officer since October 2016. Ms. Singh was previously employed by EA from 2009 to 2013, serving as Vice President, Human Resources, EA Labels from 2011 to 2013. Prior to rejoining EA, Ms. Singh served as the Chief People Officer of Minted, LLC from January 2014 to October 2016. Ms. Singh earned both her undergraduate and graduate degrees from Rutgers University - New Brunswick. Mr. Bilbey has served as EA s Executive Vice President of Strategic Growth since April 2018. Mr. Bilbey joined EA in 1995 and has held several positions within the Company, including Chief Operating Officer, Worldwide Studios from August 2016 to April 2018 and Senior Vice President, Group General Manager from November 2013 to January 2017. Mr. Barker has served as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer since June 2003. From February 2012 to September 2012, he also served as Interim Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining EA, Mr. Barker was at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as its Vice 7 Table of Contents President and Corporate Controller and at Deloitte Touche as an audit partner. Mr. Barker serves on the Board of Directors of Gatepath, a non-profit organization, and on the Accounting Advisory Board for the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Schatz has served as EA s General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since June 2014. Mr. Schatz joined EA in 1999, and prior to his current role, he served as Deputy General Counsel and as Vice President from 2006 to 2014. Mr. Schatz earned his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center, and received his undergraduate degree from Pomona College. Mr. Schatz is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts. 8 Table of Contents Item 1A: Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. In the past, we have experienced certain of the events and circumstances described below, which adversely impacted our business and financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business or financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe could be material that may harm our business or financial performance. Our business is intensely competitive. We may not deliver successful and engaging products and services, or consumers may prefer our competitors products or services over our own. Competition in our business is intense. Many new products and services are regularly introduced, but only a relatively small number of products and associated services drive significant engagement and account for a significant portion of total revenue. Our competitors range from established interactive entertainment companies and diversified media companies to emerging start-ups, and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge throughout the world. If our competitors develop and market more successful and engaging products or services, offer competitive products or services at lower price points, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality, well-received and engaging products and services, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. We strive to create innovative and high-quality products and services that allow us to build on-going and meaningful relationships with our community. However, innovative and high-quality titles, even if highly-reviewed, may not meet our expectations. Many financially successful products and services within our industry are iterations of prior titles with large established consumer bases and significant brand recognition, which makes competing in certain categories challenging. In addition, products or services of our direct competitors or other entertainment companies may take a larger portion of consumer spending or time than we anticipate, which could cause our products and services to underperform relative to our expectations. A significant portion of our revenue historically has been derived from products and services based on a few popular franchises, and the underperformance of a single major title has had, and could in the future have, a material adverse impact on our financial results. For example, we have historically derived a significant portion of our net revenue from sales related to our largest and most popular game, FIFA, annualized versions of which are consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace. Any events or circumstances that negatively impact our FIFA franchise, such as product or service quality, competing products that take a portion of consumer spending and time, the delay or cancellation of a product or service launch, or real or perceived security risks could negatively impact our financial results to a disproportionate extent. The increased importance of live services, including extra content, to our business heightens the risks associated with the products for which such live services are offered. Live services that are either poorly-received or provided in connection with underperforming games may generate lower than expected sales. Any lapse, delay