Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 8 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 1C C yber security 17 Item 2 Properties 17 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6 [Reserved] 19 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 33 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B Other Information 79 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 80 Item 11 Executive Compensation 80 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 80 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statements 80 Exhibit Index 81 Signatures 84 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate , believe , expect , intend , estimate , plan , predict , seek , goal , will , may , likely , should , could , continue , potential (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, trends in our business, projections of markets relevant to our business, uncertain events and assumptions and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, statements related to our business, operations and financial results, industry prospects, our future financial performance, and our business plans and objectives, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management s current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report under the heading Risk Factors beginning on Page 8. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1: Business Overview Electronic Arts is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. We develop, market, publish and deliver games, content and services that can be experienced on game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. What We Offer At our core is a portfolio of intellectual property from which we create innovative games and experiences that deliver high-quality interactive entertainment and drive engagement across our global network of hundreds of millions of unique active accounts. Our portfolio includes Intellectual Property (IP) that we either wholly own (such as Apex Legends , Battlefield, and The Sims) or license from others (such as the licenses within EA SPORTS FC and EA SPORTS Madden NFL). We are focusing on building games and experiences that grow the global online communities around our key franchises; deepening engagement through connecting interactive storytelling to key intellectual property; and building re-occurring revenue from scaling our live services and growth in our annualized sports franchises, our console, PC and mobile catalog titles. We develop and publish games and services across diverse genres, such as sports, racing, first-person shooter, action, role-playing and simulation. We believe that our portfolio of IP, talented teams and culture of innovation, technological foundation, and live service offerings, coupled with our network of hundreds of millions of unique active accounts, provide us with strategic advantages. Revenue from our global football franchise, which is consistently one of the top franchises in the marketplace and includes the annualized console, PC and mobile games, as well as FC Ultimate Team , is material to our business and will continue to be so. During fiscal year 2024, we successfully launched EA SPORTS FC, with players connecting, competing and celebrating global football through our multi-experience ecosystem. We expect to continue to create and innovate across platforms, geographies, and business models to expand our global football experiences and entertain even more fans around the world. Live services net revenue, particularly extra content net revenue, has been material to our business, and we expect it to continue to be so. Through our live services offerings, we offer our players high-quality experiences designed to provide value to players and extend and enhance gameplay. These live services include extra content, subscription offerings and other revenue generated outside of the sale of our full game sales. Our digital live services and other net revenue represented 73 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2024. Our most popular live services are the extra content purchased for the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises and extra content purchased for our Apex Legends franchise. Ultimate Team allows players to collect current and former professional players in order to build and compete as a personalized team. Live services net revenue generated from extra content purchased within Ultimate Team , a substantial portion of which was derived from FC Ultimate Team, and for our Apex Legends franchise, is material to our business. We believe that we can add value to our network by making it easier for players to connect by offering choices of business model, distribution channel and device. Our games and services can be experienced on consoles, PCs, mobile phones, and tablets, and reach our players through both digital distribution channels and retail channels. Players can access our games and services through traditional single-game purchase or through subscription offerings; and certain of our games and services are available through a free-to-play model whereby players download the game for free and engage with services provided on an 3 Table of Contents ongoing basis. For example, we develop products and services within the EA SPORTS FC franchise that allow players to engage through multiple business models, distribution channels and devices, including: (1) our annualized console and PC games and associated services, which can be purchased through both digital distribution and retail channels and also are available through subscription services; (2) a mobile free-to-play offering; and (3) a PC free-to-play game available in certain countries. Digitally, our console games and live services can be purchased through third-party storefronts, such as the digital stores of our console partners. Our direct sales to Sony and Microsoft represented approximately 37 percent and 16 percent of total net revenue, respectively, in fiscal year 2024. Our mobile and tablet games and services are available through third-party application storefronts such as the Apple App Store and Google Play. Our PC games and services can be downloaded directly through the EA app, EA s digital storefront, as well as through third-party online download stores, such as Steam. We also partner with third parties to publish our mobile and PC games and services in certain Asian territories, such as our partnerships with Tencent Holdings Limited for FC Online 4 in China and Nexon Co. Ltd. for FC Online 4 in Korea. From time to time, third parties will publish games and services under a license to certain of our intellectual property assets. We also offer our EA Play subscription service on consoles and PC. EA Play allows players access to a selection of our console and PC games and services for a monthly or annual fee. Our packaged goods games are sold directly to mass market retailers, specialty stores and through distribution arrangements. New distribution methods and business models are expected to continue to emerge in the future, and we intend to evaluate these opportunities on a case-by-case basis. We believe that the future of entertainment is interactive and that the consumption of entertainment and sports is deeply social. We are investing towards a future of accelerated content generation and increased player engagement - with players across our network using games to stay connected to friends, and to express themselves. While we continue to anchor our business on delivering amazing content and services to more players, our goal is to build from our core and invest in new areas of opportunity. Significant Relationships Sony Microsoft . Under the terms of publishing agreements we have entered into with Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC and its affiliates and with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop, market, publish, and distribute disc-based products and services, and we authorize Sony and Microsoft to distribute our digital products and services, compatible with PlayStation and Xbox consoles, respectively. Under these agreements with Sony and Microsoft, we have the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned or licensed by them to publish our games on their respective consoles. With respect to our digitally-delivered products and services, the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a royalty percentage on the revenue they derive from their sales of our products and services. Our transactions for packaged goods products are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony or Microsoft (or their designated replicators), as the case may be. For packaged goods products, we pay the console manufacturers a per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured. Many key commercial terms of our relationships with Sony and Microsoft such as manufacturing terms, delivery times, policies and approval conditions are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. The publishing agreements also require us to indemnify the console manufacturers for any loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim against the console manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the console manufacturer. Each agreement may be terminated by the console manufacturer if a breach or default by us is not cured after we receive written notice from the console manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The console manufacturers are not obligated to enter into license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services. Apple, Google and Other App Stores . We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications and additional content through distributors such as Apple and Google. Our applications are downloaded for mobile devices from third party application storefronts. The distributor collects payment from consumers for content purchased within the application or charges consumers a one-time fee to download the application. Our distribution agreements establish the amounts that are retained by the distributor and the amounts passed through to us. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of our applications. Application storefront policies are determined unilaterally by the distributors and are subject to change. Publishing Partners in Asia . We have entered into agreements whereby we partner with certain companies, including Tencent Holdings Limited, Nexon Co., Ltd and Garena Online Private Limited. or their respective affiliates, pursuant to which these 4 Table of Contents companies publish our mobile and PC free-to-play games in certain countries, including China, Korea, Japan and certain countries in Southeast Asia. Our players access games from the publishers online storefronts and are charged for additional content purchased within our game environment. The agreements generally establish the amounts that are retained by the publisher, and the amounts passed through to us. Competition The market for interactive entertainment is intensely competitive and changes rapidly as new products, business models and distribution channels are introduced. We also face competition for the right to license certain intellectual property included in our products. In order to remain successful, we are required to anticipate and commit, sometimes years in advance, the ways in which our products and services will compete in the market. We face significant competition from companies that focus on developing games and services available on consoles, PCs and/or mobile devices. In addition, the gaming, technology/internet, and entertainment industries are converging, and we compete with large, diversified companies in those industries. These companies have strengthened their interactive entertainment capabilities, and we expect them to continue to do so. Their greater financial and other resources may provide larger budgets to develop and market tools, technologies, products and services that gain consumer success and shift player time and engagement away from our products and services. We also continue to expect new entrants to emerge. More broadly, we compete against providers of different sources of entertainment, such as movies, television, online casual entertainment and music that our players could enjoy in their free time. Important competitive factors in our industry include the ability to attract creative and technical talent, game quality and ease of use, innovation, compatibility of products with certain consoles and other distribution channels, brand recognition, reputation, reliability, security, creativity, price, marketing, and quality of customer service. Risks related to competitive factors affecting our business are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Research and Development Because the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances, our ability to compete successfully is linked to our ability to deliver a flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. We have teams focused on developing new technologies to enhance existing products and services and to expand the range of our offerings. Intellectual Property and Technology To establish and protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, patents, patent applications, trade secrets, know-how, license agreements, confidentiality provisions and procedures and other contractual provisions. We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, but the laws of some countries in which we operate, particularly in Asia, either do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States or are poorly enforced. As our digital business has grown, our games and services increasingly depend on the reliability, availability and security of our technological infrastructure. In addition, we engage in activities designed to limit the impact of abuse of our digital products and services, including monitoring our games for evidence of exploitation and re-balancing our game environments in the event that such abuse is discovered. Governmental Regulation We are a global company subject to various and complex laws and regulations domestically and internationally, including laws and regulations related to gaming, user privacy, data collection and retention, consumer protection, protection of minors, online safety, content, advertising, localization, information security, intellectual property, competition, sanctions, addressing climate change, taxation, and employment, among others. Many of these laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing, and the application to, and impact on, us is uncertain. Certain of our business models are subject to new laws or regulations or evolving interpretations and application of existing laws and regulations. The growth and development of electronic commerce, virtual items and virtual currency has prompted calls for new laws and regulations and resulted in the application of existing laws or regulations that have limited or restricted the sale of our products and services in certain territories. Seasonality 5 Table of Contents We have historically experienced the highest percentage of our net bookings in our third fiscal quarter due to seasonal holiday demand and the launch timing of our games. While we expect this trend to continue in fiscal year 2025, there is no assurance that it will. Human Capital Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and services. As of March 31, 2024, we employed approximately 13,700 people globally, with 66 percent located internationally. Our Board and its committees oversee our human capital management programs, practices and strategies and additional information on how they oversee these matters can be found in our annual Proxy Statement. We re committed to (1) embedding inclusion in our people practices to enable our people to thrive and do their best work, (2) a healthy and supportive culture that prioritizes engagement, listening and action, and (3) supporting the development of our people and the growth of our business. Our most recently published Company-wide gender and racial/ethnic representation, as well as our EEO-1 report (U.S. government reporting), are available on our website. Our programs and practices are designed to compensate our employees fairly based on the work that they perform. We consider our pay equity philosophy at each stage at which compensation decisions are made, including when hiring and promoting employees and through our annual review cycle. In addition, we annually partner with an independent outside firm to review employees pay and promote fairness in our compensation philosophy and practices. We aim to create a work environment and culture in which our people can do their best work. We aim to build a reciprocal relationship in which we engage, listen, respond, and work together to create a culture that supports our people and helps us deliver our business goals. All regular, full-time employees are asked to complete an Engagement Survey twice per year. 78 percent of employees participated in our most recent Engagement Survey, conducted in December 2023. We also conduct regular manager surveys. Results of all employee surveys are evaluated and inform opportunities for further improvement in our people practices. We invest in developing and retaining employees through access to professional growth resources, skills learning, and other job-specific and general training. We also build technical onboarding and job-specific programs to help our employees onboard to technical roles and grow in their specific domains. We maintain resources, programs and services to support employees' physical, mental, familial and financial health. We offer a wide range of benefits, such as comprehensive health insurance and time-off and leave programs. We also design ways to collaborate across work models, whether working virtually, on-site, or using a hybrid approach. We empower leadership to determine the most appropriate workplace strategy for their teams, intended to facilitate productivity and engagement and to deliver on business priorities. Investor Information Our website address is www.ea.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We announce material financial information and business updates through our SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts, the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com, our blog at https://www.ea.com/news and through our X profile @EA. Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website, 2023 Impact Report and/or social media accounts are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this Form 10-K. Company Information We were incorporated originally in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500. 6 Table of Contents Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 22, 2024: Name Age Position Andrew Wilson 49 Chief Executive Officer, Chair of the Board Stuart Canfield 45 EVP Chief Financial Officer Laura Miele 54 President of EA Entertainment, Technology Central Development Mala Singh 53 Chief People Officer Jacob Schatz 55 EVP of Global Affairs, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Eric Kelly 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Mr. Wilson has served as EA s Chief Executive Officer and as a director of EA since September 2013 and was appointed Chair of the Board of Directors in August 2021. Prior to his appointment as our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wilson held several positions within the Company since joining EA in May 2000, including Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS from August 2011 to September 2013. Mr. Wilson also serves as chairman of the board of the privately-held World Surf League and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Paley Center for Media. Mr. Wilson has served on the board of directors of Intel Corporation within the last five years. Mr. Canfield has served as EA s Chief Financial Officer since June 2023. Mr. Canfield joined EA in 2003 and has over 20 years of experience across a variety of senior leadership positions in global finance, investor relations and operations, including SVP of Enterprise Finance Investor Relations, SVP Finance (Strategic and Financial Planning) and SVP Finance (Corporate Global EA Studios). Mr. Canfield received his undergraduate degree from the University of London. Ms. Miele has served as EA s President of EA Entertainment, Technology Central Development since June 2023. Ms. Miele joined the Company in March 1996 and has held several positions at the Company, including Chief Operating Officer from October 2021 to June 2023, Chief Studios Officer from April 2018 to October 2021, Executive Vice President, Global Publishing from April 2016 to April 2018, and several senior roles in the Company's marketing organization. Ms. Singh has served as EA's Chief People Officer since October 2016. Ms. Singh was previously employed by EA from 2009 to 2013, service as Vice President, Human Resources, EA Labels from 2011 to 2013. Prior to rejoining EA, Ms. Singh served as the Chief People Officer of Minted, LLC from January 2014 to October 2016. Ms. Singh earned both her undergraduate and graduate degrees from Rutgers University - New Brunswick. Mr. Schatz has served as EA s Executive Vice President of Global Affairs and Chief Legal Officer since June 2023 and leads the teams responsible for Legal Affairs, Business Development, Corporate Development, and other disciplines. Mr. Schatz joined EA in 1999, holding several roles within EA's legal department and was appointed General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in 2014. Mr. Schatz earned his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center and received his undergraduate degree from Pomona College. Mr. Schatz is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts. Mr. Kelly has served as EA's Chief Accounting Officer since August 2021. Since joining EA in 2003, Mr. Kelly has held several positions within EA's finance organization, including Vice President and Worldwide Controller from January 2014 to August 2021 and finance leadership roles such as CFO of Asia and European Financial Controller. Mr. Kelly holds a B.S. in Accounting from Villanova University and is a licensed Certified Public Accountant. 7 Table of Contents Item 1A: Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. In the past, we have experienced certain of the events and circumstances described below, which adversely impacted our business and financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occur, our business or financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe could be material that may harm our business or financial performance. STRATEGIC RISKS Our business is intensely competitive. We may not deliver successful and engaging products and services, or consumers may prefer our competitors products or services over our own. Competition in our business is intense. Many new products and services are regularly introduced, but only a relatively small number of products and associated services drive significant engagement and account for a significant portion of total revenue. Our competitors range from established interactive entertainment companies to emerging start-ups. In addition, the gaming, technology/internet, and entertainment industries are converging, and we compete with large, diversified companies in those industries. We expect them to continue to pursue and strengthen these businesses. Their greater financial and other resources may provide larger budgets to recruit our key creative and technical talent, develop and market products and services that gain consumer success and shift player time and engagement away from our products and services, or otherwise disrupt our operations. We also expect new competitors to continue to emerge throughout the world. If our competitors develop more successful and engaging products or services, offer competitive products or services at lower price points, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality, well-received and engaging products and services, or if our marketing strategies are not innovative or fail to resonate with players, particularly during key selling periods, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. We strive to create innovative and high-quality products and services that allow us to grow the global online communities around our key franchises and reach more players. However, innovative and high-quality titles, even if highly-reviewed, may not meet our expectations or the expectations of our players. Many financially successful products and services within our industry are iterations of prior titles with large established consumer bases and significant brand recognition, which makes competing in certain categories challenging. In addition, products or services of our direct competitors or other entertainment companies may shift consumer spending or engagement from our products and services, which could cause our products and services to underperform. A significant portion of our revenue historically has been derived from products and services based on a few popular franchises, and the underperformance of a single major title has had, and could in the future have, a material adverse impact on our financial results. For example, we have historically derived a significant portion of our net revenue from sales related to our EA SPORTS FC franchise, annualized versions of which are consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace. Any events or circumstances that negatively impact our EA SPORTS FC franchise, including Ultimate Team, such as product or service quality, other products that take a portion of consumer spending and time, the delay or cancellation of a product or service launch, increased competition for key licenses, or real or perceived security or regulatory risks, could negatively impact our financial results to a disproportionate extent. We may not meet our product and live service development schedules. Our ability to meet product and live service development schedules is affected by a number of factors both within and outside our control, including feedback from our players, the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams, evolving work models, the complexity of our products and the platforms for which they are developed, the need to fine-tune our products prior to their release, and, in certain cases, approvals from third parties. We have experienced development delays for our products and services in the past which caused us to delay or cancel release dates. Any failure to meet anticipated production or release schedules likely would result in