Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 59 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 59 Item 9B. Other Information 59 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 Item 11. Executive Compensation 60 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 60 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 60 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 60 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 61 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 61 3 PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, management strategies or timing and other expectations regarding our sale of StubHub to viagogo). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. ITEM 1: BUSINESS Overview eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995 and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 2025 Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is (408) 376-7008. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, when we refer to we, our, us or eBay in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean eBay Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. When we refer to eBay Inc. we mean our Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds platforms. On November 24, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement for eBay to sell StubHub to viagogo, with closing of the transaction expected to occur in the first quarter of 2020. eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader, which includes our Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds platforms. Collectively, we connect millions of buyers and sellers around the world, empowering people and creating opportunity. Our technologies and services are designed to give buyers choice and a breadth of relevant inventory and to enable sellers worldwide to organize and offer their inventory for sale, virtually anytime and anywhere. Our Marketplace platforms include our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com, its localized counterparts, including off-platform businesses in Korea, Japan and Turkey and the eBay suite of mobile apps. We believe that these are among the world s largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. StubHub platforms include the online ticket platform located at www.stubhub.com, its localized counterparts and the StubHub mobile apps. These platforms connect fans with their favorite sporting events, shows and artists and enable them to buy and sell millions of tickets annually, whenever and wherever they want. Our Classifieds platforms include a collection of brands such as mobile.de, Kijiji, Gumtree, Marktplaats, eBay Kleinanzeigen and others. Offering online classifieds around the world, these platforms help people find what they are looking for in their local communities. Our platforms are accessible through a traditional online experience (e.g., desktop and laptop computers), mobile devices (e.g., smartphones and tablets) and our application programming interfaces or APIs (platform access for third party software developers). Our multi-screen approach offers downloadable, easy-to-use applications for iOS and Android mobile devices that allow access to ebay.com and some of our other websites and vertical shopping experiences. Our platform is increasingly based on open source technologies that provide industry-standard ways for software developers and merchants to access our APIs and develop software and solutions for commerce. In 2019, we launched new API capabilities to give third-party developers access to eBay programs like managed payments. Agreement to Sell StubHub On November 24, 2019, following a strategic review of our assets, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell StubHub to viagogo for a purchase price of $4.05 billion in cash. Please see the information in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the caption The closing of the proposed sale of StubHub is subject to various risks and uncertainties, may not be completed in accordance with expected plans or on the currently contemplated timeline, or at all, and the pending sale may be disruptive to StubHub. 4 Our Strategy Delivering the best choice, the most relevance and the most powerful selling platform Our strategy is to drive the best choice, the most relevance and the most powerful selling platform for our buyers and sellers. We focus on connecting buyers and sellers through simplified experiences to make it easier for users to list, buy and sell items, and we are working to serve our customers in an authentically eBay way. On our Marketplace platform, our strategy is to drive the best choice by attracting and retaining sellers and brands that bring differentiated inventory to eBay and provide our consumers with great selection and value. This includes new, everyday items as well as rare and unique goods, many of which are available with free shipping and delivery in three business days or less. Our vision is to provide buyers with value and selection through the spectrum of value of the inventory. We continue to invest in product and initiatives to evolve the customer experience, making it easier for buyers to find inventory on the platform. As a trusted ticket marketplace, StubHub brings the joy of live events to fans globally. In 2019, over 268 million visitors came to StubHub to buy or sell tickets to live sports, music, theater and other events. StubHub business partners include more than 100 leagues, teams, venues, events or other major third-party companies in the U.S. and internationally across major sports leagues such as the NFL, MLB, MLS, NBA, NHL, and the NCAA. StubHub is a leader in mobile innovation, with roughly 60% of its orders coming from mobile in 2019. A world leader in online classifieds, eBay Classifieds is designed to help people list their products and services, generally for free, find what they are looking for in their local communities and trade at a local level. eBay Classifieds Group s brands offer both horizontal and vertical experiences, such as motors, real estate and jobs. We offer a personalized classifieds experience and focus on expanding our value proposition by leveraging data and analytics to improve customer relevance and grow the classifieds opportunity on mobile. Business model and pricing On eBay and StubHub, our business model and pricing are designed so that our business is successful primarily when our sellers are successful. We make money primarily through fees collected on successfully closed sales. On our Classifieds platform, we monetize our business primarily through advertising. In 2019, managed payments adoption accelerated in the U.S. and the service launched in Germany. Since we began intermediating payments in 2018, we processed over $2.0 billion in payments for nearly 25,000 sellers through December 31, 2019. Our advertising business remains focused on growing our promoted listing fees (first-party advertising business) while reducing non-strategic third-party advertising in a manner that is conducive to growth in our core Marketplace; over 1 million sellers used the product, promoting over 320 million live listings in 2019. Our offerings for buyers and sellers We provide a number of features for our buyers and sellers that are designed to build trust, help users feel more comfortable buying and selling on our platforms and reward our top sellers for their loyalty. We believe that, through our sellers, eBay offers some of the best value and deals available for a number of consumer products. Buyers seek out eBay because they can find an enormous breadth of inventory and a spectrum of value from the brand new to the hard-to-find. On the Marketplace platform, we continue to explore new tools and features that are intended to create a better buying experience on eBay, including Visual Shopping via Computer Vision, Right Offer at the Right Time, and Buy Again. In order to remain competitive and create a vibrant seller experience, eBay continuously invests in tools and programs to grow the seller ecosystem because we only win when our sellers succeed. In 2019, we added analytics and merchandising tools to our Seller Hub that are designed so that sellers know what to sell, when to sell it and at what price. The 2019 additions of Multi-User Account Access, along with the Terapeak integration, enable sellers to better manage their business and add additional analytics insights into the platform. We also established new seller protections, including two new financial protections for top-rated sellers located in the U.S. who offer 30-day returns. First, eBay will issue a seller invoice credit to cover return label cost if a buyer makes a false item not as described 5 claim. Second, eBay now allows these sellers to issue partial refunds for all items that are returned damaged. eBay also has processes that allow sellers to report buyers who violate policies. eBay is committed to maintaining a safe and trusted marketplace. In order to further strengthen our buyers confidence and trust in our services, we offer eBay Money Back Guarantee, which allows buyers to get their money back if the item they ordered does not arrive, is faulty or damaged, or if it does not match the listing. eBay Money Back Guarantee covers most items purchased on the eBay platform in a number of countries, including the U.S., the U.K., Germany and Australia, through a qualifying payment method. Some purchases, including some vehicles, are not covered. We also offer eBay Authenticate, through which sellers can have their high-end handbags, luxury watches and jewelry authenticated. The program is available in the United States as well as in the U.K. and Germany. We also provide our customers with a Best Price Guarantee, which offers buyers in the United States 110 percent of the price difference if they find an item for less on a competitor s website within 48 hours of making a purchase. In Australia, Best Price Guarantee beats deals from approved retailers by 5%, and in U.K., offers price matching. For buyers, we want to create greater confidence in our ability to meet their delivery and buying expectations and to improve the reliability of our shipping times and tracking. The majority of our transactions on the eBay Marketplace in the U.S., the U.K., and Germany include free shipping, and we encourage sellers to offer free returns. Through eBay Guaranteed Delivery, we provide faster and more precise delivery dates on millions of eligible items. Our Impact and Responsibility eBay s purpose is to empower people and create economic opportunity for all. Every day, people build businesses on eBay, and we are driven to support them. Both in our community and through our technology, we work to create economic opportunity. Our impact efforts are divided into four programs that align with our purpose: eBay for Charity, eBay Foundation, Retail Revival, and Responsible Business. eBay for Charity empowers eBay buyers and sellers to support charities around the world. Since its inception, eBay for Charity has raised more than $1 billion for more than 83,000 charities. eBay s Foundation helps build economically vibrant and thriving communities through several key initiatives like Global Give, which is an annual employee-led grantmaking program that deploys the talents and passions of eBay employees. Through the program, employees come together to create teams, partner with local nonprofits, and develop projects that support small businesses and entrepreneurs in their communities. In 2019, the eBay Foundation awarded approximately $1 million through Global Give. Retail Revival, which launched in early 2018, also demonstrates eBay s commitment to economic development and entrepreneurialism. Retail Revival empowers local businesses to compete on a global scale and thrive in an online economy. In close partnership with local governments and stakeholders, eBay onboards cohorts of small businesses and supports their growth through months of in-depth training, individual coaching, and promotional support, all provided at no cost to the participants or partner cities. Since launch, eBay has welcomed new U.S. cities to the Retail Revival program, including: Lansing, Michigan; Greensboro, North Carolina; and Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and scaled the program internationally to Canada, the UK, Ireland, Italy, Israel, Russia, and Bulgaria. Finally, as a part of the company s Responsible Business efforts, eBay strives to operate in an environmentally and socially sustainable way - creating a safe, trusted, and diverse environment in which our employees, buyers, sellers, suppliers, and partners can thrive. In 2019, eBay made several partnership announcements, working to reach its goal of 100% renewable energy by 2025. This includes two local renewable energy programs with energy providers in Draper, Utah, and San Jose, California. These two locations join Dreilinden, Germany; Dublin, Ireland; and Portland, Oregon in 100% renewable energy sourcing. 6 Financial Information We measure our footprint in our addressable market according to Gross Merchandise Volume ( GMV ). GMV consists of the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on our Marketplace or StubHub platforms during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually completed the transaction. In 2019 , we generated over $90 billion in GMV, of which approximately 60 percent was generated outside the U.S. Despite GMV s divergence from revenue during 2019, we still believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of closed transactions that flow through our platforms in a given period, notwithstanding the inclusion in GMV of closed transactions that are not ultimately consummated. At the end of 2019, our Marketplace and StubHub platforms had more than 180 million active buyers and over one billion live listings globally. The term active buyer means, as of any date, all buyer accounts that successfully closed a transaction on our Marketplace or StubHub platforms within the previous 12-month period. Buyers may register more than once and, as a result, may have more than one account. We generate revenue primarily from the transactions we successfully enable and through marketing services, including classifieds and our growth initiatives of payments and advertising. The majority of our revenue comes from a take rate on the GMV of transactions closed on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms. We define take rate as net transaction revenues divided by GMV. The size and scale of our platforms are designed to enable our buyers and sellers to leverage our economies of scale and capital investments, such as in sales and marketing, mobile, customer acquisition, technology innovation and customer service. Notable Business Transactions in 2019 We regularly review and manage our investments to ensure that they support eBay s strategic direction and complement our disciplined approach to value creation, profitability and capital allocation. In the first quarter of 2019, we completed the acquisition of Motors.co.uk, a U.K.-based classifieds site, for $93 million. The Motors.co.uk team joined Gumtree UK, an eBay Classifieds business. In the second quarter of 2019, we invested $160 million in Paytm Mall, an eCommerce marketplace in India. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell StubHub; see Agreement to Sell StubHub section for more details. Competition We encounter vigorous competition in our business from numerous sources. Our users can list, sell, buy, and pay for similar items through a variety of competing online, mobile and offline channels. These include, but are not limited to, retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies, classifieds, directories, search engines, commerce participants (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and business-to-business), shopping channels and networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face additional competition from other online, mobile and offline channels for those new offerings. We compete on the basis of price, product selection and services, and global scale. For more information regarding risks of competition, see the information in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the captions Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business and We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws that could adversely impact our business. To compete effectively, we will need to continue to expend significant resources in technology and marketing. These efforts require substantial expenditures, which could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results and cash flows and reduce the market price of our common stock and outstanding debt securities. Despite our efforts to preserve and expand the size, diversity and transaction activity of our buyers and sellers and to enhance the user experience, we may not be able to effectively manage our operating expenses, to increase or maintain our revenue or to avoid a decline in our consolidated net income or a net loss. Government Regulation Government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations that affect the ecommerce industry in many countries where we operate. With the continued state adoption of Internet 7 sales tax laws in 2019, more buyers across the U.S. are encountering sales tax for the first time on the eBay platform. To date, more than 30 states have implemented Internet sales tax and digital service tax legislation. Tax collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex sales and use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements could create additional burdens for buyers and sellers on our websites and mobile platforms. For more information regarding regulatory risks, see the information in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the caption Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight and Our business and its users are subject to Internet sales tax and sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. Seasonality We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to mirror general consumer buying patterns. Please see the additional information in Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Seasonality. Technology eBay Inc. s platforms use a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive user interfaces, buyer, seller and developer tools and transaction processing, database and network applications that help enable our users to reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites. Our technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. For information regarding technology-related risks, see the information in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the captions Systems failures or cyberattacks and resulting interruptions in the availability of or degradation in the performance of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business and Regulation in the areas of privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. In support of our ongoing commitment to innovation and a better customer experience, we have been on a multi-year evolution to modernize our marketplace. Through technologies like artificial intelligence, which is woven into all aspects of the eBay marketplace, we are anticipating the needs of buyers, sellers and developers empowering entrepreneurs looking to grow their business, and making the platform more accessible to everyone. We aim to create highly personalized and inspiring shopping experiences powered by advanced technologies. Intellectual Property We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay name), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We routinely enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is typically expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful. We have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. If we are unable to register or protect our trademarks or domain names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our trademarks or domain names are not registered or protected. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. 8 From time to time, third parties have claimed - and others will likely claim in the future - that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are typically involved in a number of such legal proceedings at any time. Please see the information in Item 3: Legal Proceedings and in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the captions The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm our business, and We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and face ongoing risk from patent litigation and allegations by third parties that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 13,300 people globally. Approximately 6,600 of our employees were located in the U.S. Available Information Our Internet address is www.ebay.com . Our investor relations website is located at investors.ebayinc.com . We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading Financial Information - SEC Filings our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs on our investor relations website. Company sustainability information for investors is available on our investor relations website under the heading ESG Investors. Corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines for our Board of Directors ( Board ), Board committee charters and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The contents of our websites and webcasts and information that can be accessed through our websites and webcasts are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with (or furnish to) the SEC, and any references to our websites and webcasts are intended to be inactive textual references only. 9 Item 1A: RISK FACTORS You should carefully review the following discussion of the risks that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information appearing in this report, for important information regarding risks that affect us. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks. These risks are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks that we are not aware of or do not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. Risk Factors That May Affect our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operating and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this Risk Factors section. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings (loss) accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our consolidated financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected percentages. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The trading price of our common stock and debt securities could decline, perhaps substantially, as a result of the factors described in this paragraph and the other risks set forth in this Risk Factors section. Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business. The businesses and markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to consumers and merchants. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. We compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both buyers and sellers to use our platforms. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through us have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to r