Item 1. Business . 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors . 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments . 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity. 21 Item 2. Properties . 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings . 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . 24 Item 6. [Reserved] . 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk . 47 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . 93 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures . 93 Item 9B. Other Information . 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 93 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . 94 Item 11. Executive Compensation . 94 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters . 94 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . 95 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services . 95 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules . 96 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 102 2 Table of Contents PART I Except where the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to (i) Ecolab, Company, we and our are to Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively; (ii) Nalco are to Nalco Company LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; (iii) Nalco transaction and Nalco merger are to the merger of Ecolab and Nalco Holding Company completed in December 2011; (iv) Purolite are to Purolite LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and its subsidiaries, collectively; and (v) Purolite transaction are to the Company s acquisition of the shares of the subsidiaries and certain other affiliated entities of Purolite Corporation and substantially all of the assets of Purolite Corporation used or held for use in connection with its filtration and purification resins business in December 2021. Item 1. Business . General Development of Business. Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924. Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31. International subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements on the basis of their U.S. GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) November 30 fiscal year ends to facilitate the timely inclusion of such entities in our consolidated financial reporting. On December 1, 2021, we acquired Purolite for total consideration of $3.7 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. Purolite is a leading and fast-growing global provider of high-end ion exchange resins for the separation and purification of solutions that is highly complementary to our current offering and critical to safe, high quality drug production and biopharma product purification in the life sciences industries. It also provides purification and separation solutions for critical industrial markets like microelectronics, nuclear power and food and beverage. Headquartered in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, Purolite operates in more than 30 countries. Purolite is reported within our Life Sciences operating segment. Narrative Description of Business. General A trusted partner for millions of customers, we are a global sustainability leader offering water, hygiene and infection prevention solutions and services that protect people and the resources vital to life. Building on a century of innovation, we have annual sales of $15 billion, employ more than 48,000 associates and sell to customers in more than 170 countries around the world. We deliver comprehensive science-based solutions, data-driven insights and world-class service to advance food safety, maintain clean and safe environments, and optimize water and energy use. Our innovative solutions improve operational efficiencies and sustainability for customers in the food, healthcare, life sciences, hospitality and industrial markets. We pursue a Circle the Customer Circle the Globe strategy by providing an array of innovative programs, products and services designed to meet the specific operational and sustainability needs of our customers throughout the world. Through this strategy and our varied product and service mix, one customer may utilize the offerings of several of our operating segments. Important in our business proposition for customers is our ability to produce improved results while reducing their water and energy use. With that in mind, we focus on continually innovating to optimize both our own operations and the solutions we provide to customers, aligning with our corporate strategy to address some of the world s most pressing and complex sustainability challenges such as water scarcity and climate change. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our employees, customers, investors and the communities in which we and our customers operate. Sustainability is core to our business strategy. We deliver sustainable solutions that help companies around the world achieve their business goals while reducing environmental impacts. We partner with customers around the world to reduce water and energy use as well as greenhouse gas emissions through our high-efficiency solutions. By partnering with our customers to help them do more with less through the use of our innovative and differentiated solutions, we aim to help our customers conserve more than 300 billion gallons of water annually by 2030. In 2022, we helped our customers conserve more than 219 billion gallons of water and avoid more than 3.6 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. The following description of our business is based upon our reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, which are located in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Operating segments that share similar economic characteristics and future prospects, including the nature of the products and production processes, end-use markets, channels of distribution and regulatory environment, have been aggregated into three reportable segments: Global Industrial, Global Institutional Specialty and Global Healthcare Life Sciences. Operating segments that were not aggregated and do not exceed the quantitative criteria to be separately reported have been combined into Other. We provide similar information for Other as compared to our three reportable segments as we consider the information regarding its underlying operating segments useful in understanding our consolidated results. 3 Table of Contents Global Industrial This reportable segment consists of the Water, Food Beverage and Paper operating segments, which provide water treatment and process applications, and cleaning and sanitizing solutions, primarily to large industrial customers within the manufacturing, food and beverage processing, transportation, chemical, primary metals and mining, power generation, global refining, petrochemical, pulp and paper industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the three operating segments which comprise our Global Industrial reportable segment follow below. Water Water serves customers across industrial and institutional markets. Within Water, our light industry markets include food and beverage, manufacturing and transportation, institutional clients including commercial buildings, hospitals, universities and hotels, and global high technology serving customers including data centers and microelectronics. Heavy industries served include power, chemicals and primary metals, mining and petroleum refining and fuels industry. Water provides water treatment products and technology programs for cooling water, wastewater, boiler water and process water applications. In addition to these solutions, we offer specialty programs to the petroleum and fuels industry refining process applications, fuels and feedstocks additives. Our cooling water treatment programs are designed to control challenges associated with cooling water systems corrosion, scale and microbial fouling and contamination in open recirculating, once-through and closed systems. Our wastewater products and programs focus on improving overall plant economics, addressing compliance issues, optimizing equipment efficiency and improving operator capabilities and effectiveness. We provide integrated chemical and digitally-based solutions, process improvements and mechanical component modifications to optimize boiler performance and control corrosion and scale build-up. Our programs assist in more effectively managing water use for plant processes by optimizing the performance of treatment chemicals and equipment in order to minimize costs and maximize returns on investment. Our offerings include specialty products such as scale and corrosion inhibitors, antifoulants, pre-treatment solutions, membrane treatments, coagulants and flocculants, anti-foamers, hydrogen sulfide removal, cold flow improvers, lubricity inhibitors, crude desalting and reactive monomer inhibitors, as well as our 3D TRASAR TM technologies, which combine chemistry, remote services and monitoring and control. We provide products and programs for water treatment and process applications aimed at combining environmental benefits with economic gains for our customers. Typically, water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency are among our primary sources of value creation for our customers, with product quality and production enhancement improvements also providing key differentiating features for many of our offerings. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of products and programs for chemical applications within the industrial water treatment and petroleum refining industries. Food Beverage Food Beverage provides cleaning and sanitation products and programs to facilitate the processing of products for human consumption. Food Beverage provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems, digitally-based dispensers, monitors and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants; dairy, swine and poultry farms; breweries and soft-drink bottling plants as well as meat, poultry and other food processors. Food Beverage is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during processing in order to reduce microbial contamination. Food Beverage also designs, engineers and installs CIP ( clean-in-place ) process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base. Water savings, energy savings, and operating efficiency are among our sources of value creation for our customers. Products for use in processing facilities are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees, while products for use on farms are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy, swine and poultry farm, beverage/brewery, food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processing industries. Paper Paper provides water and process applications for the pulp and paper industries, offering a comprehensive portfolio of programs that are used in all principal steps of the papermaking process and across all grades of paper, including graphic grades, board and packaging, and tissue and towel. While Paper provides its customers similar types of products and programs for water treatment and wastewater treatment as those offered by Water, Paper also offers two specialty programs that differentiate its offerings from Water pulp applications and paper applications. Our pulp applications maximize process efficiency and increase pulp cleanliness and brightness in bleaching operations, as well as predict and monitor scaling potential utilizing on-line monitoring to design effective treatment programs and avoid costly failures. Our paper process applications focus on improving our customers operational efficiency, in part through water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency. Advanced digital sensing, monitoring and automation combine with innovative chemistries and detailed process knowledge to provide a broad range of customer solutions. Specialty products include flocculants, coagulants, dewatering aids and digester yield additives. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of water treatment products and process aids to the pulp and papermaking industry. 4 Table of Contents Global Institutional Specialty This reportable segment consists of the Institutional and Specialty operating segments, which provide specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the foodservice, hospitality, lodging, government, education and retail industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the two operating segments which comprise our Global Institutional Specialty reportable segment follow below. Institutional Institutional sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment ( warewashing ), plus specialized cleaners for various applications throughout food service operations, on-premise laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and general housekeeping functions. We also sell food safety products and equipment, water filters, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging, educational and healthcare industries. Institutional also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality, healthcare and commercial facilities. Institutional develops various digital monitoring and chemical dispensing systems which are used by our customers to efficiently and safely dispense our cleaners and sanitizers, and through these products, systems and our on-site sales and service expertise, develop better results for our customers including water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency. In addition, Institutional markets a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance. Through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, Institutional also provides customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations. With the Lobster Ink business, Institutional provides our customers with end-to-end digital training solutions designed to drive corrective actions and optimal frontline execution. Institutional sells its products and programs primarily through its direct field sales and corporate account sales personnel. Corporate account sales personnel establish relationships and negotiate contracts with larger multi-unit or chain customers. We also utilize independent, third-party foodservice, broad-line and janitorial distributors to provide logistics to end customers that prefer to work through these distributors. Many of these distributors also participate in marketing our product and service offerings to the end customers. Through our field sales personnel, we generally provide the same customer support to end-use customers supplied by these distributors as we do to direct customers. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of warewashing and laundry products and programs to the food service, hospitality and lodging markets. Specialty Specialty supplies cleaning and sanitizing products and related items primarily to regional, national and international quick service restaurant ( QSR ) chains and food retailers (i.e., supermarkets and grocery stores). Its products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools and equipment which are primarily sold under the Ecolab and Kay brand names. QSR s program also includes a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance. Specialty s cleaning and sanitation programs are customized to meet the needs of the market segments it serves and are designed to provide highly effective cleaning performance, promote food safety, reduce labor, water and energy costs and enhance user and guest safety. A number of dispensing options are available for products in the core product range. Specialty supports its product sales with training programs and technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers. Both Specialty s QSR business and its food retail business utilize their corporate account sales force which manages relationships with customers at the corporate and regional office levels (and, in the QSR market segment, at the franchisee level) and their field sales force which provides program support at the individual restaurant or store level. QSR customers are primarily supplied through third party distributors while most food retail customers utilize their own distribution networks. While Specialty s customer base has broadened significantly over the years, Specialty s business remains largely dependent upon a limited number of major QSR chains and franchisees and large food retail customers. Food Safety Solutions supplies a digital platform that combines software, hardware and multiple services to automate kitchen procedures for efficiency and compliance. It also offers a unique variety of products, tools and equipment for food preparation, food rotation labeling, temperature management, cleaning and employee safety across all food service customers. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global QSR market and a leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global food retail market. 5 Table of Contents Global Healthcare Life Sciences This reportable segment consists of the Healthcare and Life Sciences operating segments, which provide specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the healthcare, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the two operating segments which comprise our Global Healthcare Life Sciences reportable segment follow below. Healthcare Healthcare provides infection prevention and surgical solutions to acute care hospitals, surgery centers and medical device Original Equipment Manufacturers ( OEM ). Healthcare s proprietary infection prevention and surgical solutions (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfection, digital monitoring systems, instrument cleaning, patient drapes, equipment drapes and surgical fluid warming and cooling systems) are sold primarily under the "Ecolab," "Microtek," and Anios brand names to various departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room). Healthcare sells its products and programs principally through its field sales personnel and corporate account personnel but also sells through healthcare distributors. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of infection prevention and surgical solutions in the United States and Europe. Life Sciences Life Sciences provides end-to-end cleaning and contamination control solutions to pharmaceutical and personal care manufacturers. These products are primarily sold under the Ecolab brand name, and include detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, disinfectants, surface wipes, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products. With the acquisition of Purolite, the portfolio now includes premium fluid treatment and purification solutions with a broad range of unique products sold under the Purolite brand name, particularly focusing on biopharma purification solutions, active pharmaceutical ingredients ( API s ) and high value industrial applications. The Life Sciences portfolio also includes decontamination systems and services utilizing hydrogen peroxide vapor, which are sold under the Bioquell brand name. The pharmaceutical clean room environment is the primary area that Ecolab and Bioquell products are utilized. Purolite products are primarily used in the purification of biologic therapeutics, API s and high value industrial applications. Products and programs are sold primarily through our field sales and corporate account personnel, and to a lesser extent through distributors. Life Sciences is comprised of customers and accounts related to manufacturing in the following industries: pharmaceutical, animal health and medicine, blood purification and dialysis, biologic products, cosmetics and medical devices. Our tailored, comprehensive solutions and technical know-how focus on ensuring product quality, safety and compliance standards are met while improving operational efficiency in customers cleaning, sanitation and disinfection processes. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of process purification solutions in Europe and North America and of contamination control solutions in Europe, with a growing presence in North America and other regions. Other Other consists of the Pest Elimination, Textile Care and Colloidal Technologies Group operating segments. These operating segments do not meet the quantitative criteria to be separately reported. We disclose these operating segments within Other as we consider the information useful in understanding our consolidated results. Pest Elimination Pest Elimination provides services designed to detect, prevent, and eliminate pests such as rodents and insects in full-service and quick-service restaurants, food and beverage processors, hotels, grocery operations and other commercial segments including education, life sciences and healthcare. In addition to the United States, which constitutes our largest operation, we operate in various countries in Asia Pacific, Greater China, Western Europe, Latin America, and Africa. We believe Pest Elimination is a leading service provider of effective, high-quality pest elimination programs that deliver high quality outcomes to commercial segments in the geographies it serves. Textile Care Textile Care provides products and services that manage the entire wash process through custom designed programs, premium products, dispensing equipment, water and energy management and reduction, and real time data management for large scale, complex commercial laundry operations including uniform rental, hospitality, linen rental and healthcare laundries. Textile Care s programs are designed to meet our customers needs for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing our customers overall operating costs. Products and programs are marketed primarily through our field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through distributors. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers in the laundry markets in which we compete. 6 Table of Contents Colloidal Technologies Group The Colloidal Technologies Group ( CTG ) produces and sells colloidal silica, which is comprised of nano-sized particles of silica in water. These products and associated programs are used primarily for binding and polishing applications. CTG serves customers across various industries, including semiconductor manufacturing, catalyst manufacturing, chemicals and aerospace component manufacturing. CTG incorporates strong collaboration with customers to develop customized solutions that meet the technical demands of their operations. Our silica-based applications are widely used for polishing of silicon wafers, semiconductor substrates and the precision surface finishing of optics, watch crystals and other glass components. We offer a variety of silica-based particles that can be used as binders in heterogeneous catalyst systems and as silica nutrients for manufacturing specialty zeolites. Our silica products are used worldwide as a binder for precision investment casting slurries, which ultimately facilitate the manufacture of near net-shape metal parts such as turbine blades and golf club heads. Our products are sold primarily by our corporate account employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of colloidal silica. Additional Information International Operations We directly operate in approximately 100 countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in some cases, through a joint venture with a local partner. In certain countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues. In general, our businesses conducted outside the United States are similar to those conducted in the United States. Our business operations outside the United States are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, international business laws and regulations, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions. The profitability of our international operations is generally lower than the profitability of our businesses in the United States, due to (i) the additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions with varying laws and regulations, (ii) higher costs of importing certain raw materials and finished goods in some regions, (iii) the smaller scale of international operations where certain operating locations are smaller in size, and (iv) the additional reliance on distributors and agents in certain countries which can negatively impact our margins. Proportionately larger investments in sales and technical support are also necessary in certain geographies in order to facilitate the growth of our international operations. Competition In general, the markets in which the businesses in our Global Industrial reportable segment compete are led by a few large companies, with the rest of the market served by smaller entities focusing on more limited geographic regions or a smaller subset of products and services. Our businesses in this segment compete on the basis of their demonstrated value, technical expertise, innovation, digital technology, chemical formulations, global customer support, detection equipment, monitoring capabilities, and dosing and metering equipment. Through the combination of our digitally enabled end-to-end water management and hygiene solutions, data-driven insights and personalized service, our Global Industrial businesses deliver outcomes that help our customers optimize water and energy use, improve productivity, advance food safety, and achieve sustainability and net zero goals, while optimizing total cost of operations. The businesses in our Global Institutional Specialty reportable segment and Other have two significant classes of competitors. First, we compete with a small number of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or international scale. Second, we have numerous smaller regional or local competitors which focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-use customer segments. We believe we compete principally by providing superior value, premium customer support, training, service, and innovative and differentiated products to help our customers protect their brand reputation and improve their operational efficiency. Within the Global Healthcare Life Sciences reportable segment, the Healthcare business competes geographically with companies primarily focused on a smaller range of product categories, with few globally scaled competitors. The Life Sciences business competes in the European market versus several mid-size and regional competitors and competes against two large and other mid-size or regional competitors in North America. Outside of North America and Europe competitors are much more fragmented and do not offer the same level of service or coverage as Ecolab. Our businesses in this segment compete by enabling our customers success through improved hygiene, digitally enabled programs in operating room and patient room space as well as a tailored approach to delivering key inputs that directly impact our customers patients globally. Sales Our products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by our Company-trained direct field sales personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper and most efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of cleaning and sanitation, water treatment and process chemistry needs. Independent, third-party distributors and, to a lesser extent, sales agents, are utilized in several markets, as described in the segment descriptions found above. 7 Table of Contents Customers and Classes of Products We believe our business is not materially dependent upon a single customer. Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constituted 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues in 2023, 2022 or 2021, we do have customers and independent third-party distributors, the loss of whic