Item 1. Business . 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors . 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments . 21 Item 2. Properties . 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings . 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 23 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . 23 Item 6. Selected Financial Data . 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk . 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . 99 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures . 99 Item 9B. Other Information . 99 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . 100 Item 11. Executive Compensation . 100 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters . 101 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . 101 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services . 101 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules . 102 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 108 2 Table of Contents PART I Except where the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to (i) Ecolab, Company, we and our are to Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively; (ii) Nalco are to Nalco Company LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; (iii) Nalco transaction are to the merger of Ecolab and Nalco Holding Company completed in December 2011; and (iv) Champion transaction are to our acquisition of privately held Champion Technologies and its related company Corsicana Technologies in April 2013. Item 1. Business . General Development of Business. Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924. Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31. International subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements on the basis of their U.S. GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) November 30 fiscal year-ends to facilitate the timely inclusion of such entities in our consolidated financial reporting. On December 18, 2019, we entered into definitive agreements with ChampionX Holding Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Ecolab (ChampionX), and Apergy Corporation (Apergy) pursuant to which we will separate the Upstream Energy business of our Global Energy segment and combine it with Apergy in a tax-efficient reverse Morris Trust transaction. Subject to the terms and conditions of those agreements, we will transfer the Upstream Energy business of our Global Energy segment to ChampionX, after which, we will distribute by means of a split-off all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of ChampionX held by Ecolab, and immediately after the distribution of ChampionX common stock, a wholly owned subsidiary of Apergy will merge with and into ChampionX, with ChampionX surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Apergy and the shares of ChampionX common stock being converted into shares of Apergy common stock. Upon completion of the merger, ChampionX s stockholders will receive approximately 62% of the outstanding common stock of Apergy on a fully diluted basis. Completion of the transactions is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including approval by Apergy s stockholders, approval by certain foreign regulatory authorities and receipt of opinions with respect to the tax-free nature of the transactions. We continued to invest in and build our business through various acquisitions that complement our strategic vision. See Part II, Item 8, Note 4 of this Form 10-K for additional information about the acquisitions and divestitures of the Company. Narrative Description of Business. General With 2019 sales of $14.9 billion, we believe we are the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that protect people and vital resources. We deliver comprehensive programs, products and services to promote safe food, maintain clean environments, optimize water and energy use, and develop and improve operating efficiencies for customers in the food, healthcare, energy, hospitality and industrial markets in more than 170 countries around the world. Our cleaning and sanitizing programs and products, and pest elimination services, support customers in the foodservice, food and beverage processing, hospitality, healthcare, government and education, retail, textile care and commercial facilities management sectors. Our products and technologies are also used in water treatment, pollution control, energy conservation, oil production and refining, primary metals manufacturing, papermaking, mining and other industrial processes. We pursue a Circle the Customer Circle the Globe strategy by providing an array of innovative programs, products and services designed to meet the specific operational and sustainability needs of our customers throughout the world. Through this strategy and our varied product and service mix, one customer may utilize the offerings of several of our operating segments. Important in our business proposition for customers is our ability to produce improved results while reducing their water and energy use. With that in mind, we focus on continually innovating to optimize both our own operations and the solutions we provide to customers, aligning with our corporate strategy to address some of the world s most pressing and complex sustainability challenges such as water scarcity and climate change. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our employees, customers, investors and the communities in which we and our customers operate. Sustainability is core to our business strategy. We deliver sustainable solutions that help companies around the world achieve their business goals while reducing environmental impacts. We partner with customers at approximately three million customer locations around the world to reduce water, energy and greenhouse gas emissions through our high-efficiency solutions in cleaning and sanitation, water, paper and energy services. By partnering with our customers to help them do more with less through the use of our innovative and differentiated solutions, we aim to help our customers conserve more than 300 billion gallons of water annually by 2030. Last year, we helped our customers conserve more than 190 billion gallons of water and avoid more than 1.2 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions. The following description of our business is based upon our reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019, which are located in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Operating segments that share similar economic characteristics and future prospects, nature of the products and production processes, end-use markets, channels of distribution and regulatory environment have been aggregated into three reportable segments: Global Industrial, Global Institutional and Global Energy. Operating segments that were not aggregated and do not exceed the quantitative criteria to be separately reported have been combined into Other. We provide similar information for Other as compared to our three reportable segments as we consider the information regarding its underlying operating segments as useful in understanding our consolidated results. 3 Table of Contents Global Industrial This reportable segment consists of the Water, Food Beverage, Paper, Life Sciences and Textile Care operating segments, which provide water treatment and process applications, and cleaning and sanitizing solutions, primarily to large industrial customers within the manufacturing, food and beverage processing, transportation, chemical, primary metals and mining, power generation, pulp and paper, pharmaceutical and commercial laundry industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the five operating segments which comprise our Global Industrial reportable segment follow below. Water Water serves customers across industrial and institutional markets. Within Water, our light industry markets include food and beverage, manufacturing and transportation, and institutional clients including commercial buildings, hospitals, universities and hotels. Heavy industries served include power, chemicals and primary metals and mining. Water provides water treatment products and water technologies programs for cooling water, waste water, boiler water and process water applications. Our cooling water treatment programs are designed to control challenges associated with cooling water systems corrosion, scale and microbial fouling and contamination in open recirculating, once-through and closed systems. Our wastewater products and programs focus on improving overall plant economics, addressing compliance issues, optimizing equipment efficiency and improving operator capabilities and effectiveness. We provide integrated chemical solutions, process improvements and mechanical component modifications to optimize boiler performance and control corrosion and scale build-up. Our programs assist in the use of water for plant processes by optimizing the performance of treatment chemicals and equipment in order to minimize costs and maximize returns on investment. Our offerings include specialty products such as scale and corrosion inhibitors, antifoulants, pre-treatment solutions, membrane treatments, coagulants and flocculants, and anti-foamers, as well as our 3D TRASAR TM technology, which combines chemistry, remote services and monitoring and control. We provide products and programs for water treatment and process applications aimed at combining environmental benefits with economic gains for our customers. Typically, water savings, energy savings, and operating efficiency are among our primary sources of value creation for our customers, with product quality and production enhancement improvements also providing key differentiating features for many of our offerings. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of products and programs for chemical applications within the industrial water treatment industry. Food Beverage Food Beverage addresses cleaning and sanitation to facilitate the processing of products for human consumption. Food Beverage provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors. Food Beverage is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during processing in order to reduce microbial contamination. Food Beverage also designs, engineers and installs CIP ( clean-in-place ) process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base. Water savings, energy savings, and operating efficiency are among our sources of value creation for our customers. Products for use in processing facilities are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees, while products for use on farms are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processor industries. Paper Paper provides water and process applications for the pulp and paper industries, offering a comprehensive portfolio of programs that are used in all principal steps of the papermaking process and across all grades of paper, including graphic grades, board and packaging, and tissue and towel. Paper provides its customers similar types of products and programs for water treatment and wastewater treatment as those offered by Water. Also, Paper offers two specialty programs that differentiate its offerings from Water pulp applications and paper applications. Our pulp applications maximize process efficiency and increase pulp cleanliness and brightness in bleaching operations, as well as predict and monitor scaling potential utilizing on-line monitoring to design effective treatment programs and avoid costly failures. Our paper process applications focus on improving our customers operational efficiency, in part through water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency. Advanced sensing, monitoring and automation combine with innovative chemistries and detailed process knowledge to provide a broad range of customer solutions. Specialty products include flocculants, coagulants, dewatering aids, and digester yield additives. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of water treatment products and process aids to the pulp and papermaking industry. 4 Table of Contents Life Sciences Life Sciences provides end-to-end contamination control, cleaning and sanitizing solutions to personal care and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Life Sciences provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, disinfectants, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products. Additionally, we sell sterile alcohols, sterile biocides, residue removal and dilution solutions, surface wipes, dispensing equipment and aerosol sprays, which are primarily for application within clean room environments. The portfolio also includes decontamination systems and services utilizing hydrogen peroxide vapor. Products and programs are sold primarily through our field sales personnel and corporate account personnel, and to a lesser extent through distributors. Life Sciences is comprised of customers and accounts related to manufacturing in the following industries: pharmaceutical, animal health and medicine, biologic products, cosmetics and medical devices. Our tailored, comprehensive solutions and technical know-how focus on ensuring product quality, safety and compliance standards are met while improving operational efficiency in customers cleaning, sanitation and disinfection processes. Textile Care Textile Care provides products and services that manage the entire wash process through custom designed programs, premium products, dispensing equipment, water and energy management and reduction, and real time data management for large scale, complex commercial laundry operations including uniform rental, hospitality, linen rental and healthcare laundries. Textile Care s programs are designed to meet our customers needs for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing our customers overall operating costs. Products and programs are marketed primarily through our field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through distributors. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers in the laundry markets in which we compete. Global Institutional This reportable segment consists of the Institutional, Specialty and Healthcare operating segments, which provide specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the foodservice, hospitality, lodging, healthcare, government, education and retail industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the three operating segments which comprise our Global Institutional reportable segment follow below. Institutional Institutional sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment ( warewashing ), plus specialized cleaners for various applications throughout food service operations, for on-premise laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and for general housekeeping functions. We also sell food safety products and equipment, water filters, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging, educational and healthcare industries. Institutional also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality, healthcare and commercial facilities. Institutional develops various chemical dispensing systems which are used by our customers to efficiently and safely dispense our cleaners and sanitizers, and through these products, systems and our on-site sales and service expertise, develop better results for our customers while also developing water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency. In addition, Institutional markets a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance. Through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, Institutional also provides customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations. Institutional sells its products and programs primarily through its direct field sales and corporate account sales personnel. Corporate account sales personnel establish relationships and negotiate contracts with larger multi-unit or chain customers. We also utilize independent, third-party foodservice, broad-line and janitorial distributors to provide logistics to end customers that prefer to work through these distributors. Many of these distributors also participate in marketing our product and service offerings to the end customers. Through our field sales personnel, we generally provide the same customer support to end-use customers supplied by these distributors as we do to direct customers. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of warewashing and laundry products and programs to the food service, hospitality and lodging markets. 5 Table of Contents Specialty Specialty supplies cleaning and sanitizing chemical products and related items primarily to regional, national and international quick service restaurant ( QSR ) chains and food retailers (i.e., supermarkets and grocery stores). Its products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools and equipment which are primarily sold under the Ecolab and Kay brand names. Specialty s cleaning and sanitation programs are customized to meet the needs of the market segments it serves and are designed to provide highly effective cleaning performance, promote food safety, reduce labor, water and energy costs and enhance user and guest safety. A number of dispensing options are available for products in the core product range. Specialty supports its product sales with training programs and technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers. Both Specialty s QSR business and its food retail business utilize their corporate account sales force which manages relationships with customers at the corporate and regional office levels (and, in the QSR market segment, at the franchisee level) and their field sales force which provides program support at the individual restaurant or store level. QSR customers are primarily supplied through third party distributors while most food retail customers utilize their own distribution networks. While Specialty s customer base has broadened over the years, Specialty s business remains largely dependent upon a limited number of major QSR chains and franchisees and large food retail customers. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global QSR market and a leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global food retail market. Healthcare Healthcare provides infection prevention and surgical solutions to acute care hospitals, surgery centers and medical device Original Equipment Manufacturers ( OEM ). Healthcare s proprietary infection prevention and surgical solutions (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfection, instrument cleaning, patient drapes, equipment drapes and surgical fluid warming and cooling systems) are sold primarily under the Ecolab, Microtek, and Anios brand names to various departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room). Healthcare sells its products and programs primarily through its field sales personnel and corporate account personnel but also sells through healthcare distributors. We believe we are a leading supplier of infection prevention and surgical solutions in the United States and Europe. Global Energy This reportable segment consists of the Energy operating segment, which serves the process chemicals and water treatment needs of the global petroleum and petrochemical industries in both upstream and downstream applications. Energy provides on-site, technology-driven solutions to the global drilling and completion, oil and gas production and refining and petrochemical industries. Our product portfolio includes: additives for drilling and well stimulation, corrosion inhibitors, oil and water separation, scale control, paraffin and asphaltene control, biocides, hydrate control, hydrogen sulfide removal, oil dispersants, foamers and anti-foamers, flow improvers, anti-foulants, crude desalting, monomer inhibitors, anti-oxidants, fuel and lubricant additives, and traditional water treatment. The Energy operating segment operates under an upstream group comprised of the WellChem and Oil Field Chemicals businesses (which is being renamed ChampionX) and a downstream refinery and petrochemical processing group. ChampionX provides solutions to the oil and gas production sector, including crude oil and natural gas production, pipeline gathering/transmission systems, gas processing, heavy oil and bitumen upgrading, water management and enhanced oil recovery. ChampionX also supplies chemicals for the cementing, drilling, fracturing and acidizing phases of well drilling and stimulation. Our priority is to safely manage the critical challenges facing today s oil and gas producers throughout the life cycle of their assets, with such an approach helping our customers minimize risk, achieve their production targets and maximize profitability. Our downstream group provides products and programs for process and water treatment applications specific to the petroleum refining and fuels industry, enabling our customers to profitably refine and upgrade hydrocarbons. Our heavy oil upgrading programs minimize operational costs and mitigate fouling, corrosion, foaming and the effects of heavy metals during the refining process. We also offer fuel additives, including corrosion inhibitors, to protect engine fuel systems and pre-market underground storage tanks and piping. Our customers include many of the largest publicly traded oil and gas companies, as well as national oil and gas companies and large independent oil and gas companies and service companies. Our Energy offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through distributors, sales agents and joint ventures. We believe we are one of the leading global providers of specialty chemicals to the upstream oil and gas industry, and downstream refineries and petrochemical operations. 6 Table of Contents Other Other consists of the Pest Elimination, Colloidal Technologies Group and (prior to its sale in November 2017) Equipment Care, operating segments. These operating segments do not meet the quantitative criteria to be separately reported. We disclose these operating segments within Other as we consider the information useful in understanding our consolidated results. Pest Elimination Pest Elimination provides services designed to detect, eliminate and prevent pests, such as rodents and insects, in restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers. The services of Pest Elimination are sold and performed by our field sales and service personnel. Pest Elimination continues to expand its geographic coverage. In addition to the United States, which constitutes the largest operation, we operate in various countries in Asia Pacific, Western Europe, Latin America and South Africa, with the largest operations in France, the United Kingdom and Greater China. We believe Pest Elimination is a leading supplier of pest elimination programs to the commercial, hospitality and institutional markets in the geographies it serves. Colloidal Technologies Group The Colloidal Technologies Group ( CTG ) produces and sells colloidal silica, which is comprised of nano-sized particles of silica in water. These products and associated programs are used primarily for binding and polishing applications. CTG serves customers across various industries, including semiconductor manufacturing, catalyst manufacturing, chemicals, and aerospace component manufacturing. CTG incorporates strong collaboration with customers to develop customized solutions that meet the technical demands of their operations. Our silica-based applications are widely used for polishing of silicon wafers, semiconductor substrates and the precision surface finishing of optics, watch crystals and other glass components. We offer a variety of silica-based particles that can be used as binders in heterogeneous catalyst systems and as silica nutrients for manufacturing specialty zeolites. Our silica products are used worldwide as a binder for precision investment casting slurries, which ultimately facilitate the manufacture of near net-shape metal parts such as turbine blades and golf club heads. Our products are sold primarily by our corporate account employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of colloidal silica. Equipment Care Prior to its sale in November 2017, Equipment Care provided equipment repair, maintenance and preventive maintenance services for the commercial food service industry. Repair services were offered for in-warranty repair, acting as the manufacturer s authorized service agent, as well as after-warranty repair. In addition, Equipment Care operated as a parts distributor to repair service companies and end-use customers. Additional Information International Operations We directly operate in approximately 100 countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in some cases, through a joint venture with a local partner. In certain countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues. In general, our businesses conducted outside the United States are similar to those conducted in the United States. Our business operations outside the United States are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, international business laws and regulations, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions. The profitability of our international operations is generally lower than the profitability of our businesses in the United States, due to (i) the additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions with varying laws and regulations, (ii) higher costs of importing certain raw materials and finished goods in some regions, (iii) the smaller scale of international operations where certain operating locations are smaller in size, and (iv) the additional reliance on distributors and agents in certain countries which can negatively impact our margins. Proportionately larger investments in sales and technical support are also necessary in certain geographies in order to facilitate the growth of our international operations. 7 Table of Contents Competition In general, the markets in which the businesses in our Global Industrial reportable segment compete are led by a few large companies, with the rest of the market served by smaller entities focusing on more limited geographic regions or a smaller subset of products and services. Our businesses in this segment compete on the basis of their demonstrated value, technical expertise, innovation, chemical formulations, customer support, detection equipment, monitoring capabilities, and dosing and metering equipment. The businesses in our Global Institutional reportable segment and Other have two significant classes of competitors. First, we compete with a small number of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or international scale. Second, we have numerous smaller regional or local competitors which focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-use customer segments. We compete principally by providing superior value, premium customer support, and innovative and differentiated products to help our customers protect their brand reputation. Our Global Energy reportable segment competes with a limited number of multinational companies, with the remainder of the market comprised of smaller, regional niche companies focused on limited geographic areas. We compete in this business on the basis of our product quality, technical expertise, chemical formulations, effective global supply chain, strong customer service and emphasis on safety and environmental leadership. Sales Products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by our Company-trai