Item 1. Business . 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors . 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments . 23 Item 2. Properties . 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings . 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . 26 Item 6. [Reserved] . 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk . 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures . 103 Item 9B. Other Information . 103 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 103 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . 104 Item 11. Executive Compensation . 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters . 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . 105 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services . 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules . 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 112 2 Table of Contents PART I Except where the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to (i) Ecolab, Company, we and our are to Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively; (ii) Nalco are to Nalco Company LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; (iii) Nalco transaction and Nalco merger are to the merger of Ecolab and Nalco Holding Company completed in December 2011; (iv) Purolite are to Purolite LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and its subsidiaries, collectively; and (v) Purolite transaction are to the Company s acquisition of the shares of the subsidiaries and certain other affiliated entities of Purolite Corporation and substantially all of the assets of Purolite Corporation used or held for use in connection with its filtration and purification resins business in December 2021. Item 1. Business . General Development of Business. Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924. Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31. International subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements on the basis of their U.S. GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) November 30 fiscal year ends to facilitate the timely inclusion of such entities in our consolidated financial reporting. On June 3, 2020, we completed the previously announced separation of our Upstream Energy business (the ChampionX business ) in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the Transaction ) through the split-off of ChampionX Holding Inc. ( ChampionX ), formed by Ecolab as a wholly owned subsidiary to hold the ChampionX business, followed immediately by the merger (the Merger ) of ChampionX with a wholly owned subsidiary of ChampionX Corporation (f/k/a Apergy Corporation, Apergy ). As discussed in Note 5 Discontinued Operations, the ChampionX business met the criteria to be reported as discontinued operations because the separation of ChampionX was a strategic shift in business that had a major effect on our operations and financial results. Therefore, we reported the historical results of ChampionX, including the results of operations and cash flows as discontinued operations, and related assets and liabilities were retrospectively reclassified for all periods presented herein. Unless otherwise noted, the accompanying financial information has been revised to reflect the effect of the separation of ChampionX and prior year balances have been revised accordingly to reflect continuing operations only. Subsequent to the separation of ChampionX, we no longer report the Upstream Energy segment, which previously held the ChampionX business. We are aligned into three reportable segments and Other. Effective in the first quarter of 2020, and in anticipation of the separation of the Upstream Energy business, we created the Upstream and Downstream operating segments from the Global Energy operating segment, which was also a reportable segment. We eliminated the Global Energy reportable segment and created the Downstream operating segment and the Upstream operating segment, which are reported in the Global Industrial reportable segment and newly established Upstream Energy reportable segment which is reported in discontinued operations, respectively. Also, in the first quarter of 2020, we announced leadership changes which allow for shared oversight and focus on the Healthcare and Life Sciences operating segments and established the Global Healthcare Life Sciences reportable segment. This segment is comprised of the Healthcare operating segment which was previously aggregated in the Global Institutional reportable segment and the Life Sciences operating segment which was previously aggregated in the Global Industrial reportable segment. Additionally, the Textile Care operating segment is reported in Other, which had previously been aggregated in the Global Industrial reportable segment. We also renamed the Global Institutional reportable segment to the Global Institutional Specialty reportable segment. We made other immaterial changes, including the movement of certain customers and cost allocations between reportable segments. On December 1, 2021, we acquired Purolite for total consideration of $3.7 billion in cash. Purolite is a leading and fast-growing global provider of high-end ion exchange resins for the separation and purification of solutions that is highly complementary to our current offering and critical to safe, high quality drug production and biopharma product purification in the life sciences industries. It also provides purification and separation solutions for critical industrial markets like microelectronics, nuclear power and food and beverage. Headquartered in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, Purolite operates in more than 30 countries. Purolite is reported within our Life Sciences operating segment. We continued to invest in and build our business through various acquisitions that complement our strategic vision. See Part II, Item 8, Note 4 of this Form 10-K for additional information about acquisitions and divestitures. Narrative Description of Business. General With 2021 sales of $12.7 billion, we are a global leader in water, hygiene and infection prevention solutions and services. We deliver comprehensive solutions, data-driven insights and personalized service to advance food safety, maintain clean and safe environments, optimize water and energy use, and improve operational efficiencies and sustainability for customers in the food, healthcare, hospitality and industrial markets in more than 170 countries around the world. Our cleaning and sanitizing programs and products and pest elimination services support customers in the foodservice, food and beverage processing, hospitality, healthcare, government and 3 Table of Contents education, retail, textile care and commercial facilities management sectors. Our products and technologies are also used in water treatment, pollution control, energy conservation, refining, primary metals manufacturing, papermaking, mining and other industrial processes. We pursue a Circle the Customer Circle the Globe strategy by providing an array of innovative programs, products and services designed to meet the specific operational and sustainability needs of our customers throughout the world. Through this strategy and our varied product and service mix, one customer may utilize the offerings of several of our operating segments. Important in our business proposition for customers is our ability to produce improved results while reducing their water and energy use. With that in mind, we focus on continually innovating to optimize both our own operations and the solutions we provide to customers, aligning with our corporate strategy to address some of the world s most pressing and complex sustainability challenges such as water scarcity and climate change. The work we do matters, and the way we do it matters to our employees, customers, investors and the communities in which we and our customers operate. Sustainability is core to our business strategy. We deliver sustainable solutions that help companies around the world achieve their business goals while reducing environmental impacts. We partner with customers at approximately three million customer locations around the world to reduce water and energy use as well as greenhouse gas emissions through our high-efficiency solutions. By partnering with our customers to help them do more with less through the use of our innovative and differentiated solutions, we aim to help our customers conserve more than 300 billion gallons of water annually by 2030. In 2020, we helped our customers conserve more than 206 billion gallons of water and avoid more than 3.5 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. The following description of our business is based upon our reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2021, which are located in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Operating segments that share similar economic characteristics and future prospects, nature of the products and production processes, end-use markets, channels of distribution and regulatory environment have been aggregated into three reportable segments: Global Industrial, Global Institutional Specialty and Global Healthcare Life Sciences. Operating segments that were not aggregated and do not exceed the quantitative criteria to be separately reported have been combined into Other. We provide similar information for Other as compared to our three reportable segments as we consider the information regarding its underlying operating segments as useful in understanding our consolidated results. Global Industrial This reportable segment consists of the Water, Food Beverage, Downstream and Paper operating segments, which provide water treatment and process applications, and cleaning and sanitizing solutions, primarily to large industrial customers within the manufacturing, food and beverage processing, transportation, chemical, primary metals and mining, power generation, global refining, petrochemical, pulp and paper industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the four operating segments which comprise our Global Industrial reportable segment follow below. Water Water serves customers across industrial and institutional markets. Within Water, our light industry markets include food and beverage, manufacturing and transportation, institutional clients including commercial buildings, hospitals, universities and hotels, and global high technology serving customers including data centers and microelectronics. Heavy industries served include power, chemicals and primary metals and mining. Water provides water treatment products and technology programs for cooling water, waste water, boiler water and process water applications. Our cooling water treatment programs are designed to control challenges associated with cooling water systems corrosion, scale and microbial fouling and contamination in open recirculating, once-through and closed systems. Our wastewater products and programs focus on improving overall plant economics, addressing compliance issues, optimizing equipment efficiency and improving operator capabilities and effectiveness. We provide integrated chemical and digitally-based solutions, process improvements and mechanical component modifications to optimize boiler performance and control corrosion and scale build-up. Our programs assist in more effectively managing water use for plant processes by optimizing the performance of treatment chemicals and equipment in order to minimize costs and maximize returns on investment. Our offerings include specialty products such as scale and corrosion inhibitors, antifoulants, pre-treatment solutions, membrane treatments, coagulants and flocculants, and anti-foamers, as well as our 3D TRASAR TM technologies, which combines chemistry, remote services and monitoring and control. We provide products and programs for water treatment and process applications aimed at combining environmental benefits with economic gains for our customers. Typically, water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency are among our primary sources of value creation for our customers, with product quality and production enhancement improvements also providing key differentiating features for many of our offerings. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of products and programs for chemical applications within the industrial water treatment industry. 4 Table of Contents Food Beverage Food Beverage provides cleaning and sanitation products and programs to facilitate the processing of products for human consumption. Food Beverage provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems, digitally-based dispensers, monitors and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants; dairy, swine and poultry farms; breweries and soft-drink bottling plants as well as meat, poultry and other food processors. Food Beverage is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during processing in order to reduce microbial contamination. Food Beverage also designs, engineers and installs CIP ( clean-in-place ) process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base. Water savings, energy savings, and operating efficiency are among our sources of value creation for our customers. Products for use in processing facilities are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees, while products for use on farms are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy, swine and poultry farm, beverage/brewery, food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processing industries. Downstream Downstream provides products and programs for process and water treatment applications specific to the petroleum refining and fuels industry, enabling our customers to profitably refine and upgrade hydrocarbons. We solve our customers toughest process and water challenges so they can reliably, sustainably and profitably refine fuels and process petrochemicals. Our proven chemistry and digital technologies combined with service increase refinery and petrochemical plant reliability and the useful life of customer assets while improving product quality and yields. Our product portfolio includes corrosion inhibitors, antifoulants, hydrogen sulfide removal, cold flow improvers, lubricity inhibitors, crude desalting, reactive monomer inhibitors, olefins, anti-polymerants, anti-oxidants and water treatment. Our customers include many of the largest publicly traded oil, refining and petrochemical companies, as well as national refining and petrochemical companies, and large independent refining companies. Our downstream offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through engineering, procurement, and construction contractors (EPC), technology licensors, distributors, sales agents and joint ventures. We believe we are one of the leading global providers of products and programs for specialty chemical applications to downstream refineries and petrochemical operations. Paper Paper provides water and process applications for the pulp and paper industries, offering a comprehensive portfolio of programs that are used in all principal steps of the papermaking process and across all grades of paper, including graphic grades, board and packaging, and tissue and towel. While Paper provides its customers similar types of products and programs for water treatment and wastewater treatment as those offered by Water, Paper also offers two specialty programs that differentiate its offerings from Water pulp applications and paper applications. Our pulp applications maximize process efficiency and increase pulp cleanliness and brightness in bleaching operations, as well as predict and monitor scaling potential utilizing on-line monitoring to design effective treatment programs and avoid costly failures. Our paper process applications focus on improving our customers operational efficiency, in part through water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency. Advanced digital sensing, monitoring and automation combine with innovative chemistries and detailed process knowledge to provide a broad range of customer solutions. Specialty products include flocculants, coagulants, dewatering aids and digester yield additives. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of water treatment products and process aids to the pulp and papermaking industry. Global Institutional Specialty This reportable segment consists of the Institutional and Specialty operating segments, which provide specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the foodservice, hospitality, lodging, government, education and retail industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the two operating segments which comprise our Global Institutional Specialty reportable segment follow below. Institutional Institutional sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment ( warewashing ), plus specialized cleaners for various applications throughout food service operations, on-premise laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and general housekeeping functions. We also sell food safety products and equipment, water filters, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging, educational and healthcare industries. Institutional also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality, healthcare and commercial facilities. Institutional develops various digital monitoring and chemical dispensing systems which are used by our customers to efficiently and safely dispense our cleaners and sanitizers, and through these products, systems and our on-site sales and service expertise, develop better results for our customers 5 Table of Contents including water savings, energy savings and operating efficiency. In addition, Institutional markets a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance. Through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, Institutional also provides customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations. With the Lobster Ink business, Institutional provides our customers with end-to-end digital training solutions designed to drive corrective actions and optimal frontline execution. Institutional sells its products and programs primarily through its direct field sales and corporate account sales personnel. Corporate account sales personnel establish relationships and negotiate contracts with larger multi-unit or chain customers. We also utilize independent, third-party foodservice, broad-line and janitorial distributors to provide logistics to end customers that prefer to work through these distributors. Many of these distributors also participate in marketing our product and service offerings to the end customers. Through our field sales personnel, we generally provide the same customer support to end-use customers supplied by these distributors as we do to direct customers. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of warewashing and laundry products and programs to the food service, hospitality and lodging markets. Specialty Specialty supplies cleaning and sanitizing chemical products and related items primarily to regional, national and international quick service restaurant ( QSR ) chains and food retailers (i.e., supermarkets and grocery stores). Its products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools and equipment which are primarily sold under the Ecolab and Kay brand names. Specialty s cleaning and sanitation programs are customized to meet the needs of the market segments it serves and are designed to provide highly effective cleaning performance, promote food safety, reduce labor, water and energy costs and enhance user and guest safety. A number of dispensing options are available for products in the core product range. Specialty supports its product sales with training programs and technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers. Both Specialty s QSR business and its food retail business utilize their corporate account sales force which manages relationships with customers at the corporate and regional office levels (and, in the QSR market segment, at the franchisee level) and their field sales force which provides program support at the individual restaurant or store level. QSR customers are primarily supplied through third party distributors while most food retail customers utilize their own distribution networks. While Specialty s customer base has broadened significantly over the years, Specialty s business remains largely dependent upon a limited number of major QSR chains and franchisees and large food retail customers. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global QSR market and a leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global food retail market. Global Healthcare Life Sciences This reportable segment consists of the Healthcare and Life Sciences operating segments, which provide specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the healthcare, personal care and pharmaceutical industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the two operating segments which comprise our Global Healthcare Life Sciences reportable segment follow below. Healthcare Healthcare provides infection prevention and surgical solutions to acute care hospitals, surgery centers and medical device Original Equipment Manufacturers ( OEM ). Healthcare s proprietary infection prevention and surgical solutions (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfection, digital monitoring systems, instrument cleaning, patient drapes, equipment drapes and surgical fluid warming and cooling systems) are sold primarily under the Ecolab, Microtek, and Anios brand names to various departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room). Healthcare sells its products and programs principally through its field sales personnel and corporate account personnel but also sells through healthcare distributors. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of infection prevention and surgical solutions in the United States and Europe. Life Sciences Life Sciences provides end-to-end cleaning and contamination control solutions to pharmaceutical and personal care manufacturers. These products are primarily sold under the Ecolab brand name, and include detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, disinfectants, surface wipes, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products. With the acquisition of Purolite, the portfolio now includes premium fluid treatment and purification solutions with a broad range of unique products sold under the Purolite brand name, particularly focusing on biopharma purification solutions, active pharmaceutical ingredients ( API s ) and high value industrial applications. The Life Sciences portfolio also includes decontamination systems and services utilizing hydrogen peroxide vapor, which are sold under the Bioquell brand name. The pharmaceutical clean room environment is the primary area that Ecolab and Bioquell products are utilized. Purolite products are primarily used in the purification of biologic therapeutics, API s and high value industrial applications. Products and programs are sold primarily through our field sales and corporate account personnel, and to a lesser extent through distributors. 6 Table of Contents Life Sciences is comprised of customers and accounts related to manufacturing in the following industries: pharmaceutical, animal health and medicine, blood purification and dialysis, biologic products, cosmetics and medical devices. Our tailored, comprehensive solutions and technical know-how focus on ensuring product quality, safety and compliance standards are met while improving operational efficiency in customers cleaning, sanitation and disinfection processes. We believe we are one of the leading suppliers of process purification solutions in Europe and North America and of contamination control solutions in Europe, with a growing presence in North America and other regions. Other Other consists of the Pest Elimination, Textile Care and Colloidal Technologies Group operating segments. These operating segments do not meet the quantitative criteria to be separately reported. We disclose these operating segments within Other as we consider the information useful in understanding our consolidated results. Pest Elimination Pest Elimination provides services designed to detect, eliminate and prevent pests, such as rodents and insects, in restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers. The services of Pest Elimination are sold and performed by our field sales and service personnel. In addition to the United States, which constitutes the largest operation, we operate in various countries in Asia Pacific, Greater China, Western Europe, Latin America and South Africa. We believe Pest Elimination is a leading supplier of pest elimination programs to the commercial, hospitality and institutional markets in the geographies it serves. Textile Care Textile Care provides products and services that manage the entire wash process through custom designed programs, premium products, dispensing equipment, water and energy management and reduction, and real time data management for large scale, complex commercial laundry operations including uniform rental, hospitality, linen rental and healthcare laundries. Textile Care s programs are designed to meet our customers needs for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing our customers overall operating costs. Products and programs are marketed primarily through our field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through distributors. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers in the laundry markets in which we compete. Colloidal Technologies Group The Colloidal Technologies Group ( CTG ) produces and sells colloidal silica, which is comprised of nano-sized particles of silica in water. These products and associated programs are used primarily for binding and polishing applications. CTG serves customers across various industries, including semiconductor manufacturing, catalyst manufacturing, chemicals and aerospace component manufacturing. CTG incorporates strong collaboration with customers to develop customized solutions that meet the technical demands of their operations. Our silica-based applications are widely used for polishing of silicon wafers, semiconductor substrates and the precision surface finishing of optics, watch crystals and other glass components. We offer a variety of silica-based particles that can be used as binders in heterogeneous catalyst systems and as silica nutrients for manufacturing specialty zeolites. Our silica products are used worldwide as a binder for precision investment casting slurries, which ultimately facilitate the manufacture of near net-shape metal parts such as turbine blades and golf club heads. Our products are sold primarily by our corporate account employees. We believe we are one of the leading global suppliers of colloidal silica. 7 Table of Contents Additional Information International Operations We directly operate in approximately 100 countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in some cases, through a joint venture with a local partner. In certain countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues. In general, our businesses conducted outside the United States are similar to those conducted in the United States. Our business operations outside the United States are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, international business laws and regulations, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions. The profitability of our international operations is generally lower than the profitability of our businesses in the United Stat