Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 I tem 1C . C yber s ecurity 26 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. Reserved 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 104 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 104 Item 9B. Other Information 104 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 106 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 107 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 108 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 109 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 112 Signatures 113 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Equifax Inc. is a global data, analytics and technology company. We provide information solutions for businesses, governments and consumers, and we provide human resources business process automation and outsourcing services for employers. We have a large and diversified group of clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government agencies and individuals. Our services are based on comprehensive databases of consumer and business information derived from numerous sources including credit, financial assets, telecommunications and utility payments, employment, income, educational history, criminal justice data, healthcare professional licensure and sanctions, demographic and marketing data. We use advanced statistical techniques, machine learning and proprietary software tools to analyze available data to create customized insights, decision-making and process automation solutions and processing services for our clients. We are a leading provider of information and solutions used in payroll-related and human resource management business process services in the United States of America ( U.S. ) as well as e-commerce fraud and charge back protection services in North America. For consumers, we provide products and services to help people understand, manage and protect their personal information and make more informed financial decisions. Additionally, we also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management. We currently operate in four global regions: North America (U.S. and Canada), Asia Pacific (Australia, New Zealand and India), Europe (the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), Spain and Portugal) and Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay). We maintain support operations in Chile, Costa Rica, India and Ireland. We also have investments in consumer and/or commercial credit information companies through joint ventures in Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and Brazil. Equifax was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia in 1913, and its predecessor company dates back to 1899. As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company, we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc. We are organized and report our business results in three operating segments, as follows: Workforce Solutions provides services enabling customers to verify income, employment, educational history, criminal justice data, healthcare professional licensure and sanctions of people in the U.S. (Verification Services), as well as providing our employer customers with services which include unemployment claims management, I-9 and onboarding services, Affordable Care Act compliance management, tax credits and incentives and other complementary employment-based transaction services (Employer Services). Workforce Solutions has established operations in Canada, Australia and the U.K. U.S. Information Solutions ( USIS ) provides consumer and commercial information solutions to businesses in the U.S. including online information, decisioning technology solutions, identity management services, analytical services, e-commerce fraud and charge back protection services, portfolio management services, mortgage information and marketing services. We provide products to consumers in the U.S. to enable them to understand and monitor their credit and help protect their identity. We also sell consumer credit information to resellers who may combine our information with other information to provide direct-to-consumer monitoring, reports and scores. International provides products and services similar to those available in the USIS operating segment but with variations by geographic region. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management. In addition, we provide products to consumers in Canada, the U.K., Australia and Chile to enable them to understand and monitor their credit and help protect their identity. This operating segment is comprised of our Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America and Canada business units. It also includes our joint ventures in Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and Brazil. 2 Our Business Strategy Our vision is to be a trusted global leader in data, analytics and technology that creates innovative solutions and insights for our customers. Our business strategy is driven by the following imperatives: Leverage our Equifax cloud capabilities and technology investment to accelerate innovation, new products and growth. We are executing a cloud data and technology transformation that is rebuilding our technology infrastructure, including a migration to a public cloud environment that employs virtual private cloud deployment techniques. We are rationalizing and rebuilding our application portfolio using cloud-native services. Our move to cloud-native technology is enabling the continued development of our single data fabric, which is a cloud native platform that enables Equifax to build, manage and deploy data products, as well as implementation of best-in-class cloud-based tools and capabilities. Our growth strategy is to leverage our cloud data and technology transformation to accelerate innovation and new product development; deliver market-leading capabilities to our customers; facilitate customer and partner implementation and integration; improve ease of consumer access to and interaction with Equifax; and strengthen system resiliency and uptime. Leverage and expand our differentiated portfolio of data assets. We use proprietary advanced analytical platforms, including capabilities in machine learning, artificial intelligence and advanced visualization tools, to leverage our unique data to develop leading analytical insights that enhance the precision of our customers decisioning activities. Based on our cloud native data and technology transformation, we are investing to simplify our customers access to our leading analytical and decisioning platforms, in order to speed the development of unique insights and the conversion of these insights into innovative new products and services consumable by our customers through our delivery platforms. We strive to advance these capabilities and bring our customers multi-data solutions at scale by expanding our unique and differentiated data assets and analytics through organic growth, business acquisitions and partnerships. Foster a culture of putting customers and consumers first. We are focused on maintaining a culture in which our customers and consumers are at the center of our decision processes, and where we exceed customer and consumer expectations by delivering solutions with speed, flexibility, stability and performance. We prioritize engagement with our customers and strive to accelerate innovation through collaboration. We seek to leverage our cloud native technology and unique data assets and capabilities, as well as customer expertise and data and technology assets, to drive the development of high-value analytical products and services designed to address a broader range of customer and consumer needs. We work to maximize the value of our differentiated data assets, analytics and decisioning to drive new products and services that provide a fuller picture of consumers and commercial entities to our customers in banking and financial services, government, employee hiring and onboarding and other service providers. Execute strategic acquisitions that expand our data portfolio and capabilities and drive revenue growth. A critical lever of our strategy is inorganic growth through accretive and strategic acquisitions that drive incremental annual revenue growth. Our acquisition priorities are clear and focused on re-investing in acquisitions that expand our unique differentiated data assets and solutions to strengthen and grow our core businesses. We continue to invest, including through acquisitions and partnerships, to expand our addressable markets and the data and capabilities we offer to solve customer challenges across the services we provide and to expand our access to differentiated data including across identity authentication, fraud mitigation and risk management. We believe there are opportunities to continue to expand in the U.S. and internationally, across the existing financial, mortgage, telecommunications, automotive, insurance, talent management, human resource services, government and other markets that we serve, as well as in new and emerging market segments. Continue our leadership in data security. We are committed to being an industry leader in security. We have built an Equifax culture that prioritizes security, and we consider data and technology security, and more broadly risk management, as a primary requirement in all decisions. We make extensive use of advanced data and technology security tools, techniques, services and processes in order to enhance our ability to protect the information with which we are entrusted. We are committed to working openly with our peers, customers and partners to tackle emerging security challenges, document best practices, provide vital data security thought leadership and work together to deliver solutions that benefit both the security community and consumers. Build a world-class Equifax team by investing in talent to drive our strategy and promote a culture of innovation. At Equifax, we are committed to nurturing a culture where diverse talent thrives. We are focused on providing meaningful opportunities for career advancement and development, fostering an inclusive work 3 environment, and promoting employee engagement and recognition. We leverage our enterprise-wide talent initiatives to develop, retain and attract a highly-qualified workforce in order to promote our culture of innovation, add diverse perspectives and deliver on our business strategy. We seek to enhance shareholder value through the disciplined execution of these imperatives and by positioning our Company as a global data, analytics and technology leader with industry-leading security. Markets and Clients Our products and services serve clients across a wide range of verticals, including mortgage, financial services, employers, government (state, federal and local), automotive, commercial, identity and fraud, consumer, resellers, healthcare, telecommunications, retail and insurance. We also serve consumers directly. Our revenue streams are highly diversified with our largest client providing approximately 2% of total revenue. The following table summarizes the various end-user markets we serve: 1. Predominantly sold to companies who serve the direct-to-consumer market and includes other small end user markets. Mortgage and auto resellers are excluded from this category as they are included within their respective categories above. 2. Other includes revenue from other miscellaneous end-user markets. We market our products and services primarily through our own direct sales organization that is structured around sales teams that focus on client segments typically aligned by vertical markets and geography. In the U.S., the vertical market sales teams for the Mortgage, Financial, Government and Automotive markets sell products from both the USIS and Workforce Solutions business units. Sales groups are based in field offices located throughout the U.S., including our headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and in the countries where we have operations. We also market our products and services through indirect channels, including alliance partners, joint ventures and other resellers. In addition, we market our products directly to consumers through e-commerce channels. Revenue from international clients, including end users and resellers, amounted to 23% of our total revenue in 2023, 22% of our total revenue in 2022 and 22% of our total revenue in 2021. Products and Services Our products and services help our clients make more informed decisions with higher levels of confidence by leveraging a broad array of data assets. Analytics are used to derive insights from the data that are most relevant for the client s decisioning needs. The data and insights are then processed through proprietary software and generally transmitted to the client s operating system to execute the decision. 4 The following chart summarizes the key products and services offered by each of the business units within our segments: Workforce Solutions USIS International Verification Services Employer Services Online Information Solutions Financial Marketing Services Europe Asia Pacific Latin America Canada Online data X X X X X X Portfolio management services X X X X X X X Analytical services X X X X X X X X Technology services X X X X X Identity verification services X X X X X X X Fraud management services X X X X X X X Marketing services X X X X X Direct-to-consumer services X X X X X X Employment and income verification services X X X X Talent management X X Business process outsourcing (BPO) X X X Debt collection software, services and analytics X X X Each of our operating segments is described more fully below. For the operating revenue, operating income and total assets for each segment, see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Workforce Solutions Workforce Solutions operates in the U.S. through two business units: Verification Services. Verification Services include employment, income, educational history, criminal justice data, healthcare professional licensure and sanctions verification services. Our online verification services enable third-party verifiers, including various governmental agencies, mortgage originators, credit card and automotive lenders and pre-employment screeners, to verify the employee s employment status and income information. We also offer an offline manual verification service, which expands employment verification to locate data outside our existing automated database. In addition, Verification Services administers a comprehensive source of incarceration, justice and people-based risk intelligence data. Employer Services. These services are aimed at reducing the cost of the human resources function of businesses through a broad suite of services, including assisting with employment tax matters designed to reduce the cost of unemployment claims through effective claims representation and management and efficient processing to better manage the tax rate that employers are assessed for unemployment taxes; comprehensive services designed to research the availability of employment-related tax credits (e.g., federal work opportunity tax credits and employee retention credits), and to process the necessary filings and assist the client in obtaining the tax credit; tax form management services (which include initial distribution, reissuance and correction of W-2 and 1095-C forms); I-9 management services designed to help clients electronically comply with the immigration laws that require employers to complete an I-9 form for each new hire; immigration case management services; onboarding services using an online platform to complete the new hire process for employees of corporations and government agencies; and identity theft protection services. In addition, we provide software and services to employers to assist in their compliance with the Affordable Care Act. The Work Number is our key repository of employment and income data serving our Verification Services business unit. We rely on payroll data received from over three million organizations to regularly update the database. The updates occur as employers and other data contributors transmit data electronically to Equifax from their payroll systems. Employers provide this data to us so that we can handle verification requests on behalf of each employer. We use this data to provide automated employment and income verification services to verifiers, who are lenders, employers/background screeners and government agencies. The fees we charge for services in these two business units are generally on a per transaction basis. We have not experienced significant turnover in the employer contributors to the database because we generally do not charge them to add their employment data to The Work Number database, and the verification service we offer relieves them of the administrative burden and expense of responding to third-party employment verification requests while providing them with the assurance that 5 the process is automated and not subject to human interpretation. The Work Number database held about 168 million current and 657 million total (current and historic) employment records at December 31, 2023. Workforce Solutions has established an income and employment verification service in Canada, Australia and the U.K., known as Verification Exchange. At present, revenues from these services in all three regions mentioned are insignificant. USIS USIS provides consumer and commercial information solutions to businesses in the U.S. through three product and service lines, as follows: Online Information Solutions. Online Information Solutions products are derived from multiple large and comprehensive databases of consumer and commercial information that we maintain about individual consumers and businesses, including credit history, current credit status, payment history, address and other identity information. Our clients utilize the information and analytical insights we provide to make decisions for a broad range of financial and business purposes, such as whether, and on what terms, to approve auto loans or credit card applications, and whether to allow a consumer or a business to open a new utility or telephone account. In addition, this information is used by our clients for cross-selling additional products to existing customers, improving their underwriting and risk management decisions, and authenticating and verifying consumer and business identities. We also sell consumer and credit information to resellers who may combine our information with other information to provide services to the financial, mortgage, fraud and identity management, and other end-user markets. Our software platforms and analytical capabilities can integrate all types of information, including third-party and client information, to enhance the insights and decisioning process to help further mitigate the risk of granting credit, predict the risk of bankruptcy, indicate the applicant s risk potential for account delinquency, ensure the identity of the consumer and reduce exposure to fraud. Identity verification and fraud management products combine financial and non-financial identity information and activity to provide identity verification and authentication services, to assist customers in assessing the risk of loss due to account takeover, identity theft and chargebacks. These risk management services enable our clients to monitor risks and opportunities and proactively manage their portfolios. Online Information Solutions clients access products through a full range of electronic distribution mechanisms, including direct real-time access, which facilitates instant decisions. We also develop and host customized applications that enhance the decision-making process for our clients. These decisioning technology applications assist with a wide variety of decisioning activities, including determining pre-approved offers, cross-selling of various products, determining deposit amounts for telephone and utility companies and verifying the identity of their customers. We have also compiled commercial databases regarding businesses in the U.S., which include loan, credit card, public records and leasing history data, trade accounts receivable performance and Secretary of State and Securities and Exchange Commission registration information. We offer scoring and analytical services that provide additional information to help mitigate the credit risk assumed by our clients. Online Information Solutions also includes our consumer solutions product suite that gives U.S. consumers information to enable them to understand and monitor their credit and to monitor and help protect their identity. Equifax products offer monitoring features for consumers who are concerned about identity theft, including credit report monitoring from all three credit bureaus, internet scanning, bank account monitoring and lost wallet support. Products may also be available indirectly through relationships with business partners who distribute our products or provide these services to their employees or customers. We also sell consumer credit information to resellers who may combine our information with other information to provide direct-to-consumer monitoring, reports and scores. Mortgage Solutions. Our Mortgage Solutions products, offered in the U.S., consist of specialized credit reports that combine information from the three major consumer credit reporting agencies (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) into a single merged credit report in an online format, commonly referred to as a tri-merge report. Mortgage lenders use these tri-merge reports in making their mortgage underwriting decisions. Additionally, we offer services designed to alert lenders to changes in a consumer s credit status during the underwriting period and securitized portfolio risk assessment services for evaluating inherent portfolio risk. Financial Marketing Services. Our Financial Marketing Services products utilize consumer and commercial financial information enabling our clients to more effectively manage their marketing efforts, including targeting and segmentation, to identify and acquire new clients for their products and services; to develop portfolio strategies to minimize risk and maximize profitability; and to realize additional revenue from existing customers through more effective cross-selling of additional products and services. Our products are also utilized by customers to support digital identity verification and fraud detection and protection. These products utilize information derived from consumer and commercial information, including credit, 6 income, asset, liquidity, net worth and spending activity, which also support many of our Online Information Solutions products. These data assets broaden the understanding of consumer and business financial potential and opportunity, which can further drive high value decisioning and targeting solutions for our clients. We also provide account review services, which assist our clients in managing their existing customers and prescreen services that help our clients identify new opportunities with their customers. Clients for these products primarily include institutions in the banking, brokerage, retail, insurance and mortgage industries as well as companies primarily focused on digital and interactive marketing. International The International operating segment includes our Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America and Canada business units. It also includes our joint ventures in Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and Brazil. These business units offer products that are similar to those available in the USIS operating segment, but with variations by geographic region. In some jurisdictions, data sources tend to rely more heavily on government agencies than in the U.S. We also offer specialized services that help our customers better manage risk in their consumer portfolios. This operating segment s products and services generate revenue in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, India, Mexico, New Zealand, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Spain, the U.K. and Uruguay. We also maintain support operations in Chile, Costa Rica, India and Ireland. We have investments in consumer and/or commercial credit information companies through joint ventures in Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and Brazil. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management in Asia Pacific, Europe, Canada and Latin America. Asia Pacific. Our Asia Pacific operation provides consumer and commercial information solutions products, marketing products, employment verification services and consumer credit protection products. We offer a full range of products, generated from credit records and other data, including credit reporting and scoring, decisioning technology, risk management, identity management, authentication and fraud detection services. Our consumer and commercial products are the primary source of revenue in each of the countries in which we operate and include credit reporting, decisioning tools and risk management services. We also provide information, technology and services to support talent management, as well as debt collections and recovery management. Additionally, we provide a variety of consumer and commercial marketing products generated from information databases, including business profile analysis, business prospect lists and database management. The countries in which we operate include Australia, New Zealand and India, as well as Cambodia, Malaysia and Singapore through joint ventures. Europe. Our Europe operation provides information solutions, fraud detection services, debt collection services and marketing products. Information solutions and fraud products are generated from information that we maintain and include credit reporting, monitoring and scoring, asset information, risk management, identity management and authentication services and fraud detection and modeling services. These products are sold in the U.K. and Spain. Limited marketing products are available in the U.K. and, to a lesser extent, in Spain. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management in the U.K. and Spain. In the U.K., this includes a contract to provide these services to the U.K. government. Latin America. Our Latin America operation provides consumer and commercial information solutions products, marketing products and consumer credit protection products. We offer a full range of products, generated from credit records that we maintain, including credit reporting and scoring, decisioning technology, risk management, identity management, authentication and fraud detection services. Our consumer products are the primary source of revenue in each of the countries in this region in which we operate, with the exception of Mexico where debt management services constitute the core of the business. We also offer various commercial products, which include credit reporting, decisioning tools and risk management services, in the countries we serve. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management. Additionally, we provide a variety of consumer and commercial marketing products generated from our credit information databases, including business profile analysis, business prospect lists and database management. The countries in this region in which we operate include Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay. We also have an investment in a consumer credit information company through a joint venture in Brazil. Canada. Similar to the USIS business units, our Canada operation offers products derived from the credit information that we maintain about individual consumers and businesses. We offer many products in Canada, including credit reporting, monitoring and scoring, consumer and commercial marketing, risk management, fraud detection and modeling services, identity management and authentication services, together with certain of our decisioning products that facilitate pre-approved offers of credit and automate a variety of credit decisions. We also offer commercial credit solutions, which help businesses manage financial and credit risk and gain insights on customers, markets and industry groups using our commercial data assets. We also provide data, technology and services to facilitate the search of land data and process real estate transactions in Canada. 7 Competition The market for our products and services is highly competitive and is subject to constant change. Our competitors vary widely in size and in the nature of the products and services they offer. Sources of competition are numerous and include the following: Competition in the Verification Services market, for both the U.S.