Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 115 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 115 Item 9B. Other Information 115 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 116 Item 11. Executive Compensation 117 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 117 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 117 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 117 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 118 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 122 Signatures 122 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Equifax Inc. is a global data, analytics and technology company. We provide information solutions for businesses, governments and consumers, and we provide human resources business process outsourcing services for employers. We have a large and diversified group of clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government agencies and individuals. Our services are based on comprehensive databases of consumer and business information derived from numerous sources including credit, financial assets, telecommunications and utility payments, employment, income, demographic and marketing data. We use advanced statistical techniques, machine learning and proprietary software tools to analyze available data to create customized insights, decision-making solutions and processing services for our clients. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management. Additionally, we are a leading provider of payroll-related and human resource management business process outsourcing services in the United States of America ( U.S. ). For consumers, we provide products and services to help people understand, manage and protect their personal information and make more informed financial decisions. We currently operate in four global regions: North America (U.S. and Canada), Asia Pacific (Australia, New Zealand and India), Europe (the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), Spain and Portugal) and Latin America (Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay). We maintain support operations in the Republic of Ireland, Chile, Costa Rica and India. We also offer Equifax branded credit services in Russia through a joint venture, have investments in consumer and/or commercial credit information companies through joint ventures in Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, have an investment in a consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil and have an investment in an identity authentication company in Canada. Equifax was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia in 1913, and its predecessor company dates back to 1899. As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company, we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc. We are organized and report our business results in four operating segments, as follows: U.S. Information Solutions ( USIS ) provides consumer and commercial information solutions to businesses in the U.S. including online information, decisioning technology solutions, fraud and identity management services, analytical services, portfolio management services, mortgage reporting and marketing services. Workforce Solutions provides services enabling customers to verify income and employment (Verification Services) of people in the U.S., as well as providing our employer customers with services that assist them in complying with and automating certain payroll-related and human resource management processes throughout the entire cycle of the employment relationship, including unemployment cost management, employee onboarding, tax credits and incentives, I-9 management and compliance, tax form management services and Affordable Care Act management services (Employer Services). Workforce Solutions has recently established Verifications Service operations in Canada and is working toward a similar operation in Australia. International provides products and services similar to those available in the USIS operating segment but with variations by geographic region. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management. This operating segment is comprised of our Canada, Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific business units. Global Consumer Solutions provides products to consumers in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., enabling them to understand and monitor their credit and monitor and help protect their identity. We also sell consumer credit information to resellers who may combine our information with other information to provide direct-to-consumer monitoring, reports and scores. 2017 Cybersecurity Incident In 2017, we experienced a cybersecurity incident following a criminal attack on our systems that involved the theft of certain personally identifiable information of U.S., Canadian and U.K. consumers. Criminals exploited a software vulnerability in a U.S. website application to gain unauthorized access to our network. In March 2017, the U.S. Department of Homeland 2 Security distributed a notice concerning the software vulnerability. We undertook efforts to identify and remediate vulnerable systems; however, the vulnerability in the website application that was exploited was not identified by our security processes. We discovered unusual network activity in late-July 2017 and upon discovery promptly investigated the activity. Once the activity was identified as potential unauthorized access, we acted to stop the intrusion and engaged a leading, independent cybersecurity firm to conduct a forensic investigation to determine the scope of the unauthorized access, including the specific information impacted. Based on our forensic investigation, the unauthorized access occurred from mid-May 2017 through July 2017. No evidence was found that the Company s core consumer, employment and income, or commercial reporting databases were accessed. We continue to cooperate with law enforcement in connection with the criminal investigation into the actors responsible for the 2017 cybersecurity incident. On February 10, 2020, the U.S. Department of Justice announced that four members of the Chinese People s Liberation Army were indicted on criminal charges for their involvement in the 2017 cybersecurity incident. The Company has taken actions to provide consumers with tools to protect their credit data. Immediately following the announcement of the 2017 cybersecurity incident, the Company devoted substantial resources to notify people of the incident and to provide free services to assist people in monitoring their credit and identity information. Since then, the Company has been focused on implementing significant improvements to its data security systems, technology platforms and risk management processes, in an effort to underpin its business strategy. Our Business Strategy Our vision is to be a trusted global leader in data, advanced analytics and technology that creates innovative solutions and insights for our customers. Our business strategy is driven by the following imperatives: Lead our industry in data security. We are focused on becoming a leader in our industry in the effectiveness of our data and technology security practices. This includes building an Equifax culture that considers data and technology security, and more broadly risk management, as a primary requirement in all decisions. This also includes the extensive use of advanced data and technology security tools, techniques, services and processes in order to enhance our ability to protect the information with which we are entrusted from fraudulent access. Transform our technology. We are rebuilding our technology infrastructure, accelerating our migration to a public cloud environment, employing virtual private cloud deployment techniques, and rationalizing and rebuilding our application portfolio using cloud-native services. This technology transformation is a significant part of our goal of leading our industry in data and technology security capability. Our goal is to deliver market-leading capabilities to our customers in terms of speed of bringing new products and services to market; ease of customer and partner implementation and integration; ease of consumer access to and interaction with Equifax; system resiliency and uptime; and ultimately cost to serve. We are undergoing a multi-year technology transformation which is already broadly impacting our internal and external information technology systems. Lead in data and analytics, to develop unparalleled analytical insights leveraging Equifax s unique data. We use proprietary advanced analytical platforms, including capabilities in machine learning and advanced visualization tools, to leverage our unique data to develop leading analytical insights that enhance the precision of our customers decisioning activities. We strive to continue to advance these capabilities through ongoing data monetization activities, the acquisition of distinctive and differentiated assets, and continued advancement of capabilities in artificial intelligence and machine learning. As part of our technology transformation, we are investing to simplify our customers access to our leading analytical platforms, in order to speed the development of unique insights and the conversion of these insights into new products and services consumable by our customers through our delivery platforms. We offer a wide array of products, ranging from custom products for large clients, to software-as-a-service-based decisioning and data access technology platforms that are cost-effective for clients of all sizes. We also develop predictive scores and analytics, some of which leverage multiple data assets, to help clients acquire new customers and manage their existing customer relationships. We develop a broad array of industry, risk management, cross-sell and account acquisition models to enhance the precision of our clients decisioning activities. We also develop custom and generic solutions that enable customers to effectively manage their debt collection and recovery portfolios. Improve the consumer user experience. Equifax understands the importance of providing consumers with user-friendly capabilities to see, understand and question their consumer credit file and information. As part of our 3 technology transformation, we are rebuilding our digital and call center technology infrastructure to provide an experience focused on making consumers interactions with Equifax as effective and efficient as possible. Foster a culture of customer centricity. We are focused on building a culture in which the customer is at the center of our decision processes and we exceed customer expectations by delivering solutions with speed, flexibility, stability and performance. Our focus on customer centricity will enable us to be more proactive in solving problems better and faster for customers while delivering enhanced operational readiness to provide a better customer experience. Deliver growth while enhancing profitability and shareholder returns. We strive to accelerate innovation through expanded customer focus and collaboration. We intend to leverage our unique data assets and capabilities, as well as customer expertise and customer data and technology assets, to help us jointly create high-value analytical products and services targeted at a broader range of customer needs. We seek to expand partnerships in order to further broaden the key customer domains and verticals that our products and services are able to serve. We seek to increase our share of clients spend on information-related services through these new products and services, price our products and services in accordance with the value they represent to our customers, increase the range of current products and services utilized by our clients, and improve the quality and effectiveness of our support for both customers and consumers. We believe there are opportunities to continue to expand in the U.S. and internationally, across the existing financial, mortgage, telecommunications, automotive, insurance, healthcare, government and other markets that we serve, as well as in new and emerging market segments. We continue to invest, including through acquisitions and partnerships, to expand our addressable markets and the data and capabilities we offer to solve customer challenges ranging from identity authentication to risk management. We seek to enhance shareholder value through the disciplined execution of these imperatives and by positioning ourselves as a premier and trusted provider of high value information solutions. Build a world-class Equifax team by investing in talent to drive our strategy and promote a culture of innovation. We attract top talent by providing opportunities to grow and lead within our company. We regularly undertake talent initiatives to engage, develop and retain our top talent. 4 Markets and Clients Our products and services serve clients across a wide range of verticals, including financial services, mortgage, state and federal government, employers, consumer, commercial, telecommunications, retail, automotive, utilities, brokerage, healthcare and insurance industries. We also serve consumers directly. Our revenue streams are highly diversified with our largest client providing less than 3% of total revenue. The following table summarizes the various end-user markets we serve: (1) Predominantly sold to companies who serve the direct-to-consumer market and includes other small end user markets. Mortgage and auto resellers are excluded from this category as they are included within their respective categories above. (2) Other includes revenue from other miscellaneous end-user markets. We market our products and services primarily through our own direct sales organization that is structured around sales teams that focus on client segments typically aligned by vertical markets and geography. Sales groups are based in field offices located throughout the U.S., including our headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and in the countries where we have operations. We also market our products and services through indirect channels, including alliance partners, joint ventures and other resellers. In addition, we sell through direct mail and the internet. Revenue from international clients, including end users and resellers, amounted to 27% of our total revenue in 2019, 29% of our total revenue in 2018 and 29% of our total revenue in 2017. Products and Services Our products and services help our clients make more informed decisions with higher levels of confidence by leveraging a broad array of data assets. Analytics are used to derive insights from the data that are most relevant for the client s decisioning needs. The data and insights are then processed through proprietary software and generally transmitted to the client s operating system to execute the decision. 5 The following chart summarizes the key products and services offered by each of the business units within our segments: USIS Workforce Solutions International Online Information Solutions Financial Marketing Services Mortgage Services Verification Services Employer Services Europe Asia Pacific Latin America Canada Global Consumer Solutions Online data X X X X X X X X Portfolio management services X X X X X X X X Analytical services X X X X X X X X X X Technology services X X X X X X Identity management and fraud X X X X X X X Marketing Services X X X X X Direct-to-consumer credit monitoring X X Employment and income verification services X X Business process outsourcing (BPO) X X X Debt collection software, services and analytics X X X X Each of our operating segments is described more fully below. For the operating revenue, operating income and total assets for each segment see Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. USIS USIS provides consumer and commercial information solutions to businesses in the U.S. through three product and service lines, as follows: Online Information Solutions. Online Information Solutions products are derived from multiple large and comprehensive databases of consumer and commercial information that we maintain about individual consumers and businesses, including credit history, current credit status, payment history and address information. Our clients utilize the information and analytical insights we provide to make decisions for a broad range of financial and business purposes, such as whether, and on what terms, to approve auto loans or credit card applications, and whether to allow a consumer or a business to open a new utility or telephone account. In addition, this information is used by our clients for cross-selling additional products to existing customers, improving their underwriting and risk management decisions, and authenticating and verifying consumer and business identities. We also sell consumer and credit information to resellers who may combine our information with other information to provide services to the financial, mortgage, fraud and identity management, and other end-user markets. Our software platforms and analytical capabilities can integrate all types of information, including third-party and client information, to enhance the insights and decisioning process to help further mitigate the risk of granting credit, predict the risk of bankruptcy, indicate the applicant s risk potential for account delinquency, ensure the identity of the consumer, and reduce exposure to fraud. These risk management services enable our clients to monitor risks and opportunities and proactively manage their portfolios. Online Information Solutions clients access products through a full range of electronic distribution mechanisms, including direct real-time access which facilitates instant decisions. We also develop and host customized applications that enhance the decision-making process for our clients. These decisioning technology applications assist with a wide variety of decisioning activities, including determining pre-approved offers, cross-selling of various products, determining deposit amounts for telephone and utility companies, and verifying the identity of their customers. We have also compiled commercial databases regarding businesses in the U.S., which include loan, credit card, public records and leasing history data, trade accounts receivable performance, and Secretary of State and Securities and Exchange Commission registration information. We offer scoring and analytical services that provide additional information to help mitigate the credit risk assumed by our clients. Mortgage Solutions. Our Mortgage Solutions products, offered in the U.S., consist of specialized credit reports that combine information from the three major consumer credit reporting agencies (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion) into a single merged credit report in an online format, commonly referred to as a tri-merge report. Mortgage lenders use these tri-merge reports in making their mortgage underwriting decisions. Additionally, we offer services designed to alert lenders to changes in a consumer s credit status during the underwriting period and securitized portfolio risk assessment services for evaluating inherent portfolio risk. 6 Financial Marketing Services. Our Financial Marketing Services products utilize consumer and commercial financial information enabling our clients to more effectively manage their marketing efforts, including targeting and segmentation, to identify and acquire new clients for their products and services; to develop portfolio strategies to minimize risk and maximize profitability; and to realize additional revenue from existing customers through more effective cross-selling of additional products and services. These products utilize information derived from consumer and commercial information, including credit, income, asset, liquidity, net worth and spending activity, which also support many of our Online Information Solutions products. These data assets broaden the understanding of consumer and business financial potential and opportunity which can further drive high value decisioning and targeting solutions for our clients. We also provide account review services, which assist our clients in managing their existing customers and prescreen services that help our clients identify new opportunities with their customers. Clients for these products primarily include institutions in the banking, brokerage, retail, insurance and mortgage industries as well as companies primarily focused on digital and interactive marketing. Workforce Solutions Workforce Solutions operates in the U.S. through two business units: Verification Services. Verification Services include employment and income verification services. Our online verification services enable third-party verifiers including various governmental agencies, mortgage originators, credit card and automotive lenders and pre-employment screeners to verify the employee s employment status and income information. We also offer an offline manual verification service, which expands employment verification to locate data outside our existing automated database. We also offer various government direct data services, where we process tax forms on behalf of our customers with the applicable government agency. Employer Services. These services are aimed at reducing the cost of the human resources function of businesses through a broad suite of services including assisting with employment tax matters designed to reduce the cost of unemployment claims through effective claims representation and management and efficient processing and to better manage the tax rate that employers are assessed for unemployment taxes; comprehensive services designed to research the availability of employment-related tax credits (e.g., federal work opportunity tax credits), and to process the necessary filings and assist the client in obtaining the tax credit; tax form management services (which include initial distribution, reissuance and correction of W-2 and 1095-C forms); paperless pay services that enable employees to electronically receive pay statement information as well as review and change direct deposit account or W-4 information; I-9 management services designed to help clients electronically comply with the immigration laws that require employers to complete an I-9 form for each new hire; and onboarding services using an online platform to complete the new hire process for employees of corporations and government agencies. In addition, we provide software and services to employers to assist in their compliance with the Affordable Care Act. The Work Number . The Work Number is our key repository of employment and income data serving our Verification Services and Employer Services business units. We rely on payroll data received from tens of thousands of organizations to regularly update the database. The updates occur as employers and other data contributors transmit data electronically to Equifax from their payroll systems. Employers provide this data to us so that we can handle verification requests on behalf of each employer. We use this data to provide automated employment and income verification services to verifiers, who are lenders, employers/background screeners, and government agencies. The fees we charge for services in these two business units are generally on a per transaction basis. We have not experienced significant turnover in the employer contributors to the database because we generally do not charge them to add their employment data to The Work Number database and the verification service we offer relieves them of the administrative burden and expense of responding to third-party employment verification requests while providing them with the assurance that the process is automated and not subject to human interpretation. The Work Number database is approaching 380 million current and historic employment records at December 31, 2019. Workforce Solutions has established an income and employment verification service in Canada, known as Verification Exchange. Workforce Solutions is in the process of building a similar income and employment verification service business in Australia. At present, revenues from these services in Canada and Australia are insignificant. International The International operating segment includes our Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America and Canada business units. These business units offer products that are similar to those available in the USIS operating segment, but with variations by geographic region. In some jurisdictions, data sources tend to rely more heavily on government agencies than in the U.S. We also offer specialized services that help our customers better manage risk in their consumer portfolios. This operating segment s 7 products and services generate revenue in Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, India, Mexico, New Zealand, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Spain, the U.K. and Uruguay. We also maintain support operations in the Republic of Ireland, Chile, Costa Rica, and India. We offer consumer credit services in Russia through an investment in a joint venture, have investments in consumer and/or commercial credit information companies through joint ventures in Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates, and have an investment in a consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management in Asia Pacific, Europe, Canada and Latin America. Europe. Our Europe operation provides information solutions, fraud detection services, debt collection services and marketing products. Information solutions and fraud products are generated from information that we maintain and include credit reporting and scoring, asset information, risk management, identity management and authentication services and fraud detection and modeling services. These products are sold in the U.K. and Spain. Marketing products, which are similar to those offered in our Financial Marketing Services business unit in the U.S., are primarily available in the U.K. and, to a lesser extent, in Spain. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management in the U.K. and Spain. In the U.K., this includes a contract to provide these services to the U.K. government. Asia Pacific. Our Asia Pacific operation provides consumer and commercial information solutions products, marketing products, workforce solutions, and personal solutions products. We offer a full range of products, generated from credit records and other data, including credit reporting and scoring, decisioning technology, risk management, identity management, authentication and fraud detection services. Our consumer and commercial products are the primary source of revenue in each of the countries in which we operate and include credit reporting, decisioning tools and risk management services. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management. Additionally, we provide a variety of consumer and commercial marketing products generated from information databases, including business profile analysis, business prospect lists and database management. The countries in which we operate include Australia, New Zealand and India, as well as through joint ventures in Russia, Cambodia, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates. Latin America. Our Latin America operation provides consumer and commercial information solutions products, marketing products and personal solutions products. We offer a full range of products, generated from credit records that we maintain, including credit reporting and scoring, decisioning technology, risk management, identity management, authentication and fraud detection services. Our consumer products are the primary source of revenue in each of the countries in this region in which we operate. We also offer various commercial products, which include credit reporting, decisioning tools and risk management services, in the countries we serve. We also provide information, technology and services to support debt collections and recovery management. Additionally, we provide a variety of consumer and commercial marketing products generated from our credit information databases, including business profile analysis, business prospect lists and database management. The countries in this region in which we operate include Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay. We also have an investment in a consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil. Canada. Similar to the USIS business units, our Canada operation offers products derived from the credit information that we maintain about individual consumers and businesses. We offer many products in Canada, including credit reporting and scori