Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 32 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. (Reserved) 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 60 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 60 Item 9B. Other Information 60 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 61 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 61 Item 11. Executive Compensation 61 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 61 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 61 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 61 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 62 Table of Contents Safe Harbor Disclosure This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other U.S. federal securities laws. We intend these forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements in the federal securities laws. In some cases, these statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as may , will , should , could , anticipate , estimate , expect , plan , believe , predict , potential and intend . Forward-looking statements contained in this report include: the effects of catastrophic events on our financial statements; our losses from catastrophe exposure could exceed our projections; information regarding our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses or LAE; our failure to accurately assess underwriting risk and establish adequate premium rates; decreases in pricing for property and casualty reinsurance and insurance; our inability or failure to purchase reinsurance; our ability to maintain our financial strength ratings; the failure of our insured, intermediaries and reinsurers to satisfy their obligations to us; decline in our investment values and investment income due to exposure to financial markets conditions; the failure to maintain enough cash to meet near-term financial obligations; our ability to pay dividends, interest and principal, which is dependent on our ability to receive dividends, loan payments and other funds from our subsidiaries due to our holding company structure; reduced net income and capital levels due to foreign currency exchange losses; our sensitivity to unanticipated levels of inflation; the effects of measures taken by domestic or foreign governments on our business; our ability to retain our key executive officers and to attract or retain the executives and employees necessary to manage our business; the effect of cybersecurity risks, including technology breaches or failure, and regulatory and legislative developments related to cybersecurity on our business; our dependence on brokers and agents for business developments; material variation of analytical models used in decision making from actual results; the effects of business continuation risk on our operations; the effect on our business of the highly competitive nature of our industry, including the effects of new entrants to, competing products for and consolidation in the (re)insurance industry; an anti-takeover effect caused by insurance laws and provisions in the bye-laws of Group (as defined in Part I below); the difficulty investors in Group may have in protecting their interests compared to investors in a U.S. corporation; our failure to comply with insurance laws and regulations and other regulatory challenges; the ability of Bermuda Re (as defined in Part I below)to obtain licenses or admittance in additional jurisdictions to develop its business; the ability of Bermuda Re to arrange for security to back its reinsurance impacting its ability to write reinsurance; changes in international and U.S. tax laws; the effect on Group and/or Bermuda Re should it become subject to taxes in jurisdictions where not currently subject to taxation; and the ability of Everest Re, Holdings, and Holdings Ireland (each, as defined in Part I below), Everest Dublin Insurance Holdings Limited (Ireland), Bermuda Re and Everest International Reinsurance, Ltd. to pay dividends. Forward-looking statements only reflect our expectations and are not guarantees of performance. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual events or results may differ materially from our expectations. Important factors that could cause our actual events or results to be materially different from our expectations include those discussed under the caption ITEM 1A, Risk Factors . We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Table of Contents PART I Unless otherwise indicated, all financial data in this document have been prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). As used in this document, Group means Everest Group, Ltd.; Bermuda Re means Everest Reinsurance (Bermuda), Ltd.; Holdings Ireland means Everest Underwriting Group (Ireland) Limited; Ireland Re means Everest Reinsurance Company (Ireland), Designated Activity Company or dac ; Ireland Insurance means Everest Insurance (Ireland), dac; Holdings means Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc.; Everest Re means Everest Reinsurance Company and its subsidiaries (unless the context otherwise requires); and the Company , Everest , we , us , and our means Everest Group, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless noted otherwise, all tabular dollar amounts are in millions of United States ( U.S. ) dollars ( U.S. dollars or $ ). Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding. ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company. Everest is a Bermuda-based reinsurance and insurance organization. As part of the S P 500 Index, we are a leading financial services institution focused on diversifying our portfolio and geographic presence. Through our direct and indirect subsidiaries operating in the U.S. and internationally, we serve a diverse group of clients worldwide, providing what we believe are extensive product and distribution capabilities, a strong balance sheet, an innovative culture and access to world-class talent. At December 31, 2023, we had shareholders equity of $13.2 billion and total assets of $49.4 billion. Our Operations. The Company s principal business, conducted through its Reinsurance and Insurance operating segments, is the underwriting of reinsurance and insurance in the U.S., Bermuda and other international markets. Our global network of operations spans more than 100 countries across six continents. In 2023, the Company had gross written premiums of $16.6 billion with approximately 68.9% representing reinsurance and 31.1% representing insurance. The Company underwrites reinsurance both through brokers and directly with ceding companies, giving it the flexibility to pursue business based on the ceding company s preferred reinsurance purchasing method. The Company underwrites insurance principally through brokers, including for surplus lines, and general agent relationships. Group s active operating subsidiaries are each rated A+ ( Superior ) by A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ), a leading provider of insurer ratings that assigns financial strength ratings to insurance companies based on their ability to meet their obligations to policyholders. Following is a summary of the Company s principal operating subsidiaries: Bermuda Re, a Bermuda insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Group, is registered in Bermuda as a Class 4 insurer and long-term insurer and is authorized to write both reinsurance and insurance property and casualty. Bermuda Re s UK branch writes property and casualty reinsurance to the United Kingdom, China and European markets. As of December 31, 2023, Bermuda Re had shareholder s equity of $4.2 billion. Everest International Reinsurance, Ltd. ( Everest International ), a Bermuda insurance company and a direct subsidiary of G roup, is registered in Bermuda as a Class 4 insurer and is authorized to write property and casualty business. Everest International s Singapore branch writes property and casualty reinsurance to the Singapore market. A majority of Everest International s business is assumed reinsurance from its affiliates: Everest Re, Bermuda Re, Ireland Re and Ireland Insurance. As of December 31, 2023, Everest International had shareholder s equity of $1.4 billion. Ireland Re, an Ireland reinsurance company and an indirect subsidiary of Group, is licensed to write non-life reinsurance, both directly and through brokers, for the London and European markets through its Ireland office as well as through its Zurich branch. Ireland Insurance, an Ireland insurance company and an indirect subsidiary of Group, is licensed to write insurance for the European markets through its Ireland office as well as through its branches in the United 1 Table of Contents Kingdom, the Netherlands, Spain, France and Germany. In addition, Ireland Insurance is considered an approved/eligible alien surplus lines insurer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Lloyd's of London (Lloyd's) Syndicate 2786, a wholly-owned Everest syndicate supported by funds at Lloyd s provided by Everest Corporate Member Limited, was established in 2015 as a platform to facilitate the further expansion of Everest's international insurance operations. The syndicate is managed by a third-party managing agency. Everest Compa ia de Seguros Generales Chile S.A., a Chile based insurance company, is licensed to write insurance and reinsurance within Chile. Everest Insurance Company of Canada ( Everest Canada ), a Canadian insurance company and direct subsidiary of Holdings Ireland, is licensed to write property and casualty insurance in all Canadian provinces. Everest Reinsurance Company, a Delaware reinsurance company and a direct subsidiary of Holdings, is a licensed property and casualty insurer and/or reinsurer in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam and is authorized to conduct reinsurance business in Canada, Singapore and Brazil. Everest Reinsurance Company underwrites property and casualty reinsurance for insurance and reinsurance companies in the U.S. and international markets, through its U.S. offices as well as through its branches in Canada and Singapore. As of December 31, 2023, Everest Reinsurance Company had statutory surplus of $7.0 billion. Everest National Insurance Company ( Everest National ), a Delaware insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Reinsurance Company, is licensed in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and is authorized to write property and casualty insurance on an admitted basis in the jurisdictions in which it is licensed. The majority of Everest National s business is reinsured by its parent, Everest Reinsurance Company. Everest Indemnity Insurance Company ( Everest Indemnity ), a Delaware insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Reinsurance Company, writes excess and surplus lines insurance business in the U.S. on a non-admitted basis. Excess and surplus lines insurance is specialty property and liability coverage that an insurer not licensed to write insurance in a particular jurisdiction is permitted to provide to insureds when the specific specialty coverage is unavailable from admitted insurers. Everest Indemnity is a Delaware domestic surplus lines insurer and is eligible to write business on a non-admitted basis in all other U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The majority of Everest Indemnity s business is reinsured by its parent, Everest Reinsurance Company. Everest Security Insurance Company ( Everest Security ), a Delaware insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Reinsurance Company, is licensed to write property and casualty insurance on an admitted basis in Delaware, Georgia and Alabama. The majority of Everest Security s business is reinsured by its parent, Everest Reinsurance Company. Everest Premier Insurance Company ( Everest Premier ), a Delaware insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Reinsurance Company, is licensed to write property and casualty insurance in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The majority of Everest Premier s business is reinsured by its parent, Everest Reinsurance Company. Everest Denali Insurance Company ( Everest Denali ), a Delaware insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Reinsurance Company, is licensed to write property and casualty insurance in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The majority of Everest Denali s business is reinsured by its parent, Everest Reinsurance Company. Everest International Assurance, Ltd. ( Everest Assurance ), a Bermuda company and a direct subsidiary of Holdings is registered in Bermuda as a Class 3A general business insurer and as a Class C long-term insurer. Everest Assurance has made a one-time election under section 953(d) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code to be a U.S. income tax paying Controlled Foreign Corporation. By making this election, Everest Assurance is authorized to write life reinsurance and casualty reinsurance in both Bermuda and the U.S. In addition, Everest Assurance is considered an approved/eligible alien surplus lines insurer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. 2 Table of Contents Human Capital Management. Our colleagues worldwide are essential to our success, and we strive to attract and retain the highest caliber of talent to meet our business needs as well as the needs of our clients and customers. It is our goal to build skilled, talented, collaborative, inclusive teams and foster a sense of purpose and company culture rooted in diversity of thought and experiences. As of February 1, 2024, the Company employed 2,844 persons. Management believes that colleague engagement is strong. None of the Company s employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements, and the Company is not aware of any current efforts to enter into such agreements. Talent Attraction, Development, and Retention. Everest is proud to be home to top industry talent, and we make ongoing, strategic investments in our people. Our ability to attract, develop and retain a high caliber of professionals is critical to our continued growth and ability to execute on our strategic priorities. The continued development of all colleagues is core to who we are and how we maintain our competitive advantage as a global leader in risk management. We are proud to offer corporate mentoring programs, leadership development opportunities, and avenues for engagement with our external partner organizations. We provide opportunities for continued learning and talent development at all levels. Our colleagues are encouraged to take ownership of their development by using the tools that the Company has made available to them including industry training, technical upskilling, mentorships and personal development classes. Everest also actively manages succession planning across our organization and strives to provide growth and advancement opportunities to internal talent, where possible. Our leaders and colleagues engage in ongoing learning that supports both professional and personal development. Proactive recruitment of skilled, experienced, diverse teams is an important aspect of succession planning at both our Board of Directors (the Board ) level and throughout the organization. Our Human Resources and Senior Leadership Teams, Executive Committee, Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council ( DEI Council ) and Colleague Resource Groups ( CRGs ) collaborate to attract, retain and develop exceptional, diverse talent, fostering an inclusive workplace that embraces diversity in gender, ethnicity, age, geography, skill sets, experiences and perspectives. People power our success. We are committed to providing all colleagues with an engaging and supportive environment so they can develop personally and help drive our future growth. That is why Everest is pleased to offer various global initiatives such as leadership coffee hours and fireside chats; charitable community outreach events and volunteer opportunities; networking events; employee recognition awards; and, thought leadership topics with senior leaders. By offering a meaningful and engaging colleague experience, we are focused on inspiring our global teams to underwrite opportunity in everything that they do. Culture. Everest s Colleague Value Proposition Opportunity through Unity includes the building blocks of the Company s culture: our mission, purpose, and values, as well as a newly defined set of Colleague Behaviors that speak to how we operate as One Everest, regardless of location, level, or function. Our Values are the guiding principles that inform our decisions, actions and behaviors. They are an expression of our culture and an integral part of how we work: Talent. Thoughtful Assumption of Risk. Execution. Efficiency. Humility. Leadership. Collaboration. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. Our Colleague Behaviors define how we operate and interact with each other no matter our location, level or function: Respect Everyone. Pursue Better. Lead by Example. Own our Outcomes. Win Together. In 2023, the Company began embedding these new behaviors within colleague programs and practices globally. We are taking a systematic approach to integrating them into everything we do, from our talent acquisition and onboarding programs to our performance and compensation plans, recognition initiatives and general employment policies. 3 Table of Contents Diversity and Inclusion. People are Everest s greatest asset, and the quality of our teams has been enhanced through the wide range of backgrounds, perspectives and interests our colleagues bring to our community. At Everest, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ( DEI ) expresses our commitment to non-discriminatory access to opportunity, equity in our dealings and cultural inclusivity, and represents a cultural and business imperative that we promote not only within our workplace but also throughout the global communities in which we operate. Our Board is committed to advancing diversity within its structure as well as emphasizing its importance in our senior executive leadership. We believe that diversity in gender, ethnicity, age, geography, skill sets, experiences and perspectives enhances our governance, strategy, corporate responsibility, human rights and risk management. Everest has a global DEI strategic framework and focus areas that aligns with our corporate global DEI efforts and initiatives. We have four pillars that provide the foundation for our strategic framework as described below. 1. Alignment Accountability: Our integrated global DEI efforts align with our corporate strategy, cultural values and colleague behaviors. 2. Colleague-Centered: Our colleagues are the center of the global programs, processes and partnerships we create, and we value and respect their diverse experiences and perspectives. 3. Culture Engagement: Our workplace culture of deep colleague engagement thrives because of our efforts to advance inclusion, allyship and belonging. 4. Opportunity Growth: Our global efforts and ways to underwrite opportunity for all stakeholders are oriented toward growth, and we have the agility to pivot as necessary to support our strategic priorities. As part of our global DEI efforts, Everest has the DEI Council, which functions globally across our North America and international operations. The DEI Council s mission is to help foster an environment that attracts, retains and develops the best talent; values the diversity of people, their life experiences and perspectives; and serves as a conduit to senior management to promote measurable company-wide engagement on inclusivity. The Council is an important voice and key counselor and supports our leaders in their role to further cultivate DEI at Everest through open dialogue and discussion, training, and best practices. The Council has also been instrumental in supporting our CRGs as they raise awareness and ensure that a diverse and representative group of voices is heard throughout the Company. We look to seize opportunities to celebrate our diversity and lift one another up. Our global CRGs, as part of our Council, connect regularly through networking events, professional development opportunities and sharing cultural traditions, driving greater awareness and collaboration across offices worldwide. Participation in our CRGs is open to everyone, regardless of background, to enhance career and personal development, exchange ideas and share cultural experiences and backgrounds to contribute to Everest s vision and values. As of December 31, 2023, the Company sponsors nine CRGs. Business and Underwriting Strategy. In 2023, the Company changed its name to Everest Group, Ltd. and started trading under a new ticker symbol (NYSE: EG). Everest s new name and stock ticker reflect the evolution of our value proposition, built on five decades of reinsurance leadership and an expanding presence in the global primary insurance market. The Company writes business on a worldwide basis for many different customers and lines of business, thereby obtaining a broad spread of risk. The Company is not substantially dependent on any single customer, small group of customers, line of business or geographic area. For the year ended December 31, 2023, no single customer (ceding company or insured) generated more than 3.8% of the Company s gross written premiums. The Company believes that a reduction of business from any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on its future financial condition or results of operations. Approximately 62.4%, 30.7% and 6.9% of the Company s 2023 gross written premiums were written in the broker reinsurance market, the insurance business and the direct reinsurance market, respectively. 4 Table of Contents The broker reinsurance market consists of several substantial national and international brokers and a number of smaller specialized brokers. Brokers do not have the authority to bind the Company with respect to reinsurance agreements, nor does the Company commit in advance to accept any portion of a broker s submitted business. Reinsurance business from any ceding company, whether new or renewal is subject to acceptance by the Company. Brokerage fees are generally paid by reinsurers. The Reinsurance segment s ten largest brokers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 53.7% of gross written premiums in 2023. The broker with the largest share of the company s business, Marsh and McLennan, accounted for approximately 20.4% of gross written premiums. The broker with the next-largest share, Aon, accounted for approximately 16.1% of gross written premiums. The Company believes that a reduction of business assumed from any one broker would not have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company s insurance business mainly writes commercial property and casualty on an admitted and non-admitted basis. The business is writ ten through wholesale and retail brokers, surplus lines brokers and through program administrators. In 2023, no program administrator accounted for more than 10.0% of the Insurance segment s gross written premium in total . The direct reinsurance market is an important distribution channel for reinsurance business written by the Company. Direct placement of reinsurance enables the Company to access clients who prefer to place their reinsurance directly with reinsurers based upon the reinsurer s in-depth understanding of the ceding company s needs. It is our long-standing client and broker relationships that help us continue to grow and maintain our global leadership position. The Company continually evaluates each business relationship, including within its distribution channel bearing underwriting expertise and experience, performs analyses to evaluate financial security, monitors performance and adjusts underwriting decisions accordingly. The Company s business strategy is to sustain its leadership position within targeted reinsurance and insurance markets and provide effective management throughout the property and casualty underwriting cycle, thereby achieving an attractive return for its shareholders. The Company s underwriting strategies seek to capitalize on what we believe are our financial strength and capacity, global franchise, stable and experienced management team, diversified product and distribution offerings, underwriting expertise and disciplined approach, efficient and low-cost operating structure and effective enterprise risk management practices. The Company s underwriting strategies emphasize disciplined underwriting, prioritizing underwriting profitability over premium volume, and flexibility to adjust and respond to changing market conditions. Key elements of these strategies, as applicable to the Reinsurance segment, include careful risk selection, appropriate pricing through strict underwriting discipline and adjustments to the Company s business mix as market conditions change. We focus on (re)insuring companies that effectively manage their own underwriting cycle through proper analysis and appropriate pricing of underlying risks and whose underwriting guidelines and performance are compatible with their and the Company s objectives. Key elements of the Company s underwriting strategies, as applicable to the Insurance segment, include careful expansion on what we believe to be the Company s existing strengths in the primary insurance market, including its broad underwriting expertise, global presence, strong financial ratings and substantial capital, and facilitating adjustments to its mix of business by geographic region, line of business and type of coverage. These strategies allow Everest to fully participate in market opportunities that provide the greatest potential for underwriting profitability. The Company s insurance and reinsurance operations allow the Company to execute its strategies by providing access to the global business markets. The Company carefully monitors its mix of business across all operations to seek to avoid unacceptable geographic or other risk concentrations. Segments Overview. The Company operates through two operating segments, Reinsurance and Insurance, which are managed as autonomous units, and key strategic decisions are based on the aggregate operating results and projections for the two business segments. During the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company revised the classification and presentation of certain products related to its accident and health business within the segment groupings. These products have been realigned from within the Reinsurance segment to the Insurance segment to appropriately reflect how the business segments are now managed due to changes in management beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023. These changes have been reflected retrospectively. The Reinsurance segment writes worldwide property and casualty reinsurance and specialty lines of business, on both a treaty and facultative basis, through reinsurance brokers, as well as directly with ceding companies. Business is written in 5 Table of Contents the United States, Bermuda, and Ireland offices, as well as through branches in Canada, Singapore, the United Kingdom ( UK ) and Switzerland. The Insurance segment writes property and casualty insurance directly and through brokers, including for surplus lines, and general agents within the United States, Bermuda, Canada, Europe, Singapore and South America through its offices in the United States, Canada, Chile, Singapore, UK, Ireland and branches in the UK, the Netherlands, France, Germany and Spain. The two segments are managed independently but conform with corporate guidelines with respect to pricing, risk management, control of aggregate catastrophe exposures, capital, investments and support operations. Management generally monitors and evaluates the financial performance of the two operating segments based upon their underwriting results. Underwriting results include earned premium less losses and loss adjustment expenses ( LAE ) incurred, commission and brokerage expenses and other underwriting expenses. We measure our underwriting results using ratios, in particular, loss, commission and brokerage and other underwriting expense ratios, which, respectively, divide incurred losses, commissions and brokerage and other underwriting expenses by premiums earned. For selected financial information regarding these segments, see ITEM 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Segment Results . Reinsurance Segment . Overview Reinsurance is an arrangement in which an (re)insurance company, the reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurance or reinsurance company, the ceding company, against all or a portion of the risks underwritten by the ceding company under one or more insurance and/or reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance can provide a ceding company with several benefits, including a reduction in its net liability on individual risks or classes of risks, catastrophe protection from large and/or multiple losses 