ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS 39 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 39 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 40 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 40 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 41 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 43 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 44 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 68 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 70 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 142 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 142 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 145 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 145 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 145 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 145 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 146 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 146 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 147 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 151 SIGNATURES 158 - 1 - References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the terms we, our, us, Anthem or the Company refer to Anthem, Inc., an Indiana corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to the term states include the District of Columbia, unless the context otherwise requires. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect our views about future events and financial performance and are generally not historical facts. Words such as expect, feel, believe, will, may, should, anticipate, intend, estimate, project, forecast, plan and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to: financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various risks and other disclosures discussed in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors that affect our business. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: trends in healthcare costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rates, including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates; the impact of federal and state regulation, including ongoing changes in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, and the ultimate outcome of legal challenges to the ACA; our ability to contract with providers on cost-effective and competitive terms; competitive pressures and our ability to adapt to changes in the industry and develop and implement strategic growth opportunities; reduced enrollment; unauthorized disclosure of member or employee sensitive or confidential information, including the impact and outcome of any investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related thereto; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon; our ability to maintain and achieve improvement in Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, Star ratings and other quality scores and funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation therein; a negative change in our healthcare product mix; costs and other liabilities associated with litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews; the ultimate outcome of litigation between Cigna Corporation, or Cigna, and us related to the merger agreement between the parties and the potential for such litigation to cause us to incur substantial additional costs, including potential settlement and judgment costs; risks and uncertainties related to our pharmacy benefit management, or PBM, business, including non-compliance by any party with the PBM services agreements between us and each of Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, and CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, as well as agreements governing the transition of pharmacy benefit management services provided to us from Express Scripts to CVS Health Corporation; medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to healthcare services and PBM services provided by our subsidiaries; general risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends from our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital; our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock due to the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other considerations; the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; the effects of any negative publicity related to the health benefits industry in general or us in particular; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems; events that may negatively affect our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; large scale medical emergencies, such as future public health epidemics and catastrophes; changes in economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our liquidity and investment portfolios; the impact of international laws and regulations; changes in U.S. tax laws; intense competition to attract and retain employees; and various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations. - 2 - PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. General We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving approximately 41 million medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2019 . We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York) , Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees as well as other strategic partners. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in numerous states across the country as Aim Specialty Health, Amerigroup, Aspire Health, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and/or UniCare. Also, in the second quarter of 2019, we began providing pharmacy benefits management, or PBM, services through our IngenioRx subsidiary. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through our subsidiaries. In the second quarter of 2019, we began using our new pharmacy benefits manager called IngenioRx to market and sell a PBM product to fully-insured and self-funded Anthem health plan customers throughout the country, as well as to customers outside of the health plans we own. This comprehensive product portfolio includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network, prescription drug database, member services and mail order capabilities. In July 2019, we announced our first contract win with a third-party health insurer, Blue Cross of Idaho, and we began providing PBM services under that contract beginning on January 1, 2020. Also beginning in the second quarter of 2019, we began delegating certain PBM administrative functions, such as claims processing and prescription fulfillment, to CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C., or CVS Health, which is a subsidiary of CVS Health Corporation, pursuant to a five-year agreement with CVS Health, or the CVS PBM Agreement. We intend to retain the responsibilities for IngenioRx s clinical and formulary strategy and development, member and employer experiences, operations, sales, marketing, account management and retail network strategy. From December 2009 through December 2019, we delegated certain PBM functions and administrative services to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, pursuant our PBM agreement with Express Scripts, or the ESI PBM Agreement. In January 2019, we exercised our contractual right to terminate the ESI PBM Agreement earlier than the original expiration date of December 31, 2019, due to the acquisition of Express Scripts by Cigna Corporation, or Cigna. We began transitioning existing members from Express Scripts to IngenioRx in the second quarter of 2019, and completed the transition of all of our members on January 1, 2020. Prior to the termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, Express Scripts managed the network of pharmacy providers, operated mail order pharmacies and processed prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sold and supported the product for our members, made formulary decisions, sold drug benefit design strategy and provided front line member support. We expect IngenioRx to provide our members with more cost-effective solutions and improve our ability to integrate pharmacy benefits within our medical and specialty platform. Notwithstanding our termination of the ESI PBM Agreement, the litigation between us and Express Scripts regarding the ESI PBM Agreement continues. In March 2016, we filed a lawsuit against Express Scripts seeking to recover damages for pharmacy pricing that is higher than competitive benchmark pricing and damages related to operational breaches. Express Scripts filed an answer to the lawsuit disputing our contractual claims and alleging various defenses and counterclaims. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Express Scripts, Inc. Pharmacy Benefit Management Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On June 6, 2019, we announced our entrance into an agreement to acquire Beacon Health Options, Inc., or Beacon, the largest independently held behavioral health organization in the country. Beacon serves approximately 40 million individuals across all 50 states. This acquisition aligns with our strategy to diversify into health services and deliver both integrated solutions and care delivery models that personalize care for people with complex and chronic conditions. The acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2020 and is subject to standard closing conditions and customary approvals. - 3 - In May 2017, we announced that we were terminating the Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Cigna Merger Agreement, between us and Cigna. Both we and Cigna have commenced litigation against the other seeking various actions and damages, including Cigna s damage claim for a $1.850 billion termination fee pursuant to the terms of the Cigna Merger Agreement. For additional information about the ongoing litigation related to the Cigna Merger Agreement, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation and Regulatory Proceedings - Cigna Corporation Merger Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. At Anthem, we believe in working together to achieve our mission of improving lives and communities, simplifying healthcare and expecting more. As we seek to accomplish these goals through a collaborative focus on execution and delivering for those we serve, our vision is to be the most innovative, valuable and inclusive health partner. We focus on ensuring quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse customers, we are guided by the following values: Leadership Redefine what is possible Community Committed, connected, invested Integrity Do the right thing, with a spirit of excellence Agility Delivery today, transform tomorrow Diversity Open your hearts and minds By striving to live our values each day and in every interaction, we are committed to simplifying as well as radically reinventing the healthcare experience for all Americans. We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to Large Group, Small Group, Individual, Medicaid and Medicare markets. Our managed care plans include: Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs; Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs; Point-of-Service, or POS, plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including Consumer-Driven Health Plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as PBM services, dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal healthcare. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with our Federal Health Products Services business, or FHPS, which administers the Federal Employees Health Benefits, or FEHB, Program. An ongoing focus on healthcare costs by employers, the government and consumers has continued to drive the growth of alternatives to traditional indemnity health insurance. HMO, PPO and hybrid plans are among the various forms of managed care products that have been developed. Through these types of products, insurers attempt to contain the cost of healthcare by negotiating contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers to deliver high-quality healthcare to members at favorable rates. These products usually feature medical management and other quality and cost optimization measures such as pre-admission review and approval for certain non-emergency services, pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures, network credentialing to determine that network physicians and hospitals have the required certifications and expertise, and various levels of care management programs to help members better understand and navigate the healthcare system. In addition, providers may have incentives to achieve certain quality measures, may share medical cost risk or may have other incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. Also, certain plans offer members incentives for healthy behaviors, such as smoking cessation and weight management. Members are charged periodic, prepaid premiums and generally pay co-payments, coinsurance and/or deductibles when they receive services. While the distinctions between the various types of plans have lessened over recent years, PPO, POS and CDHP products generally provide reduced benefits for out-of-network services, while traditional HMO products generally provide little to no reimbursement for non-emergency out-of-network utilization, but often offer more generous benefit coverage. An HMO plan may also require members to select one of the network primary care physicians, or PCPs, to coordinate their care and approve any specialist or other services. Economic factors, greater consumer and employer sophistication and accountability have resulted in an increased demand for choice in both product/benefit designs and provider network configurations. As a result, we continue to offer our broad access PPO networks with multiple benefit designs, but are also focused on leveraging our provider collaboration - 4 - initiatives with our Accountable Care Organization, or ACO, partnerships to develop both narrow and tiered network offerings. This array of network and product configurations allows both the employer and the employee to design and select the combination of benefit designs (e.g., traditional PPOs, high deductibles, health reimbursement accounts, health savings accounts, PCP based products, tiered copays) and networks (e.g., broad, narrow, tiered, closed or exclusive provider, and open) that optimize choice, quality and price at the consumer, employer and market level. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our states to respond to these market preferences. For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume the risk for the cost of covered healthcare services. Under self-funded products, we charge a fee for services and the employer or plan sponsor funds or reimburses us for the healthcare costs. In addition, we charge a premium to underwrite stop loss insurance for Local Group and National Account employers that maintain self-funded health plans. Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard , Medicare, Medicaid and FEHB. BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded Amerigroup, Freedom Health, HealthSun, Optimum HealthCare and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business. Our products are generally developed and marketed with an emphasis on the differing needs of our customers. In particular, our product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, as well as the unique needs of educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and underserved markets. Overall, we seek to establish pricing and product designs to provide value for our customers while achieving an appropriate level of profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with the competitive objective to grow market share. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on these distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our customers unique needs. Further, IngenioRx was built to simplify pharmacy care and focus on the whole person, and we expect it will make it easier for our customers to achieve the best possible health outcomes at the lowest possible total cost of care. We market our Individual, Medicare and certain Local Group products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents, brokers and retail partnerships. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer who work with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. In the Individual and Small Group markets, we offer on-exchange products through state- or federally-facilitated marketplaces, referred to as public exchanges, and off-exchange products. Federal subsidies are available for certain members, subject to income and family size, who purchase public exchange products. Being a licensee of the BCBS association of companies, of which there were 36 independent primary licensees including us as of December 31, 2019 , provides significant market value, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. For example, each BCBS member company is able to utilize other BCBS licensees substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard and is a source of revenue when we provide member services in the states where we are the BCBS licensee to individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us. This program also provides a national provider network for our members when they travel to other states. For additional information describing each of our customer types, detailed marketing efforts and changes in medical membership over the last three years, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our results of operations depend in large part on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage healthcare costs through effective contracting with providers of care to our members, product pricing, medical management and health and wellness programs, including service coordination and case management for addressing complex and specialized health care needs, innovative product design and our ability to maintain or achieve improvement in our CMS Star ratings. CMS Star ratings affect Medicare Advantage plan reimbursements as well as our eligibility to earn quality-based bonus payments for those plans. See Regulation herein for additional information on our CMS Star ratings. - 5 - Advances in medical technology, increases in specialty drug costs, increases in hospital expenditures and other provider costs, the aging of the population and other demographic characteristics continue to contribute to rising healthcare costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our market share and high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability. The future results of our operations will also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. The continuing growth in our government-sponsored business exposes us to increased regulatory oversight. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended, or collectively, the ACA, has changed and may continue to make broad-based changes to the U.S. healthcare system . The ACA presented us with new growth opportunities, but also introduced new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties, and required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. Changes to our business environment are likely to continue as elected officials at the national and state levels continue to enact, and both elected officials and candidates for election continue to propose, significant modifications to existing laws and regulations, including changes to taxes and fees. In addition, the legal challenges regarding the ACA, including a federal district court decision invalidating the ACA, or the 2018 ACA Decision , which judgment has been stayed pending appeal , continue to contribute to this uncertainty. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the ACA as additional guidance is made available and any further developments or judicial rulings occur. For additional discussion, see Regulation herein and Part I,