ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 38 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 38 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 39 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 39 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 39 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 40 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 42 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 42 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 64 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 66 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 132 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 132 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 135 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 135 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 135 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 135 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 135 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 136 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 136 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 137 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 141 SIGNATURES 148 -1- References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the terms we, our, us, Elevance Health or the Company refer to Elevance Health, Inc., an Indiana corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to the term states include the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, unless the context otherwise requires. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect our views about future events and financial performance and are generally not historical facts. Words such as expect, feel, believe, will, may, should, anticipate, intend, estimate, project, forecast, plan and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to: financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various risks and other disclosures discussed in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors that affect our business. Except to the extent required by law, we do not update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: trends in healthcare costs and utilization rates; reduced enrollment; our ability to secure and implement sufficient premium rates; the impact of large scale medical emergencies, such as public health epidemics and pandemics, including COVID-19, and other catastrophes; the impact of new or changes in existing federal, state and international laws or regulations, including laws and regulations impacting healthcare, insurance, pharmacy services and other diversified products and services, or their enforcement or application; the impact of cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents or breaches or our failure to comply with any privacy, data or security laws or regulations, including any investigations, claims or litigation related thereto; information technology disruptions; changes in economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our liquidity and investment portfolios; competitive pressures and our ability to adapt to changes in the industry and develop and implement strategic growth opportunities; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon; our ability to maintain and achieve improvement in Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Star ratings and other quality scores and funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation therein; a negative change in our healthcare product mix; costs and other liabilities associated with litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews; our ability to contract with providers on cost-effective and competitive terms; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems; risks associated with providing healthcare, pharmacy and other diversified products and services, including medical malpractice or professional liability claims and non-compliance by any party with the pharmacy services agreement between us and CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C.; risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends from our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital; our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock due to the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other considerations; the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness and the risk that increased interest rates or market volatility could impact our access to or further increase the cost of financing; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; the effects of any negative publicity related to the health benefits industry in general or us in particular; events that may negatively affect our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; intense competition to attract and retain employees; risks associated with our international operations; and various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations. -2- PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. General Elevance Health and its subsidiaries, referred to throughout this document as we, us, our, the Company or Elevance Health, is a leading health company bringing together the concepts of elevate and advance, in order to exemplify and follow our bold purpose of improving the health of humanity. We serve people across their entire health journey to better address their full range of needs with an integrated whole-health approach. Through our broad view, we aim to meaningfully improve the health of the people and communities we serve. We strive to deliver on our mission by maximizing the power of partnerships, innovating to fuel growth and health equity, and maintaining a high-performance culture. Our strategy is to be a lifetime trusted health partner through the following four core focus areas: Whole Health Partner to address physical, behavioral and social needs to improve health, affordability, quality, equity, and access for individuals and communities. Exceptional Experiences Put the consumers we serve at the center of all that we do, personalizing engagement to meet consumers where they are and optimize health outcomes across individuals and populations. Care Provider Enablement Be the easiest payer to work with by supporting care provider partners with data, insights, and tools they need to deliver exceptional care for our consumers. Digital Platform Use digital technologies such as AI to transform the way we operate our business and interact with consumers by driving improvements in efficiency and experiences and converting data into actionable insights. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse customers, we are guided by the following values: Community We put people first Diversity We value our differences Integrity We build trust Agility We embrace change Leadership We lead by example We are one of the largest health insurers in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving approximately 47 million medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2023. We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care risk-based plans to Individual, Employer Group, Medicaid and Medicare markets. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to fee-based customers, including claims processing, stop loss insurance, provider network access, medical management, care management, wellness programs, actuarial services and other administrative services. We provide services to the federal government in connection with our Federal Health Products Services business, which administers the Federal Employees Health Benefits ( FEHB ) Program. We provide an array of specialty services both to customers of our subsidiary health plans and also to unaffiliated health plans, including pharmacy services, dental, vision, life, disability and supplemental health insurance benefits, as well as integrated health services. We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ), an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield ( BCBS ) licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross and Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees, as well as other strategic partners. In addition, we serve members in numerous states as Amerigroup, Freedom Health, HealthSun, MMM, Optimum Healthcare, Simply Healthcare and/or Wellpoint. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico through our subsidiaries. Through various subsidiaries, we also offer pharmacy services through our CarelonRx business, and other healthcare related services as Carelon Insights, Carelon Health, Carelon Behavioral Health and CareMore. -3- As we announced in 2022, we are organizing our brand portfolio into the following core go-to-market brands: Anthem Blue Cross/Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield represents our existing Anthem-branded and affiliated Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensed plans; Wellpoint we are uniting select non-BCBSA licensed Medicare, Medicaid and commercial plans under the Wellpoint name; and Carelon this brand brings together our healthcare related services and capabilities, including our CarelonRx and Carelon Services businesses, under a single brand name. Our branding strategy reflects the evolution of our business from a traditional health insurance company to a lifetime, trusted health partner. Given this evolution, we reviewed and modified how we manage our business, monitor our performance and allocate resources, and made changes to our reportable segments beginning in the first quarter of 2023. We now report our results of operations in the following four reportable segments: Health Benefits (aggregates our previously reported Commercial Specialty Business and Government Business segments), CarelonRx, Carelon Services (previously included in our Other segment) and Corporate Other (our businesses that do not individually meet the quantitative thresholds for an operating segment, as well as corporate expenses not allocated to our other reportable segments). During the fourth quarter of 2023, we moved our Carelon Global Solutions international businesses from the Corporate Other reportable segment to the Carelon Services reportable segment. All prior period reportable segment information has been reclassified for comparability to conform to the current presentation. For additional discussion, see Reportable Segments below in this Business section and Note 1, Organization, and Note 20, Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe healthcare is local and that we have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer needs with regard to any product customers are enrolled in with us. Further, we believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based and affordable products; distinctive service; simplified transactions; and better access to information for quality care. Our local presence, combined with our national expertise, has created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for clinical quality and excellence. We feel that our commitment to health improvement and care management provides added value to customers and healthcare professionals. Ultimately, we believe that practical and sustainable improvements in healthcare must focus on improving healthcare quality while managing costs for total affordability. We have implemented initiatives driving payment innovation and partnered with providers to lower cost and improve the quality of healthcare for our members, and we continue to develop new and innovative ways to effectively manage risk and engage our members. Further, we continue to expand our financial arrangements with providers to implement payment models that advance value-based care. We believe focusing on quality of care rather than volume of care is the foundation for improving patient outcomes. Our value-based payment model supports patient-centered care by improving collaboration between providers and health partners and delivering to our patients the right care, at the right time, in the right place. In addition, we are focused on achieving efficiencies from our national scale while optimizing service performance for our customers. Finally, we expect to continue to rationalize our portfolio of businesses and products and align our investments to optimize our core businesses, invest in high-growth opportunities, and accelerate capabilities and services. Impact on Our Results of Operations Our results of operations depend in large part on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage healthcare costs through effective contracting with providers of care to our members, product pricing, medical management and health and wellness programs, including service coordination and case management for addressing complex and specialized healthcare needs, innovative product design and our ability to maintain or achieve improvement in our Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) Star ratings. CMS Star ratings affect Medicare Advantage plan reimbursements as well as our eligibility to earn quality-based bonus payments for those plans. See Regulation below in this Business section for additional information on our CMS Star ratings. For additional information on our networks and provider relations, product pricing and healthcare cost management programs, see Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products, Networks and Provider Relations, Medical Management Programs, Care Management and Wellness Products and Programs and Healthcare Quality Initiatives below in this Business section. -4- Advances in medical technology, including new specialty drugs, the aging population and other demographic characteristics continue to contribute to rising healthcare costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, health-outcomes based initiatives and health quality-based financial incentives. We believe our market position and high business retention rates will enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage operating expenses continues to be a driver of our overall profitability. Our future results of operations will be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. Changes to our business environment will continue as elected officials at the national and state levels enact, and both elected officials and candidates for election propose, modifications to existing laws and regulations, including changes to taxes and fees. For additional discussion, see Regulation below in this Business section and Part I,