ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS 38 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 38 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 38 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 38 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 39 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 40 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 41 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 66 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 68 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 138 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 138 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 141 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 141 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 141 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 141 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 141 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 142 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 142 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 143 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 147 SIGNATURES 154 -1- References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the terms we, our, us, Anthem or the Company refer to Anthem, Inc., an Indiana corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to the term states include the District of Columbia, unless the context otherwise requires. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements reflect our views about future events and financial performance and are generally not historical facts. Words such as expect, feel, believe, will, may, should, anticipate, intend, estimate, project, forecast, plan and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to: financial projections and estimates and their underlying assumptions; statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future operations, products and services; and statements regarding future performance. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements that speak only as of the date hereof. You are also urged to carefully review and consider the various risks and other disclosures discussed in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors that affect our business. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake any obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the impact of large scale medical emergencies, such as public health epidemics and pandemics, including COVID-19, and catastrophes; trends in healthcare costs and utilization rates; our ability to secure sufficient premium rates, including regulatory approval for and implementation of such rates; the impact of federal, state and international law and regulation, including ongoing changes in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, as amended; changes in economic and market conditions, as well as regulations that may negatively affect our liquidity and investment portfolios; our ability to contract with providers on cost-effective and competitive terms; competitive pressures and our ability to adapt to changes in the industry and develop and implement strategic growth opportunities; reduced enrollment; the impact of a cyber-attack or other cyber security breach resulting in unauthorized disclosure of member or employee sensitive or confidential information, including the impact and outcome of any investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related thereto; risks and uncertainties regarding Medicare and Medicaid programs, including those related to non-compliance with the complex regulations imposed thereon; our ability to maintain and achieve improvement in Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Star ratings and other quality scores and funding risks with respect to revenue received from participation therein; a negative change in our healthcare product mix; costs and other liabilities associated with litigation, government investigations, audits or reviews; risks and uncertainties related to our pharmacy benefit management ( PBM ) business, including non-compliance by any party with the PBM services agreement between us and CaremarkPCS Health, L.L.C.; medical malpractice or professional liability claims or other risks related to healthcare and PBM services provided by our subsidiaries; general risks associated with mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances; changes in tax laws; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and other intangible assets; possible restrictions in the payment of dividends from our subsidiaries and increases in required minimum levels of capital; our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock due to the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other considerations; the potential negative effect from our substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness; a downgrade in our financial strength ratings; the effects of any negative publicity related to the health benefits industry in general or us in particular; failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems; events that may negatively affect our licenses with the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association; intense competition to attract and retain employees; risks associated with our international operations; and various laws and provisions in our governing documents that may prevent or discourage takeovers and business combinations. -2- PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. General At Anthem, our purpose to improve the health of humanity is central to who we are. It inspires all we do and is the driving force behind our unique approach to health. We know to meaningfully improve health we must take a broader view. That is why our foundational approach looks at whole health and its most critical drivers: social, behavioral and physical. We believe in working together to achieve our goals of improving lives and communities, simplifying healthcare and expecting more. We strive to accomplish these goals through a collaborative focus on execution and delivering for those we serve in order to become a lifetime, trusted health partner. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse customers, we are guided by the following values: Leadership Redefine what is possible Community Committed, connected, invested Integrity Do the right thing, with a spirit of excellence Agility Delivery today, transform tomorrow Diversity Open your hearts and minds In pursuing our strategy and becoming a lifetime, trusted health partner, we intend to transform healthcare by taking a whole health approach and providing trusted and caring solutions, delivering quality products and services that give customers access to the care they need and removing barriers to health. We are one of the largest health benefits companies in the United States in terms of medical membership, serving greater than 45 million medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2021. We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care risk-based plans to Individual, Group, Medicaid and Medicare markets. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to fee-based customers, including claims processing, stop loss insurance, provider network access, medical management, care management and wellness programs, actuarial services and other administrative services. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with our Federal Health Products Services business, which administers the Federal Employees Health Benefits ( FEHB ) Program. We provide an array of specialty services both to our subsidiary health plans and also unaffiliated health plans, including pharmacy benefit management ( PBM ) services and dental, vision, life, disability and supplemental health insurance benefits, as well as integrated health services. We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association ( BCBSA ), an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield ( BCBS ) licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas, we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield or Empire Blue Cross. We also conduct business through arrangements with other BCBS licensees as well as other strategic partners. Through our subsidiaries, we also serve customers in numerous states and Puerto Rico as AIM Specialty Health, Amerigroup, Aspire Health, Beacon, CareMore, Freedom Health, HealthLink, HealthSun, MMM, Optimum HealthCare, Simply Healthcare, and/or UniCare. PBM services are offered through our IngenioRx, Inc. ( IngenioRx ) subsidiary. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico through our subsidiaries. We believe healthcare is local and that we have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer needs with regard to any product they are enrolled in with us. Further, we believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based and affordable products; distinctive service; simplified transactions; and better access to information for quality care. Our local presence, combined with our national expertise, has created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for clinical quality and excellence. We feel that our commitment to health improvement and care management provides added value to customers and healthcare professionals. Ultimately, we believe that practical and sustainable improvements in healthcare must focus on improving healthcare quality while managing -3- costs for total affordability. We have implemented initiatives driving payment innovation and partnered with providers to lower cost and improve the quality of healthcare for our members, and we continue to develop new and innovative ways to effectively manage risk and engage our members. Further, we are expanding our financial arrangements with providers to include payment models that encourage value-based care. We believe focusing on quality of care rather than volume of care is the foundation for improving patient outcomes. Our value-based payment model supports patient-centered care by improving collaboration between providers and health partners and delivering to our patients the right care, at the right time, in the right place. In addition, we are focused on achieving efficiencies from our national scale while optimizing service performance for our customers. Finally, we expect to continue to rationalize our portfolio of businesses and products and align our investments to capitalize on new opportunities to drive growth in our existing markets and expand into new markets in the future. Impact on Our Results of Operations Our results of operations depend in large part on our ability to accurately predict and effectively manage healthcare costs through effective contracting with providers of care to our members, product pricing, medical management and health and wellness programs, including service coordination and case management for addressing complex and specialized healthcare needs, innovative product design and our ability to maintain or achieve improvement in our Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) Star ratings. CMS Star ratings affect Medicare Advantage plan reimbursements as well as our eligibility to earn quality-based bonus payments for those plans. See Regulation below in this Business section for additional information on our CMS Star ratings. For additional information on our networks and provider relations, product pricing and healthcare cost management programs, see Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products, Networks and Provider Relations, Medical Management Programs, Care Management and Wellness Products and Programs and Healthcare Quality Initiatives below in this Business section. Advances in medical technology, increases in specialty drug costs, increases in hospital expenditures and other provider costs, the aging of the population, other demographic characteristics and the COVID-19 pandemic continue to contribute to rising healthcare costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. We believe our market position and high business retention rates will enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability. The future results of our operations will also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. Changes to our business environment will continue as elected officials at the national and state levels enact, and both elected officials and candidates for election propose, modifications to existing laws and regulations, including changes to taxes and fees. For additional discussion, see Regulation below in this Business section and Part I,