Item 1. Business 1 General 1 Operations 2 Competition 5 Human Capital 5 Available Information 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 Executive Officers of the Registrant 20 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 Item 6. [Reserved] 21 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B. Other Information 91 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 92 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 92 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Table of Contents [This Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They generally contain words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, may, can, could, might, variations of such wording and other words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements in this report include discussions of our future operating or financial performance and other forward-looking commentary regarding aspects of our business, including market share growth, gross profit, remaining performance obligations, project mix, projects with varying profit margins, selling, general and administrative expenses, and trends in our business, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances, such as the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Each forward-looking statement included in this report is subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified below in the Risk Factors section, the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section, and other sections of this report. Such risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those that might be anticipated from, or projected or implied by, our forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report speak only as of the filing date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) should be consulted. We caution investors not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, due to their inherent uncertainty. Table of Contents [This Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS References to the Company, EMCOR, we, us, our and similar words refer to EMCOR Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Overview We are one of the largest specialty contractors in the United States and a leading provider of electrical and mechanical construction and facilities services, building services, and industrial services. In 2021, we had revenues of approximately $9.9 billion. Our services are provided to a broad range of commercial, industrial, utility, and institutional customers through approximately 90 operating subsidiaries, which specialize principally in providing construction services relating to electrical and mechanical systems in all types of facilities and in providing various services relating to the operation, maintenance, and management of those facilities. Such operating subsidiaries are organized into the following reportable segments: United States electrical construction and facilities services United States mechanical construction and facilities services United States building services United States industrial services United Kingdom building services Our operating subsidiaries offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad scale and have a solid base of customers, including many long-standing relationships. We provide construction services and building services directly to corporations, municipalities and federal and state governmental entities, owners/developers, and tenants of buildings. We also provide our construction services indirectly by acting as a subcontractor to general contractors, systems suppliers, construction managers, developers, property managers, and other subcontractors. Our industrial services are generally provided directly to refineries and petrochemical plants. Our revenues are derived from many different customers in numerous industries, which have operations in several different geographical areas. Of our 2021 revenues, approximately 95% were generated in the United States and approximately 5% were generated in foreign countries, substantially all in the United Kingdom. In 2021, approximately 60% of our revenues were derived from our construction operations, approximately 30% of our revenues were derived from our building services operations and approximately 10% of our revenues were derived from our industrial services operations. For additional information regarding our revenues, see Note 3 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We believe that our range of service offerings, technical capability, and strong project execution, along with our safety culture and financial resources, differentiate us from our competition and position us to benefit from future capital spending by our customers. Our strategies of expanding our portfolio of service offerings for existing and potential customers and increasing or enhancing our presence in core end markets, along with our commitment to industry-leading best practices and technological and training capabilities, place us in the position to capitalize on opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and expand our operations to select new markets. Increasingly, our services are focused on delivering sustainable energy solutions, enhancements in energy efficiency, reductions in waste and emissions, and improvements in the safety and comfort of our customers facilities. The broad scope of our operations is more particularly described below. For detailed segment financial information refer to Note 18 - Segment Information of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our executive offices are located at 301 Merritt Seven, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1092, and our telephone number at those offices is (203) 849-7800. 1 Table of Contents Operations United States electrical and mechanical construction and facilities services operations: Our electrical and mechanical construction services primarily involve the design, integration, installation, start-up, operation and maintenance, and provision of services relating to: Systems for electrical power transmission, distribution, and generation, including power cables, conduits, distribution panels, transformers, generators, uninterruptible power supply systems, and related switch gear and controls; Sustainable energy solutions such as solar, photovoltaic, and wind, as well as the installation of electric vehicle charging stations; Premises electrical and lighting systems, including fixtures and controls; Process instrumentation in the refining, chemical processing, and food processing industries; Low-voltage systems, such as fire alarm, security, and process control systems; Voice and data communications, including fiber optic and low voltage cabling, distributed antenna systems, audiovisual systems, and wireless access points; Roadway and transit lighting and signaling and fiber optic lines; Heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration, including both traditional mechanical systems as well as geothermal solutions; Clean-room process ventilation systems; Fire protection and suppression systems; Plumbing, process and high-purity piping systems; Controls and filtration systems; Water and wastewater treatment systems; Central plant heating and cooling systems; Crane and rigging services; Millwright services; and Steel fabrication, erection, and welding services. The electrical and mechanical construction services industry has experienced growth due principally to the increased content, complexity, and sophistication of electrical and mechanical systems resulting, in part, from growth in digital processing, cloud computing, and data storage. In addition, facilities of all types require extensive electrical distribution systems, sophisticated power supplies, networks of low-voltage and fiber-optic communications cabling, and various mechanical, plumbing, and fire protection and suppression systems. Moreover, the need for substantial environmental controls within a building, due to the heightened need to maintain extensive computer systems at optimal temperatures, and the demand for increased energy efficiency, have continued to expand opportunities for our electrical and mechanical services businesses. The demand for these services is typically driven by non-residential construction and renovation activity. Our electrical and mechanical construction services generally fall into one of three categories: (a) large installation projects, with contracts often in the multi-million dollar range, that involve: (i) the construction of manufacturing facilities, data centers, warehousing and distribution facilities, and commercial buildings, (ii) institutional and public works projects, or (iii) the fit-out of large blocks of space within commercial buildings, (b) large and medium sized capital and maintenance projects for commercial, manufacturing, pharmaceutical, healthcare, oil and gas, industrial, and petrochemical clients and (c) smaller installation projects, of a short duration, typically involving fit-out, renovation, and retrofit work. We also install and maintain lighting for streets, highways, bridges and tunnels, traffic signals, computerized traffic control systems, and signal and communication systems for mass transit systems in several metropolitan areas. In addition, we manufacture and install sheet metal air handling systems for both our own mechanical construction operations and for unrelated mechanical contractors. We also maintain welding and pipe fabrication shops in support of some of our mechanical operations. 2 Table of Contents Our United States electrical and mechanical construction operations accounted for about 60% of our 2021 total revenues. Of such revenues, approximately 34% were generated by our electrical construction operations and approximately 66% were generated by our mechanical construction operations. We provide electrical and mechanical construction services for both large and small installation and renovation projects. Our largest projects have included those: (a) for commercial purposes (such as office buildings, data centers, convention centers, sports stadiums, and shopping malls); (b) for manufacturing and industrial purposes (such as pharmaceutical plants, steel, pulp and paper mills, food processing, automotive and semiconductor manufacturing facilities, power generation (including sustainable energy solutions such as solar and wind), oil and gas refineries, and chemical processing plants); (c) for transportation purposes (such as highways, bridges, airports, and transit systems); (d) for institutional purposes (such as educational and correctional facilities and research laboratories); (e) for healthcare purposes; (f) for water and wastewater purposes; and (g) for hospitality purposes (such as resorts, hotels, and gaming facilities). Our largest projects, which typically range in size from $10 million up to and occasionally exceeding $200 million, represented approximately 38% of our electrical and mechanical construction services revenues in 2021. Depending on the size and complexity of these projects, they may span multiple years and typically require significant technical and management skills and the financial strength to obtain performance bonds, which are often a condition to bidding for and winning these projects. Our projects of less than $10 million accounted for approximately 62% of our electrical and mechanical construction services revenues in 2021. These projects are typically completed in less than one year. They usually involve electrical and mechanical construction services when an end-user or owner undertakes construction or modification of a facility to accommodate a specific use, upgrade or replace aging systems, or increase energy efficiency. These projects frequently require electrical and mechanical systems to meet special needs such as critical systems power supply, fire protection systems, special environmental controls and high-purity air systems, sophisticated electrical and mechanical systems for data centers, new production lines in manufacturing plants, and office arrangements in existing office buildings. They are not usually dependent upon the new construction market. Demand for these projects and types of services is often prompted by the expiration of leases, changes in technology, the demand for more energy efficient systems, or changes in the customer s plant or office layout in the normal course of a customer s business. United States and United Kingdom building services operations: Our building services, which are provided to a wide range of facilities, including commercial, utility, institutional, and governmental facilities, include: Mobile mechanical maintenance and services for mechanical, electrical, plumbing, fire safety, and building automation systems; Small modification and retrofit projects; Program development, management, and maintenance for energy systems, including LEED Certified solutions to assist our customers in reducing energy consumption; Technical consulting and diagnostic services; Services aimed at improving indoor air quality; Installation and support for building systems; Commercial and government site-based operations and maintenance; Facility management, maintenance, and services; Floor care and janitorial services, including enhanced cleaning and sanitization services; Landscaping, lot sweeping, and snow removal; Other building services, including reception, security, and catering services; Vendor management and call center services; Military base operations support services; Infrastructure and building projects for federal, state, and local governmental agencies; and Outage services to utilities and industrial plants. While not all of the above services are performed in both countries, we provide building services throughout the United States and United Kingdom. Our building services operations have built upon our traditional electrical and mechanical construction operations and our client relationships to expand the scope of services being offered and to develop packages of services for customers on a local, regional, and national basis. 3 Table of Contents Our building services operations, which generated approximately 30% of our 2021 total revenues, provide services to owners, operators, tenants, and managers of all types of facilities both on a contractual basis for a specified period of time and on an individual task order basis. Of our building services revenues for 2021, approximately 83% were generated in the United States and approximately 17% were generated in the United Kingdom. Demand for our building services is often driven by customers decisions to focus on their core competencies, customers programs to reduce costs, the increasing technical complexity of their facilities, including their mechanical, electrical, building automation, voice and data, and other systems, and the need for increased reliability, energy efficiency, and air filtration and sanitization. These trends have led to outsourcing and privatization programs whereby customers in both the private and public sectors seek to contract out those activities that support, but are not directly associated with, the customer s core business. Clients of our building services business include federal and state governments, institutional organizations, utilities, independent power producers, healthcare providers, and major corporations engaged in information technology, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, financial services, and manufacturing, as well as large retailers and other businesses with geographically dispersed locations. We provide building services at a number of prominent buildings, including those that house the Secret Service, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Government Accountability Office, and the Department of Health and Human Services, as well as other government facilities, including the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. We also provide building services, as a prime contractor or a subcontractor, to U.S. military bases, including the Defense Intelligence Agency located on Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, and are involved in a joint venture providing building services to NASA s Armstrong Flight Research Center. The agreements pursuant to which this division provides services to the federal government are frequently for a base period and a number of option years exercisable at the sole discretion of the government, are often subject to renegotiation by the government in terms of scope of services, and are subject to termination by the government prior to the expiration of the applicable term. United States industrial services operations: Our industrial services are primarily provided to customers within the oil, gas, and petrochemical industries and consist of: Refinery turnaround planning and engineering services; Specialty welding services; Overhaul and maintenance of critical process units in refineries and petrochemical plants; Specialty technical services for refineries and petrochemical plants; Instrumentation and electrical services for energy infrastructure; On-site repairs, maintenance, and service of heat exchangers, towers, vessels, and piping; Design, manufacturing, repair, and hydro blast cleaning of shell and tube heat exchangers and related equipment; and Renewable energy services, including large scale solar projects, energy storage, and waste to biogas solutions. Our industrial services business, which generated approximately 10% of our 2021 total revenues, is a recognized leader in the refinery turnaround market and has a presence in the petrochemical market. Demand for these services is highly dependent on the strength of the oil and gas and related industrial markets. Our industrial services operations perform turnaround and maintenance services for critical units of refineries and petrochemical plants to upgrade, repair, and maintain them. Such services include: (a) engineering and planning in advance of complex refinery turnarounds; (b) overhaul and maintenance of critical process units (including hydrofluoric alkylation units, fluid catalytic cracking units, coking units, heaters, heat exchangers, and related mechanical equipment) during refinery and petrochemical plant shut downs; (c) replacement and new construction capital projects for refineries and petrochemical plants; (d) instrumentation and electrical services for energy infrastructure; and (e) other related specialty services such as: (i) welding (including pipe welding) and fabrication; (ii) heater, boiler, and reformer repairs and replacements; converter repair and revamps; and vessel, exchanger and tower services; (iii) tower and column repairs in refineries and petrochemical plants; (iv) installation and repair of refractory materials for critical units in process plants to protect equipment from corrosion, erosion, and extreme temperatures; and (v) acid-proofing services to protect critical components at refineries from chemical exposure. These businesses also design and manufacture highly engineered shell and tube heat exchangers and provide maintenance, repair, and cleaning services for heat exchangers both in the field and at our own shops, including tube and shell repairs, bundle repairs, and extraction services. In addition to these traditional industrial services, we are working to leverage our expertise in industrial services to construct and maintain carbon capture technologies and renewable energy projects. 4 Table of Contents Competition Across our operations, we compete with national, regional, and local companies, many of which are small, owner-operated entities that carry on their businesses in a limited geographic area, as well as with certain foreign companies. The electrical and mechanical construction services industry is highly fragmented and our competition includes thousands of small companies across the United States. In addition, there are a number of larger public companies focused on providing either electrical and/or mechanical construction services, such as APi Group Corporation, Comfort Systems USA, Inc., Dycom Industries, Inc., IES Holdings, Inc., MasTec, Inc., MYR Group, Inc., and Tutor Perini Corporation. A majority of our revenues are derived from projects requiring competitive bids; however, an invitation to bid is often conditioned upon prior experience, technical capability, and financial strength. Competitive factors in the electrical and mechanical construction services business include: (a) the availability of qualified and/or licensed personnel; (b) reputation for integrity and quality; (c) safety record; (d) cost structure and the ability to control project costs; (e) relationships with customers; (f) price; (g) geographic diversity; (h) experience in specialized markets; (i) the ability to obtain surety bonding; and (j) adequate working capital or access to bank credit. We believe our financial position, operating results, access to bank credit and surety bonding, technical expertise, and safety record, among other factors, give us an advantage over many of our competitors. However, relatively few barriers exist to prevent entry into the electrical and mechanical construction services industry. While the building services industry is also highly fragmented, with most competitors operating in a specific geographic region, a number of large corporations such as Amentum Services, Inc., IAP Worldwide Services, Inc., Fluor Corporation, J J Worldwide Services, Cushman Wakefield plc, CBRE Group, Inc., Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, Sodexo, Inc., Aramark, and ABM Industries Incorporated are engaged in this field, as are large original equipment manufacturers such as Carrier Global Corporation and Trane Technologies plc. In addition, we compete with several regional firms serving all or portions of the markets we target, such as BrightView Holdings, Inc., Kellermeyer Bergensons Services, LLC, SMS Assist, LLC, and Ferandino Son, Inc. Our principal competitors in the United Kingdom include CBRE Group, Inc., Bouygues UK Ltd., ISS UK Ltd., and Mitie Group plc. The key competitive factors in the building services industry include: (a) availability of qualified personnel and managers; (b) service quality and technical expertise; (c) cost structure and the ability to control project costs; (d) price; and (e) geographic diversity. Due to our size, our technical capability and management experience, and our geographic presence, we believe our building services operations are in a strong competitive position. However, there are relatively few barriers to entry into the building services industry. The market for providing industrial services includes large national providers, as well as numerous regional companies. In the manufacture of heat exchangers, we compete with both U.S. and foreign manufacturers. Competitors within this industry include JVIC Catalyst Services, Universal Plant Services, Inc., Turner Industries Group, LLC, Team, Inc., Cust-O-Fab, Inc., Dunn Heat Exchangers, Inc., and Wyatt Field Service Company, LLC, among others. The key competitive factors in the industrial services market consist of: (a) availability of skilled workforce; (b) technical expertise; (c) service, quality, and ability to respond quickly; (d) price; and (e) safety record. Due to our technical capabilities, skilled workforce, and safety record, we believe that we are in a strong competitive position in the industrial services markets that we serve. Because of the complex tasks associated with turnaround projects, and the precision and cost investment required in manufacturing heat exchangers, we believe that the barriers to entry in this business are significant. Human Capital At December 31, 2021, we employed approximately 34,000 people, approximately 30,000 of whom were located within the United States and approximately 4,000 of whom were located in the United Kingdom. Based on the most recent information available from our latest filing with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the gender demographic of our U.S. employees was 90% male and 10% female. Additionally, based on such information, our U.S. employees had the following race and ethnicity demographics: Employee Demographic % of Total White 70 % Hispanic / Latinx 17 % Black / African American 8 % Asian 2 % Multiracial, Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander 3 % 5 Table of Contents Approximately 60% of our employees are represented by various unions pursuant to nearly 450 collective bargaining agreements between our individual subsidiaries or trade associations and local unions, as well as two collective bargaining agreements that are national or regional in scope. We believe that our relations with our labor unions are generally positive. Our ability to execute complex projects for our customers, and to perform all of our services with the excellence that makes us an industry leader, depends on our success in attracting and retaining skilled labor in a competitive market. We therefore strive to be and remain an employer of choice for the most talented employees in each of the industries and markets in which we operate. This begins with offering competitive employee compensation and benefits packages, specifically designed to meet the unique needs of each individual in our organization, which include: Health and Welfare Plans : All full-time employees who do not participate in union plans are offered a range of choices among medical, dental and vision plans, life, accident, dependent and disability insurance, and pre-tax health spending accounts that include employer contributions. Retirement Savings : We help provide our employees with financial security by offering a 401(k) Savings Plan and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, both of which include company matching contributions. Degree Assistance : Eligible employees may apply for reimbursement for job-related courses or courses taken as part of a curriculum for a business or job-related degree at an accredited institution. Employee Assistance Program : Through our Employee Assistance Program, we offer our employees, and their dependents or household members, access to services and counseling on a variety of personal, professional, legal, and financial matters, at no cost. Key to our attraction and retention of employees is our commitment to our EMCOR Values and our focus on employee safety and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Our Board of Directors and senior leadership engage in oversight and management, respectively, of our significant human capital initiatives. Our Board of Directors is regularly briefed and provides input on key human capital initiatives and metrics. Commitment to Core Values We are committed to our EMCOR Values of Mission First: Integrity, Discipline, and Transparency and People Always: Mutual Respect and Trust, Commitment to Safety, and Teamwork. We constantly strive to ensure these values are reflected in how we do business every day, from our corporate culture and tone at the top, established by our Board of Directors and management team, to the critical work performed by all of our people at every level throughout our organization. We reinforce our EMCOR Values through many ongoing initiatives. Our EMCOR Values are embodied in our policies and procedures, including our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. We also regularly provide training on these values, both at time of hire and on an ongoing, periodic basis. In addition, to develop and reinforce our values company-wide, and empower our leaders to perform at the highest levels, senior leaders are invited to our Leadership for Results course at Babson College and our Leading with Character program at the Thayer Leadership Development Group at West Point. Workplace Safety We believe that our focus on employee safety and well-being is reflected in our results. In a year in which our employees worked a total of approximately 76 million hours, the second highest in our history, the Company s Total Recordable Incident Rate in 2021 was approximately 1.06, which was more than 60% lower than the most recently available industry average of 2.70. This represents our thirteenth consecutive year with a Total Recordable Incident Rate which was less than half the industry average. Our position as an industry leader in safety begins with a strong culture of care and vigilance embodied in our EMCOR Values and is supported by a comprehensive suite of training, resources,