Item 1. Business 1 General 1 Operations 2 Competition 5 Employees 5 Remaining Unsatisfied Performance Obligations 5 Available Information 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2. Properties 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 Executive Officers of the Registrant 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B. Other Information 90 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 91 Item 11. Executive Compensation 91 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 91 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 91 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 91 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 92 Table of Contents [This Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information included in this report, or in other materials we have filed or will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the 1995 Act ). Such statements are being made pursuant to the 1995 Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefit of the Safe Harbor provisions of the 1995 Act. Forward-looking statements are based on information available to us and our perception of such information as of the date of this report and our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They contain words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, may, can, could, might, variations of such wording and other words or phrases of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of our future operating or financial performance, and other aspects of our business, including market share growth, gross profit, project mix, projects with varying profit margins, selling, general and administrative expenses, and trends in our business and other characterizations of future events or circumstances. From time to time, forward-looking statements are also included in our other periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, in press releases, in our presentations, on our website and in other material released to the public. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this report and in any other reports or public statements made by us are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those identified below in the Risk Factors section, the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section, and other sections of this report, and in our Forms 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2019, June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2019 and in other reports filed by us from time to time with the SEC as well as in press releases, in our presentations, on our website and in other material released to the public. Such risks, uncertainties and assumptions are difficult to predict, beyond our control and may turn out to be inaccurate, causing actual results to differ materially from those that might be anticipated from our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. Table of Contents [This Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS References to the Company, EMCOR, we, us, our and similar words refer to EMCOR Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. General We are one of the largest electrical and mechanical construction and facilities services firms in the United States. In addition, we provide a number of building services and industrial services. In 2019, we had revenues of approximately $9.2 billion. Our services are provided to a broad range of commercial, industrial, utility and institutional customers through approximately 80 operating subsidiaries and joint venture entities. Our executive offices are located at 301 Merritt Seven, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1092, and our telephone number at those offices is (203) 849-7800. We specialize principally in providing construction services relating to electrical and mechanical systems in all types of facilities and in providing various services relating to the operation, maintenance and management of facilities, including refineries and petrochemical plants. Our electrical and mechanical construction services primarily involve the design, integration, installation, start-up, operation and maintenance, and provision of services relating to: Electric power transmission and distribution systems; Premises electrical and lighting systems; Process instrumentation in the refining, chemical processing, food processing and mining industries; Low-voltage systems, such as fire alarm, security and process control systems; Voice and data communications systems; Roadway and transit lighting and fiber optic lines; Heating, ventilation, air conditioning, refrigeration and clean-room process ventilation systems; Fire protection systems; Plumbing, process and high-purity piping systems; Controls and filtration systems; Water and wastewater treatment systems; Central plant heating and cooling systems; Crane and rigging services; Millwright services; and Steel fabrication, erection, and welding services. Our building services operations, which are provided to a wide range of facilities, including commercial, utility, institutional and governmental facilities, include: Commercial and government site-based operations and maintenance; Facility maintenance and services, including reception, security and catering services; Outage services to utilities and industrial plants; Military base operations support services; Mobile mechanical maintenance and services; 1 Table of Contents Floor care and janitorial services; Landscaping, lot sweeping and snow removal; Facilities management; Vendor management; Call center services; Installation and support for building systems; Program development, management and maintenance for energy systems; Technical consulting and diagnostic services; Infrastructure and building projects for federal, state and local governmental agencies and bodies; and Small modification and retrofit projects. Our industrial services are primarily provided to customers within the oil and gas industry and consist of: On-site repairs, maintenance and service of heat exchangers, towers, vessels and piping; Design, manufacturing, repair and hydro blast cleaning of shell and tube heat exchangers and related equipment; Refinery turnaround planning and engineering services; Specialty welding services; Overhaul and maintenance of critical process units in refineries and petrochemical plants; Specialty technical services for refineries and petrochemical plants; and Construction, maintenance, and support services within the upstream and midstream sectors. We provide construction services and building services directly to corporations, municipalities and federal and state governmental entities, owners/developers, and tenants of buildings. We also provide our construction services indirectly by acting as a subcontractor to general contractors, systems suppliers, construction managers, developers, property managers and other subcontractors. Our industrial services are generally provided directly to refineries and petrochemical plants. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 36,000 employees. Our revenues are derived from many different customers in numerous industries, which have operations in several different geographical areas. Of our 2019 revenues, approximately 95% were generated in the United States and approximately 5% were generated in foreign countries, substantially all in the United Kingdom. In 2019, approximately 60% of revenues were derived from our construction operations, approximately 28% of revenues were derived from our building services operations and approximately 12% of revenues were derived from our industrial services operations. During the third quarter of 2014, we ceased construction operations in the United Kingdom. The results of the construction operations of our United Kingdom segment for all periods are presented as discontinued operations. The broad scope of our operations is more particularly described below. For information regarding the revenues, operating income and total assets of each of our segments with respect to each of the last three years, and our revenues and assets attributable to the United States and the United Kingdom for the last three years, see Note 19 - Segment Information of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Operations The electrical and mechanical construction services industry continues to experience growth due principally to the increased content, complexity, and sophistication of electrical and mechanical systems resulting, in part, from growth in digital processing, and cloud computing and data storage. In addition, facilities of all types require extensive electrical distribution systems, sophisticated power supplies, and networks of low-voltage and fiber-optic communications cabling. Moreover, the need for substantial environmental controls within a building, due to the heightened need to maintain extensive computer systems at optimal temperatures, and the demand for energy savings, have over the years expanded opportunities for our electrical and mechanical services businesses. The demand for these services is typically driven by non-residential construction and renovation activity. 2 Table of Contents Our electrical and mechanical construction services primarily involve the design, integration, installation and start-up of, and provision of services relating to: (a) electric power transmission and distribution systems, including power cables, conduits, distribution panels, transformers, generators, uninterruptible power supply systems and related switch gear and controls; (b) premises electrical and lighting systems, including fixtures and controls; (c) process instrumentation in the refining, chemical processing, food processing and mining industries; (d) low-voltage systems, such as fire alarm, security and process control systems; (e) voice and data communications systems, including fiber-optic and low-voltage cabling; (f) roadway and transit lighting and fiber-optic lines; (g) heating, ventilation, air conditioning, refrigeration and clean-room process ventilation systems; (h) fire protection systems; (i) plumbing, process and high-purity piping systems; (j) controls and filtration systems; (k) water and wastewater treatment systems; (l) central plant heating and cooling systems; (m) cranes and rigging; (n) millwrighting; and (o) steel fabrication, erection and welding. Our electrical and mechanical construction services generally fall into one of three categories: (a) large installation projects with contracts often in the multi-million dollar range that involve the construction of manufacturing and commercial buildings and institutional and public works projects or the fit-out of large blocks of space within commercial buildings, (b) large and medium sized capital and maintenance projects for manufacturing, petrochemical, oil and gas, industrial and commercial clients and (c) smaller installation projects typically involving fit-out, renovation and retrofit work. Our United States electrical and mechanical construction operations accounted for about 60% of our 2019 total revenues. Of such revenues, approximately 40% were generated by our electrical construction operations and approximately 60% were generated by our mechanical construction operations. We provide electrical and mechanical construction services for both large and small installation and renovation projects. Our largest projects have included those: (a) for institutional purposes (such as educational and correctional facilities and research laboratories); (b) for manufacturing purposes (such as pharmaceutical plants, steel, pulp and paper mills, food processing, automotive and semiconductor manufacturing facilities and power generation); (c) for transportation purposes (such as highways, bridges, airports and transit systems); (d) for commercial purposes (such as office buildings, data centers, convention centers, sports stadiums and shopping malls); (e) for hospitality purposes (such as resorts, hotels and gaming facilities); (f) for water and wastewater purposes; (g) for healthcare purposes; (h) for process facilities (such as oil and gas refineries and chemical processing plants); and (i) for oil and gas pipeline compressor stations and terminal and metering facilities. Our largest projects, which typically range in size from $10.0 million up to and occasionally exceeding $150.0 million and are frequently multi-year projects, represented approximately 34% of our electrical and mechanical construction services revenues in 2019. Our projects of less than $10.0 million accounted for approximately 66% of our electrical and mechanical construction services revenues in 2019. These projects are typically completed in less than one year. They usually involve electrical and mechanical construction services when an end-user or owner undertakes construction or modification of a facility to accommodate a specific use. These projects frequently require electrical and mechanical systems to meet special needs such as critical systems power supply, fire protection systems, special environmental controls and high-purity air systems, sophisticated electrical and mechanical systems for data centers, new production lines in manufacturing plants, and office arrangements in existing office buildings. They are not usually dependent upon the new construction market. Demand for these projects and types of services is often prompted by the expiration of leases, changes in technology, or changes in the customer s plant or office layout in the normal course of a customer s business. We have a broad customer base with many long-standing relationships. We perform construction services pursuant to contracts with owners (such as corporations, municipalities and other governmental entities), general contractors, systems suppliers, construction managers, developers, other subcontractors, and tenants of commercial properties. Institutional and public works projects are frequently long-term complex projects that require significant technical and management skills and the financial strength to obtain bid and performance bonds, which are often a condition to bidding for and winning these projects. We also install and maintain lighting for streets, highways, bridges and tunnels, traffic signals, computerized traffic control systems, and signal and communication systems for mass transit systems in several metropolitan areas. In addition, in the United States, we manufacture and install sheet metal air handling systems for both our own mechanical construction operations and for unrelated mechanical contractors. We also maintain welding and pipe fabrication shops in support of some of our mechanical operations. Our United States building services segment offers a broad range of services, including operation, maintenance and service of mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and building automation systems; commercial and government site-based operations and maintenance; facility maintenance and services, including outage services to utilities and manufacturing facilities; military base operations support services; mobile mechanical maintenance and services; floor care and janitorial services; landscaping, lot sweeping and snow removal; facilities management; vendor management; call center services; installation and support for building systems; program development, management and maintenance with respect to energy systems; technical consulting and diagnostic 3 Table of Contents services; infrastructure and building projects for federal, state and local governmental agencies and bodies; and small modification and retrofit projects. Our building services operations, which generated approximately 28% of our 2019 total revenues, provide services to owners, operators, tenants and managers of all types of facilities both on a contractual basis for a specified period of time and on an individual task order basis. Of our 2019 building services revenues, approximately 83% were generated in the United States and approximately 17% were generated in the United Kingdom. Our building services operations have built upon our traditional electrical and mechanical services operations and our client relationships to expand the scope of services being offered and to develop packages of services for customers on a regional and national basis. Demand for our building services is often driven by customers decisions to focus on their core competencies, customers programs to reduce costs, the increasing technical complexity of their facilities and their mechanical, electrical, building automation, voice and data, and other systems, and the need for increased reliability, especially in mechanical, electrical, and building automation systems. These trends have led to outsourcing and privatization programs whereby customers in both the private and public sectors seek to contract out those activities that support, but are not directly associated with, the customer s core business. Clients of our building services business include federal and state governments, institutional organizations, utilities, independent power producers, healthcare providers, and major corporations engaged in information technology, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, financial services, and manufacturing, as well as large retailers and other businesses with geographically dispersed portfolios throughout the United States. We currently provide building services in a majority of the states in the United States to commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental customers and as part of our operations are responsible for: (a) the oversight of all or most of the facilities operations, including repair and maintenance; (b) servicing, upgrade and retrofit of HVAC, electrical, plumbing and industrial piping and sheet metal systems in existing facilities; (c) interior and exterior services, including floor care and janitorial services, landscaping, lot sweeping and snow removal; (d) diagnostic and solution engineering for building systems and their components; and (e) maintenance and support services to manufacturers and power producers. We provide building services at a number of prominent buildings, including those that house the Secret Service, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the General Accountability Office (GAO), and the Department of Health and Human Services, as well as other government facilities, including the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. We also provide building services, as a prime contractor or a subcontractor, to a number of military bases, including base operations support services to the Navy National Capital Region and the Army s Carlisle Barracks in Pennsylvania, and are involved in a joint venture providing building services to NASA s Armstrong Flight Research Center in Edwards, California. The agreements pursuant to which this division provides services to the federal government are frequently for a base period and a number of option years exercisable at the sole discretion of the government, are often subject to renegotiation by the government in terms of scope of services, and are subject to termination by the government prior to the expiration of the applicable term. Our United Kingdom subsidiary primarily focuses on building services and currently provides a broad range of services under multi-year agreements to public and private sector customers, including utilities, airlines, airports, real estate property managers, manufacturers, governmental agencies and the finance sector. Our industrial services operations, which generated approximately 12% of our 2019 total revenues, is a recognized leader in the refinery turnaround market and has a growing presence in the petrochemical market. Our industrial services businesses perform a broad range of turnaround and maintenance services for critical units of refineries and petrochemical plants so as to upgrade, repair, and maintain them. Such services include turnaround and maintenance services relating to: (a) engineering and planning services in advance of complex refinery turnarounds; (b) overhaul and maintenance of critical process units (including hydrofluoric alkylation units, fluid catalytic cracking units, coking units, heaters, heat exchangers and related mechanical equipment) during refinery and petrochemical plant shut downs; (c) replacement and new construction capital projects for refineries and petrochemical plants; and (d) other related specialty services such as (i) welding (including pipe welding) and fabrication; (ii) heater, boiler, and reformer repairs and replacements; converter repair and revamps; and vessel, exchanger and tower services; (iii) tower and column repairs in refineries and petrochemical plants; (iv) installation and repair of refractory materials for critical units in process plants so as to protect equipment from corrosion, erosion, and extreme temperatures; and (v) acid-proofing services to protect critical components at refineries from chemical exposure. In addition, these businesses: (a) provide maintenance, repair and cleaning services for highly engineered shell and tube heat exchangers for refineries and petrochemical plants both in the field and at our own shops, including tube and shell repairs, bundle repairs, and extraction services; (b) design and manufacture new highly engineered shell and tube heat exchangers; and (c) provide construction, maintenance, and support services to customers within the upstream and midstream sectors. 4 Table of Contents Competition In our construction services, building services and industrial services businesses, we compete with national, regional and local companies, many of which are small, owner-operated entities that carry on their businesses in a limited geographic area, as well as with certain foreign companies. We believe that the electrical and mechanical construction services industry is highly fragmented and our competition includes thousands of small companies across the United States. In the United States, there are a few public companies focused on providing either electrical and/or mechanical construction services, such as Integrated Electrical Services, Inc., Comfort Systems USA, Inc. and Tutor Perini Corporation. A majority of our revenues are derived from projects requiring competitive bids; however, an invitation to bid is often conditioned upon prior experience, technical capability and financial strength. Because we have total assets, annual revenues, access to bank credit and surety bonding, and expertise significantly greater than most of our competitors, we believe we have a significant competitive advantage over our competitors in providing electrical and mechanical construction services. Competitive factors in the electrical and mechanical construction services business include: (a) the availability of qualified and/or licensed personnel; (b) reputation for integrity and quality; (c) safety record; (d) cost structure; (e) relationships with customers; (f) geographic diversity; (g) the ability to control project costs; (h) experience in specialized markets; (i) the ability to obtain surety bonding; (j) adequate working capital; (k) access to bank credit; and (l) price. However, there are relatively few significant barriers to entry to several types of our construction services. While the building services industry is also highly fragmented, with most competitors operating in a specific geographic region, a number of large United States based corporations such as AECOM Technology Corporation, Johnson Controls, Inc., Fluor Corp., J J Worldwide Services, Cushman Wakefield Inc., CBRE Group, Inc., Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, Sodexo, Inc., Aramark Corporation and ABM Industries Incorporated are engaged in this field, as are large original equipment manufacturers such as Carrier Corp. and Trane Inc. In addition, we compete with several regional firms serving all or portions of the markets we target, such as Brickman Valley Crest, Inc., Kellermeyer Bergensons Services, Inc., SMS Assist, LLC and Ferandino Sons, Inc. Our principal services competitors in the United Kingdom include CBRE Group, Inc., Bouygues UK Ltd., ISS UK Ltd., and MITIE Group plc. The key competitive factors in the building services business include price, service, quality, technical expertise, geographic scope and the availability of qualified personnel and managers. Due to our size, both financial and geographic, and our technical capability and management experience, we believe we are in a strong competitive position in the building services business. However, there are relatively few barriers to entry to most of our building services businesses. The market for providing industrial services includes large national providers, as well as numerous regional companies. In the manufacture of heat exchangers, we compete with both U.S. and foreign manufactures. Competitors within this industry include JV Industrial Companies Ltd., Matrix Service Company, United Plant Services, Inc., Turner Industries, Team, Inc., Cust-O-Fab, Dunn Heat, Wyatt Field Service Company, and DeepWell Energy Services, LLC, among others. The key competitive factors in the industrial services market consist of service, quality, ability to respond quickly, technical expertise, price, safety record and availability of qualified personnel. Due to our technical capabilities, safety record and skilled workforce, we believe that we are in a strong competitive position in the industrial services markets that we serve. Because of the complex tasks associated with turnarounds and the precision required in manufacturing heat exchangers, we believe that the barriers to entry in this business are significant. Employees At December 31, 2019, we employed approximately 36,000 people, approximately 59% of whom are represented by various unions pursuant to approximately 400 collective bargaining agreements between our individual subsidiaries and local unions. We believe that our employee relations are generally good. Only two of these collective bargaining agreements are national or regional in scope. Remaining Unsatisfied Performance Obligations Our remaining unsatisfied performance obligations ( remaining performance obligations ) at December 31, 2019 were $4.04 billion. Remaining performance obligations increase with awards of new contracts and decrease as we perform work and recognize revenue on existing contracts. We include a project within our remaining performance obligations at such time as the project is awarded and agreement on contract terms has been reached. Our remaining performance obligations include amounts related to contracts for which a fixed price contract value is not assigned when a reasonable estimate of total transaction price can be made. Remaining performance obligations include unrecognized revenues to be realized from uncompleted construction contracts. Although many of our construction contracts are subject to cancellation at the election of our customers, in accordance with industry practice, we do not limit the amount of unrecognized revenue included within remaining performance obligations for these contracts due to the inherent substantial economic penalty that would be incurred by our customers upon cancellation. We believe our 5 Table of Contents reported remaining performance obligations for our construction contracts are firm and contract cancellations have not had a material adverse effect on us. Remaining performance obligations also include unrecognized revenues expected to be realized over the remaining term of service contracts. However, to the extent a service contract includes a cancellation clause which allows for the termination of such contract by either party without a substantive penalty, the remaining contract term, and therefore, the amount of unrecognized revenues included within remaining performance obligations, is limited to the notice period required for the termination. Our remaining performance obligations are comprised of: (a) original contract amounts, (b) change orders for which we have received written confirmations from our customers, (c) pending change orders for which we expect to receive confirmations in the ordinary course of business, (d) claim amounts that we have made against customers for which we have determined we have a legal basis under existing contractual arrangements and as to