Item 1. Business 1 Overview 1 Operations 2 Competition 5 Human Capital 5 Available Information 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 1C. C ybersecurity 19 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 20 Executive Officers of the Registrant 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. [Reserved] 22 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 38 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B. Other Information 83 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 83 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 84 Item 11. Executive Compensation 84 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 84 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 84 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 84 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 85 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 89 Table of Contents [This Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They generally contain words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, may, can, could, might, variations of such wording and other words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements in this report include discussions of our future operating or financial performance and other forward-looking commentary regarding aspects of our business, including market share growth, gross profit, remaining performance obligations, project mix, projects with varying profit margins and contractual terms, selling, general and administrative expenses, our ability to maintain a strong safety record, and trends in our business, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances, such as the effects of supply chain disruptions and delays. Each forward-looking statement included in this report is subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified in the Risk Factors section, the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section, and other sections of this report. Applicable risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: adverse effects of general economic conditions; domestic and international political developments; changes in the specific markets for EMCOR s services; adverse business conditions, including scarcity of skilled labor, productivity challenges, the nature and extent of supply chain disruptions impacting availability and pricing of materials, and inflationary trends more generally, including fluctuations in energy costs; the impact of legislation and/or government regulations; changes in interest rates; the availability of adequate levels of surety bonding; increased competition; unfavorable developments in the mix of our business; and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. Such risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those that might be anticipated from, or projected or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Accordingly, these statements do not guarantee future performance or events. The forward-looking statements contained in this report speak only as of the filing date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements unless required by law. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) should be consulted. We caution investors not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, due to their inherent uncertainty. Table of Contents [This Page Intentionally Left Blank] Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS References to the Company, EMCOR, we, us, our and similar words refer to EMCOR Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. Overview We are one of the largest specialty contractors in the United States and a leading provider of electrical and mechanical construction and facilities services, building services, and industrial services. In 2023, we had revenues of approximately $12.6 billion. Our services are provided to a broad range of commercial, technology, manufacturing, industrial, healthcare, utility, and institutional customers through approximately 100 operating subsidiaries, which specialize principally in providing construction services relating to electrical and mechanical systems in all types of facilities and in providing various services relating to the operation, maintenance, and management of those facilities. Such operating subsidiaries are organized into the following reportable segments: United States electrical construction and facilities services; United States mechanical construction and facilities services; United States building services; United States industrial services; and United Kingdom building services. Our operating subsidiaries offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad scale and have many long-standing customer relationships. We provide construction services and building services directly to corporations, municipalities and federal and state governmental entities, owners/developers, and tenants of buildings. We also provide our construction services indirectly by acting as a subcontractor to general contractors, systems suppliers, construction managers, developers, property managers, and other subcontractors. We generally provide industrial services directly to refineries and petrochemical plants. We derive revenues from many different customers in numerous industries, which have operations in several different geographical areas. Of our 2023 revenues, approximately 97% were generated in the United States and approximately 3% were generated in foreign countries, substantially all in the United Kingdom. In 2023, we derived approximately 63% of our revenues from our construction operations, approximately 28% of our revenues from our building services operations, and approximately 9% of our revenues from our industrial services operations. For additional information regarding our revenues, see Note 3 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We believe that our range of service offerings, technical capability, skilled workforce, and strong project execution, along with our safety culture and financial resources, differentiate us from our competition and position us to benefit from future capital and maintenance spending by our customers. Our strategies of expanding our portfolio of service offerings for existing and potential customers and increasing or enhancing our presence in core end markets and geographies, along with our commitment to industry-leading best practices and technological and training capabilities, place us in the position to capitalize on opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and continue to grow our business. Increasingly, our services are focused on delivering sustainable energy solutions, enhancements in energy efficiency, reductions in waste and emissions, and improvements in the safety and comfort of our customers facilities. The broad scope of our operations is more particularly described below. For detailed segment financial information refer to Note 18 - Segment Information of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our executive offices are located at 301 Merritt Seven, Norwalk, Connecticut 06851-1092, and our telephone number at those offices is (203) 849-7800. 1 Table of Contents Operations United States electrical and mechanical construction and facilities services operations: Our electrical and mechanical construction services primarily involve the design, integration, installation, start-up, operation and maintenance, and provision of services relating to: Systems for electrical power transmission, distribution, and generation, including power cables, conduits, distribution panels, transformers, generators, uninterruptible power supply systems, and related switch gear and controls; Sustainable energy solutions such as solar, photovoltaic, and wind, as well as the installation of electric vehicle charging stations; Premises electrical and lighting systems, including fixtures and controls; Process instrumentation in the refining, chemical processing, and food processing industries; Low-voltage systems, such as fire alarm, security, and process control systems; Voice and data communications, including fiber optic and low voltage cabling, distributed antenna systems, audiovisual systems, and wireless access points; Roadway and transit lighting and signaling and fiber optic lines; Computerized traffic control systems, and signal and communication equipment for mass transit systems; Heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and refrigeration, including both traditional mechanical systems as well as geothermal solutions; Clean-room process ventilation systems; Fire protection and suppression systems; Plumbing, process and high-purity piping systems; Controls and filtration systems; Water and wastewater treatment systems; Central plant heating and cooling systems, including manufacturing and installing sheet metal air handling systems; Crane and rigging services; Millwright services; and Steel fabrication, erection, and welding services. The electrical and mechanical construction services industry has experienced growth principally due to the increased content, complexity, and sophistication of electrical and mechanical systems resulting, in part, from growth in digital processing, cloud computing, data storage, and the emergence of artificial intelligence. In addition, facilities of all types require extensive electrical distribution systems, sophisticated power supplies, networks of low-voltage and fiber-optic communications cabling, and various mechanical, plumbing, and fire protection and suppression systems. Moreover, the need for substantial environmental controls within a building, due to the heightened need to maintain extensive computer systems at optimal temperatures, and the demand for increased energy efficiency, have continued to expand opportunities for our electrical and mechanical services businesses. The demand for these services is typically driven by non-residential construction and renovation activity and, in recent years, has benefited from the re-shoring of the supply chain, the need for additional high-tech manufacturing facilities, and the energy transition/expansion throughout the United States, all of which have been bolstered by certain government incentives. Our electrical and mechanical construction services generally fall into one of three categories: (a) large installation projects, with contracts often in the multi-million dollar range, that involve: (i) the construction of manufacturing facilities, data centers, warehousing and distribution facilities, and commercial buildings, (ii) institutional and public works projects, or (iii) the fit-out of large blocks of space within commercial or mixed-use buildings, (b) large and medium sized capital and maintenance projects for commercial, manufacturing, pharmaceutical, healthcare, oil and gas, and industrial clients, and (c) smaller installation projects, of a short duration, typically involving fit-out, renovation, and retrofit work. Our United States electrical and mechanical construction operations accounted for approximately 63% of our 2023 total revenues. Of such revenues, approximately 35% were generated by our electrical construction operations and approximately 65% were generated by our mechanical construction operations. 2 Table of Contents Our largest projects typically include those within: (a) the commercial market sector (including warehousing and distribution facilities, office or mixed-use buildings, and shopping malls); (b) the network and communications market sector (including data centers, data and fiber projects, and cabling); (c) the manufacturing and industrial market sector (including steel, pulp and paper mills, food processing and traditional automotive manufacturing facilities, power generation (including sustainable energy solutions such as solar and wind), oil and gas refineries, and chemical processing plants); (d) the high-tech manufacturing market sector (including semiconductor, biotech, life-sciences, and pharmaceutical facilities, as well as projects across the electric vehicle value chain); (e) the healthcare market sector (including hospitals, surgical centers, rehabilitation and nursing facilities, and medical offices); (f) the institutional market sector (including educational and correctional facilities and research laboratories); (g) the water and wastewater market sector; (h) the transportation market sector (including highways, bridges, airports, and transit systems); and (i) the hospitality and entertainment market sector (including resorts, hotels, gaming facilities, convention centers, and sports stadiums). Our largest projects, which typically range in size from $10 million up to and occasionally exceeding $200 million, represented approximately 45% of our electrical and mechanical construction services revenues in 2023. These projects often involve new construction and a combination of design, installation, and start-up services. Depending on the size and complexity of these projects, they may span multiple years and typically require significant technical and management skills and the financial strength to obtain performance bonds, which are often a condition to bidding for and winning these projects. Our projects of less than $10 million accounted for approximately 55% of our electrical and mechanical construction services revenues in 2023. These projects are typically completed in less than one year. They usually involve electrical and mechanical construction services when an end-user or owner undertakes construction or modification of a facility to accommodate a specific use, upgrade or replace aging systems, or increase energy efficiency. These projects frequently require electrical and mechanical systems to meet special needs such as critical systems power supply, fire protection systems, special environmental controls and high-purity air systems, sophisticated electrical and mechanical systems for data centers, new production lines in manufacturing plants, and office arrangements in existing office buildings. They are not usually dependent upon the new construction market. Demand for these projects and types of services is often prompted by the expiration of leases, changes in technology, the demand for more energy efficient systems, or changes in the customer s plant or office layout in the normal course of a customer s business. United States and United Kingdom building services operations: Our building services include: Maintenance and services for mechanical, electrical, plumbing, fire safety, and building automation systems; Modification and retrofit projects; Program development, management, and maintenance for energy systems, including LEED and other sustainable solutions to assist our customers in reducing energy consumption; Energy efficiency retrofit services, including HVAC, lighting, water, weatherization, and air flow management solutions: Technical consulting and diagnostic services; Services aimed at improving indoor air quality; Installation and support for building systems; Commercial and government site-based operations and maintenance; Facility management, maintenance, and services; Floor care and janitorial services, including enhanced cleaning and sanitization services; Landscaping, lot sweeping, and snow removal; Other building services, including reception, security, and catering services; Vendor management and call center services; Military base operations support services; and Infrastructure and building projects for federal, state, and local governmental agencies. While not all of the above services are performed in both countries, we provide building services throughout the United States and United Kingdom. Our building services operations have built upon our traditional electrical and mechanical construction operations and our client relationships to expand the scope of services being offered and to develop packages of services for customers on a local, regional, and national basis. 3 Table of Contents Our building services operations, which generated approximately 28% of our 2023 total revenues, provide services to owners, operators, tenants, and managers of all types of facilities both on a contractual basis for a specified period of time and on an individual task order basis. Of our building services revenues for 2023, approximately 88% were generated in the United States and approximately 12% were generated in the United Kingdom. Demand for our building services is often driven by customers decisions to focus on their core competencies, customers programs to reduce costs, the increasing technical complexity of customers facilities, including their mechanical, electrical, building automation, voice and data, and other systems, and the need for increased reliability, energy efficiency, and air filtration and sanitization. These trends have led to outsourcing and privatization programs whereby customers in both the private and public sectors seek to contract out those activities that support, but are not directly associated with, the customer s core business. Clients of our building services business include federal and state governments, institutional organizations, utilities, healthcare providers, and major corporations engaged in information technology, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, financial services, and manufacturing, as well as large retailers and other businesses with geographically dispersed locations. We provide building services at a number of prominent buildings in the United States, including those that house the National Archives and Records Administration, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Government Accountability Office, and the Departments of Transportation, Education, Health and Human Services, Energy, and Homeland Security, as well as other government facilities, including the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. We also provide building services, as a prime contractor or a subcontractor, to U.S. military bases and various other governmental agencies. The agreements pursuant to which this division provides services to the federal government are frequently for a base period and a number of option years exercisable at the sole discretion of the government, are often subject to modification or renegotiation by the government in terms of scope of services, and are subject to termination by the government prior to the expiration of the applicable term. United States industrial services operations: Our industrial services are primarily provided to customers within the oil, gas, and petrochemical industries and consist of: Refinery turnaround planning and engineering services; Specialty welding services; Overhaul and maintenance of critical process units in refineries and petrochemical plants; Specialty technical services for refineries and petrochemical plants; Instrumentation and electrical services for energy infrastructure; On-site repairs, maintenance, and service of heat exchangers, towers, vessels, and piping; Design, manufacturing, repair, and hydro blast cleaning of shell and tube heat exchangers and related equipment; and Renewable energy services, including large scale solar projects, energy storage, and waste to biogas solutions. Our industrial services business, which generated approximately 9% of our 2023 total revenues, is a recognized leader in the refinery turnaround market and has a presence in the petrochemical market. Demand for these services is highly dependent on the strength of the oil and gas and related industrial markets. Our industrial services operations perform turnaround and maintenance services for critical units of refineries and petrochemical plants to upgrade, repair, and maintain them. Such services include: (a) engineering and planning in advance of complex refinery and petrochemical turnarounds; (b) overhaul and maintenance of critical process units (including hydrofluoric alkylation units, fluid catalytic cracking units, coking units, heaters, heat exchangers, and related mechanical equipment) during refinery and petrochemical plant shut downs; (c) replacement and new construction capital projects for refineries and petrochemical plants; (d) instrumentation and electrical services for energy infrastructure; and (e) other related specialty services such as: (i) welding (including pipe welding) and fabrication; (ii) heater, boiler, and reformer repairs and replacements; converter repair and revamps; and vessel, exchanger and tower services; (iii) tower and column repairs in refineries and petrochemical plants; (iv) installation and repair of refractory materials for critical units in process plants to protect equipment from corrosion, erosion, and extreme temperatures; and (v) acid-proofing services to protect critical components at refineries from chemical exposure. These businesses also design and manufacture highly engineered shell and tube heat exchangers and provide maintenance, repair, and cleaning services for heat exchangers both in the field and at our own shops, including tube and shell repairs, bundle repairs, and extraction services. In addition to these traditional industrial services, we are beginning to leverage our expertise in industrial services to construct and maintain carbon capture technologies and renewable energy projects. 4 Table of Contents Competition Across our operations, we compete with national, regional, and local companies, many of which are small, owner-operated entities that carry on their businesses in a limited geographic area, as well as with certain foreign companies. The electrical and mechanical construction services industry is highly fragmented and our competition includes thousands of small companies across the United States. In addition, there are a number of larger public companies focused on providing electrical and/or mechanical construction services, such as APi Group Corporation, Comfort Systems USA, Inc., Dycom Industries, Inc., IES Holdings, Inc., MasTec, Inc., MYR Group Inc., and Tutor Perini Corporation. A majority of our revenues are derived from projects requiring competitive bids; however, an invitation to bid is often conditioned upon prior experience, technical capability, and financial strength. Competitive factors in the electrical and mechanical construction services business include: (a) the availability of qualified and/or licensed personnel; (b) reputation for integrity and quality; (c) safety record; (d) cost structure and the ability to control project costs; (e) relationships with customers; (f) price; (g) geographic diversity; (h) experience in specialized markets; (i) the ability to obtain surety bonding; (j) adequate working capital or access to bank credit; and (k) the use of technology such as building information modeling (BIM). We believe our financial position, operating results, access to bank credit and surety bonding, technical expertise including prefabrication and BIM capabilities, and safety record, among other factors, give us an advantage over many of our competitors. However, relatively few barriers exist to prevent entry into the electrical and mechanical construction services industry. While the building services industry is also highly fragmented, with most competitors operating in a specific geographic region, a number of large corporations such as Amentum Services, Inc., IAP Worldwide Services, Inc., Fluor Corporation, J J Worldwide Services, Cushman Wakefield plc, CBRE Group, Inc., Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, Sodexo, Inc., Aramark, and ABM Industries Incorporated are engaged in this field, as are large original equipment manufacturers such as Carrier Global Corporation and Trane Technologies plc. In addition, we compete with several regional firms serving all or portions of the markets we target, such as BrightView Holdings, Inc., Kellermeyer Bergensons Services, LLC, and SMS Assist, L.L.C. Our principal competitors in the United Kingdom include CBRE Group, Inc., ISS UK Ltd., Equans Services Limited, OCS Group UK Limited, and Mitie Group PLC. The key competitive factors in the building services industry include: (a) availability of qualified personnel and managers; (b) service quality and technical expertise; (c) the use of technology tools and data analytics; (d) cost structure and the ability to control project costs; (e) price; and (f) geographic diversity. Due to our size, our technical capability and management experience, and our geographic presence, we believe our building services operations are in a strong competitive position. However, there are relatively few barriers to entry into the building services industry. The market for providing industrial services includes large national providers, as well as numerous regional companies. In the manufacture of heat exchangers, we compete with both U.S. and foreign manufacturers. Competitors within this industry include JVIC Catalyst Services, Universal Plant Services, Inc., Turner Industries Group, LLC, Team, Inc., Cust-O-Fab, Inc., Dunn Heat Exchangers, Inc., Turn2 Specialty Companies, and Wyatt Field Service Company, LLC, among others. The key competitive factors in the industrial services market consist of: (a) availability of skilled workforce; (b) technical expertise; (c) service, quality, and ability to respond quickly; (d) price; and (e) safety record. Due to our technical capabilities, skilled workforce, and safety record, we believe that we are in a strong competitive position in the industrial services markets that we serve. Although the technical expertise and capital investment that is required in manufacturing heat exchangers may be considered a barrier to entry in this field, there are significantly fewer barriers to entry as it pertains to turnaround projects and services. Human Capital At December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 38,300 people, approximately 35,000 of whom were located within the United States and approximately 3,300 of whom were located in the United Kingdom. Based on the most recent information available from our latest filing with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the gender demographic of our U.S. employees was 89% male and 11% female. Additionally, based on such information, our U.S. employees had the following race and ethnicity demographics: Employee Demographic % of Total White 69 % Hispanic / Latino 18 % Black / African American 8 % Asian 2 % Multiracial, Native American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander 3 % 5 Table of Contents Approximately 60% of our employees are represented by various unions pursuant to nearly 450 collective bargaining agreements between our individual subsidiaries or trade associations and local unions, as well as two collective bargaining agreements that are national or regional in scope. We believe that our relations with our labor unions are generally positive. Our ability to execute complex projects for our customers, and to perform all of our services with the excellence that makes us an industry leader, depends on our success in attracting and retaining skilled labor in a competitive market. We therefore strive to be and remain an employer of choice for the most talented employees in each of the industries and markets in which we operate. This begins with offering competitive employee compensation and benefits packages, specifically designed to meet the unique needs of each individual in our organization, which include: Health and Welfare Plans : All full-time employees who do not participate in union plans are offered a range of choices among medical, dental and vision plans, life, accident, dependent and disability insurance, and pre-tax health savings accounts that include employer contributions. Retirement Savings : We help provide our employees with financial security by offering a 401(k) Savings Plan, which includes company matching contributions. Degree Assistance : Eligible employees may apply for reimbursement for job-related courses or courses taken as part of a curriculum for a business or job-related degree at an accredited institution. Employee Assistance Program : Through our Employee Assistance Program, we offer our employees, and their dependents or household members, access to services and counseling on a variety of personal, professional, legal, and financial matters, at no cost. College Coaching : Our College Coach Program provided through Bright Horizons provides employees and their families with support as they navigate the college admissions process, including live webinars, tuition payment financial planning, and insight from former admissions officers, finance professionals, and educators. Key to our attraction and retention of employees is our commitment to our EMCOR Values and our focus on employee safety and inclusion. Our Board of Directors and senior leadership engage in direct oversight and management, respectively, of our s