ITEM 1 - BUSINESS Emerson ( the Company ) is a global leader that designs and manufactures products and delivers services that bring technology and engineering together to provide innovative solutions for customers in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around the world. Our purpose is to drive innovation that makes the world healthier, safer, smarter and more sustainable. Sales by geographic destination in 2020 were: the Americas, 53 percent; Europe, 18 percent; and Asia, Middle East Africa, 29 percent (China, 11 percent). The Company reports three segments: Automation Solutions ; and Climate Technologies and Tools Home Products , which together comprise the Commercial Residential Solutions business. A summary of the Company's businesses is described below. Automation Solutions - enables process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to maximize production, protect personnel and the environment, and optimize their energy efficiency and operating costs through a broad offering of products and integrated solutions, including measurement and analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control software and systems. Commercial Residential Solutions - provides products and solutions that promote energy efficiency, enhance household and commercial comfort, and protect food quality and sustainability through heating, air conditioning and refrigeration technology, as well as a broad range of tools and appliance solutions. The Company sells products and solutions that support customers in a variety of different end markets. Overall, sales by end market were as follows: oil and gas, 19 percent (upstream, 12 percent; midstream, 7 percent); residential, 15 percent; chemical, 11 percent; power, 10 percent; commercial, 9 percent; discrete and industrial, 9 percent; cold chain/refrigeration, 8 percent; refining, 6 percent; life sciences and medical, 3 percent; other, 10 percent. Emerson was incorporated in Missouri in 1890 and has evolved through internal growth and strategic acquisitions. Management has a well-established set of operating mechanisms to manage its business performance and set strategy. The Company also has processes undertaken by management with oversight from the Board of Directors to specifically focus on risks in areas such as cybersecurity, compliance, environmental, financial and reputational, among others. The Company periodically updates, assesses, and monitors its risk exposures, provides timely updates to the Board, and takes actions to mitigate these risks. Acquisitions are an integral component of Emerson's growth and value creation strategy. In 2018, the Company expanded its product offerings within its two businesses. This included the acquisitions of Para digm, a provider of software solutions for the oil and gas industry, and Aventics, a global provider of smart pneumatics technologies, which are reported in Automation Solutions. The Company also made strategic acquisitions to strengthen its Commercial Residential Solutions business, which included Textron's tools and test equipment business, a manufacturer of electrical and utility tools, diagnostics, and test and measurement instruments. In the first quarter of 2018 the Company also completed the sale of its residential storage business. In 2019, the Company acquired several smaller businesses to expand its Automation Solutions product portfolio, which included the acquisition of Machine Automation Solutions (General Electric's former Intelligent Platforms business). In 2020, the Company agreed to acquire Open Systems International, Inc. (closed in early fiscal 2021), a leading operations technology software provider, which will broaden and complement Automation Solutions software portfolio and ability to help customers in the global power industry, and other end markets, transform and digitize operations to more seamlessly incorporate renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency and reliability. Information with respect to acquisition and divestiture activity is set forth in Note 4. These references and all other Note references in this document refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference. See also