ITEM 1 - BUSINESS Emerson ( the Company ) is a global leader that designs and manufactures products and delivers services that bring technology and engineering together to provide innovative solutions for customers in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around the world. Our purpose is to drive innovation that makes the world healthier, safer, smarter and more sustainable. Sales by geographic destination in 2022 were: the Americas, 56 percent; Asia, Middle East Africa, 28 percent (China, 12 percent); and Europe, 16 percent. Portfolio management is an integral component of Emerson's growth and value creation strategy. Over the past 18 months, Emerson has taken significant actions to accelerate the transformation of its portfolio through the completion of strategic acquisitions and divestitures of non-core businesses. These actions were undertaken to create a higher growth and cohesive industrial technology portfolio as a global automation leader serving a diversified set of end markets with differentiated capabilities in intelligent devices and software. The Company s recent portfolio actions include the following transactions. On October 31, 2022, the Company announced an agreement to sell a majority stake in its Climate Technologies business (which constitutes the Climate Technologies segment, excluding Therm-O-Disc which was divested earlier in fiscal 2022) to private equity funds managed by Blackstone ("Blackstone") in a transaction valued at $14.0 billion. Emerson will receive upfront, pre-tax cash proceeds of approximately $9.5 billion and a note of $2.25 billion at close, while retaining a 45 percent non-controlling common equity ownership interest in a new standalone joint venture between Emerson and Blackstone. The Climate Technologies business, which includes the Copeland compressor business and the entire portfolio of products and services across all residential and commercial HVAC and refrigeration end-markets, had fiscal 2022 net sales of approximately $5.0 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of calendar year 2023, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Please refer to our Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 31, 2022, for additional information. On October 31, 2022, the Company completed the divestiture of its InSinkErator business, which manufactures food waste disposers, to Whirlpool Corporation for $3.0 billion. This business had fiscal 2022 net sales of $630 million and is reported in the Tools Home Products segment. On May 16, 2022, the Company completed the combination of two of its stand-alone industrial software businesses, Open Systems International, Inc. and the Geological Simulation Software business (collectively, the Emerson Industrial Software Business ) with Aspen Technology, Inc. ( Heritage AspenTech ) to create New AspenTech , a diversified, high-performance industrial software leader with greater scale, capabilities and technologies (hereinafter referred to as "AspenTech"). The Company contributed the Emerson Industrial Software Business and $6.0 billion in cash to Heritage AspenTech stockholders and upon closing of the transaction owned 55 percent of the outstanding shares of AspenTech common stock (on a fully diluted basis). On a pro forma basis, AspenTech had fiscal 2022 net sales of $1.1 billion. On July 27, 2022, AspenTech entered into an agreement to acquire Micromine, a global leader in design and operational solutions for the mining industry, for AU $900 (approximately $623 USD based on exchange rates when the transaction was announced). The transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar 2022, subject to various regulatory approvals. On May 31, 2022, the Company completed the divestiture of its Therm-O-Disc sensing and protection technologies business, which was reported in the Climate Technologies segment, to an affiliate of One Rock Capital Partners, LLC. Further information regarding acquisition and divestiture activity is set forth in Note 4. For fiscal year 2022, the Company reported four segments: Automation Solutions ; AspenTech; and Climate Technologies and Tools Home Products, which together comprise the Commercial Residential Solutions business. A summary of the Company's businesses is described below. Automation Solutions - enables process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to maximize production, protect personnel and the environment, and optimize their energy efficiency and operating costs through a broad 1 offering of products and integrated solutions, including measurement and analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control software and systems. AspenTech - provides asset optimization software that enables industrial manufacturers to design, operate, and maintain their operations for maximum performance, creating value through improved operational efficiency and productivity, reduced downtime and safety risks, and minimizing energy consumption and emissions. Commercial Residential Solutions - provides products and solutions that promote energy efficiency and sustainability, enhance household and commercial comfort, and protect food quality and sustainability through heating, air conditioning and refrigeration technology, as well as a broad range of tools that promote safety and productivity. The Company sells products and solutions that support customers in a variety of end markets. Overall, sales by end market were as follows: Commercial, 19 percent; residential, 16 percent; energy, 15 percent; chemical, 10 percent; power renewables, 9 percent; general industries, 9 percent; discrete, 8 percent; hybrid, 6 percent; other, 8 percent. Emerson was incorporated in Missouri in 1890 and has evolved through internal growth and strategic acquisitions. Management has a well-established set of operating mechanisms to manage its business performance and set strategy. The Company also has processes undertaken by management with oversight from the Board of Directors to specifically focus on risks in areas such as cybersecurity, compliance, legal, environmental, financial and reputational, among others. The Company periodically updates, assesses, and monitors its risk exposures, provides timely updates to the Board, and takes actions to mitigate these risks. All Note references in this document refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference. See also