ITEM 1 - BUSINESS Emerson ( the Company ) is a global technology and software company that provides innovative solutions for customers in a wide range of end markets around the world. Through its leading automation portfolio, Emerson helps process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers optimize operations, protect personnel, reduce emissions and achieve their sustainability goals. Sales by geographic destination in 2024 were: the Americas, 50 percent ; Asia, Middle East Africa, 30 percent (China, 11 percent ); and Europe, 20 percent . Portfolio management is an integral component of Emerson's growth and value creation strategy. Over the past three years, the Company has taken significant actions to accelerate the transformation of its portfolio through the completion of strategic acquisitions and divestitures of non-core businesses. These actions were undertaken to create a cohesive, higher growth and higher margin industrial technology portfolio as a global automation leader serving a diversified set of end markets. The Company s recent portfolio actions include the following transactions (note that all d ollars in Item 1 are in millions, except where noted) : On October 11, 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of National Instruments Corporation ("NI") at an equity value of $8.2 billion. NI, which provides software-connected automated test and measurement systems that enable enterprises to bring products to market faster and at a lower cost, had revenues of approximately $1.7 billion and pretax earnings of approximately $170 for the 12 months ended September 30, 2023. On May 31, 2023, the Company completed the sale of a majority stake in its Climate Technologies business (which constitutes the former Climate Technologies segment, excluding Therm-O-Disc which was divested earlier in 2022; the new standalone business is named Copeland) to private equity funds managed by Blackstone in a $14.0 billion transaction. Emerson received upfront, pre-tax cash proceeds of approximately $9.7 billion and a note receivable with a face value of $2.25 billion, while retaining a 40 percent non-controlling common equity interest in a new standalone joint venture between Emerson and Blackstone. Subsequently, in August 2024, Emerson sold its 40 percent non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland to private equity funds managed by Blackstone for $1.5 billion and sold the note receivable to Copeland for $1.9 billion. On October 31, 2022, the Company completed the divestiture of its InSinkErator business, which manufactures food waste disposers, to Whirlpool Corporation for $3.0 billion. On May 31, 2022 the Company completed the divestiture of its Therm-O-Disc sensing and protection technologies business to an affiliate of One Rock Capital Partners, LLC. On May 16, 2022, the Company completed the transactions contemplated by its definitive agreement with Aspen Technology, Inc. ("Heritage AspenTech") to contribute two of Emerson's stand-alone industrial software businesses, Open Systems International, Inc. and the Geological Simulation Software business (collectively, the Emerson Industrial Software Business ), along with approximately $6.0 billion in cash to Heritage AspenTech stockholders, to create "New AspenTech", a diversified, high-performance industrial software leader with greater scale, capabilities and technologies (defined as "AspenTech" herein). Upon closing of the transaction, Emerson owned 55 percent of the outstanding shares of AspenTech common stock (on a fully diluted basis). AspenTech had 2023 net sales of $1.04 billion. On November 5, 2024, the Company announced a proposal to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of AspenTech not already owned by Emerson for $240 per share in cash, which implies a fully diluted market capitalization for AspenTech of $15.3 billion and an enterprise value of $15.1 billion. The Company currently owns approximately 57 percent of AspenTech's outstanding shares of common stock. The proposal is not subject to any financing condition and would be financed from cash on hand, committed lines of credit and/or other available sources of financing. Also on November 5, 2024, the Company announced that it is exploring strategic alternatives, including a cash sale, for its Safety Productivity segment. No assurance can be given whether the proposal or the review will lead to one or more transactions or as to any of the terms or conditions of such transactions. See Item 1A - "Risk Factors" for additional information. 1 Further information regarding acquisition and divestiture activity is set forth in Notes 4 and 5. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This includes the equity method losses related to the Company's non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland, which were reported since May 2023 in Other deductions, net, and have now been reclassified and reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented (see Note 5). Beginning in 2024, the Company reports NI (which is now referred to as Test Measurement) as a new segment in the Software and Control business group. As a result of its portfolio transformation discussed above, the Company now reports seven segments and two business groups, which are highlighted in the table below (see Note 20 for further details). INTELLIGENT DEVICES SOFTWARE AND CONTROL Final Control Control Systems Software Measurement Analytical Test Measurement Discrete Automation AspenTech Safety Productivity The Company's comprehensive automation portfolio includes intelligent devices, control systems and design and optimization software solutions to support a diverse set of industries and infrastructure, including process industries (such as chemical, power renewables and energy), hybrid industries (life sciences, metals mining, food beverage, pulp paper, and others), discrete industries (including automotive, medical, packaging and semiconductor) and more. Emerson was incorporated in Missouri in 1890 and has evolved through internal growth and strategic acquisitions. Management has a well-established set of operating mechanisms to manage its business performance and set strategy. The Company also has processes undertaken by management with oversight from the Board of Directors to specifically focus on risks in areas such as cybersecurity, compliance, legal, sustainability, financial and reputational, among others. The Company periodically updates, assesses, and monitors its risk exposures, provides timely updates to the Board, and takes actions to mitigate these risks. All Note references in this document refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference. See also