ITEM 1. Business Overview: Powering the World s Digital Leaders Equinix is the world's digital infrastructure company TM . Digital leaders harness our trusted platform to bring together and interconnect the foundational infrastructure that powers their success. We enable our customers to access all the right places, partners and possibilities they need to accelerate their advantage. Platform Equinix combines a global footprint of International Business Exchange (IBX ) and xScale data centers in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") regions, interconnection solutions, digital offerings, unique business and digital ecosystems and expert consulting and support. Equinix was incorporated on June 22, 1998, as a Delaware corporation and operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Al Avery and Jay Adelson founded Equinix as a network-neutral, multi-tenant data center ("MTDC") provider, where competing networks could connect and share data traffic to help scale the rapid growth of the early internet. The company s name, Equinix (composed from the words "equality", "neutrality" and "internet exchange"), reflects that vision. The founders also believed they not only had the opportunity but also the responsibility to create a company that would be the steward of some of the most important digital infrastructure assets in the world. Over two and a half decades later, we have expanded upon that vision to build Platform Equinix, which we believe is unmatched in scale and reach. Our interconnected data centers around the world allow our customers to bring together and interconnect the infrastructure they need to fast-track their digital advantage. With Equinix, they can scale with agility, accelerate the launch of digital offerings, deliver world-class experiences and multiply their value. We enable them to differentiate by distributing infrastructure and removing the distance between clouds, users and applications in order to reduce latency and deliver a superior customer, partner and employee experience. The Equinix global platform, and the quality of our IBX and xScale data centers, interconnection offerings and edge solutions, have enabled us to establish a critical mass of customers. As more customers choose Platform Equinix for bandwidth cost and performance reasons, it benefits their suppliers and business partners to colocate in the same data centers and connect directly with each other. This adjacency creates a network effect that attracts new customers, continuously enhances our existing customers' value and enables them to capture further economic and performance benefits from our offerings. 5 Table of Contents In 2023, we opened nine new data centers, inclusive of new xScale sites via our joint ventures. Our new data center openings included sites in the following metros: Bogot , Dubai, Dublin, Frankfurt, Madrid, Milan, Montreal, Tokyo and Washington D.C. When including five additional data centers which opened in January 2024, this results in an increase in our total number of data center facilities to 260. 2023 highlights include: In February, we announced plans to build and operate a second IBX data center in Barcelona, Spain. The new site will serve as a strategic connection point for data communications between Europe, Africa and the Middle East, with Barcelona quickly becoming a vital subsea hub. In June, we announced our plans for expansion into Malaysia, with an additional investment of more than $100 million to help businesses capitalize on the country s digital transformation and economic growth. We opened our first data center in Kuala Lumpur in January 2024, which followed our expansion announcement to enter Malaysia with a data center in Johor. In August, we announced our plans for expansion of our footprint in Mumbai, India, to address the country s rising demand for digital infrastructure. The new facility, called MB4, will bring Equinix s total data centers in the country to four. MB4 will offer expanded connectivity options to major telecommunications networks along with Metro Connect availability to the highly connected Equinix data center sites of MB1 and MB2. The first phase of MB4 is expected to open in Q1 2024 and will provide an initial capacity of 350 cabinets. When fully built out, the facility is expected to provide 700 cabinets. In September, we opened our new IBX data center in Montreal, Quebec ("MT2") to support customer expansions in one of the fastest-growing edge metros in the world. MT2 is our second data center in the metro and brings the full value of our platform and portfolio of solutions to Canadian businesses, including those in the rapidly growing financial services, gaming and aerospace sectors. We also announced an expanded relationship with Southern Cross Cables Limited ("Southern Cross") in September, which will provide a key U.S.-based interconnectivity access point for the Southern Cross NEXT ("SX NEXT") submarine cable system. SX NEXT leverages our next-generation cable landing station ("CLS") architecture, enabling rapid provisioning and cost savings. Industry Trends: Ecosystems unlock digital opportunity The digital economy is growing and evolving dynamically. There is a constant influx of new digital product and service providers and related digital consumers, resulting in new ecosystems forming across all industries. Leading organizations are using digital infrastructure as a strong foundation for scalability and flexibility. They are scaling into more markets, with greater flexibility, having invested in cutting-edge capabilities. Additionally, their participation in digital marketplaces offers significant advantages. Several trends have emerged as a result of these changing business models. These trends include: The digital presence trend underpins businesses prioritization of transformation to engage and deliver value electronically. To compete in the digital economy, organizations are shifting to digital solutions. The majority of global growth in Gross Domestic Product ("GDP") and revenue is coming from digital services. Digital revenue sources will be the primary drivers of economic growth in the next decade. As companies strive to shift from traditional to digital services, only half of companies analyzed, as shown by the Global Interconnection Index 2024 ("GXI"), a market study published by Equinix, are taking advantage of this opportunity. The GXI data shows that many enterprises are expanding from being consumers to providers of digital services, and not all organizations are moving fast enough. 6 Table of Contents The digital participation trend shows that more companies are leveraging digital ecosystems to collaborate and offer services back into the marketplaces faster than ever before. Each industry is growing its own forms of electronic exchange. Data in the GXI shows that companies are tapping into the sharing economy to create new revenue streams, showing a rapid growth curve, while fast followers (companies replicating what digital leaders are doing) are shifting gears to succeed by doubling their ecosystem interactions doing more with less investment. The digital proximity trend indicates that companies are bringing their capabilities closer to business operations globally for differentiated value and revenue benefits. Additionally, as data grows exponentially, it is being distributed in proximity to where business happens. Companies need to make faster decisions, at greater scale and complexity, with more sources of data. As shown in the GXI, industries are gaining competitive advantage by investing in edge technologies. The sustainability trend reveals market expectations and industry regulations are making organizations prioritize sustainability and hold themselves and their business partners accountable. Sustainable businesses rely on innovation, sustainable technology and efficient digital practices to reduce emissions and achieve net-zero goals. Leaders are involving their supply chain partners, including data centers, to ensure they reduce carbon emissions. Companies also are using more efficient technologies to strengthen a sustainable foundation and scale business. Technology adoption trends like composable business--with companies leveraging as-a-Service offerings for commoditized functions and the emergence of artificial intelligence ("AI") ecosystems to improve efficiency and productivity are also strong trends in the market. These trends are accelerating the need for companies like Equinix that can provide a secure, agile global business platform that leverages digital interconnection or private data exchange to deliver real-time interactions around the world. As part of their digital transformation, businesses in most industries are shifting their centralized IT infrastructures to the edge to bring digital solutions closer to users for better performance, which has become a significant driver of digital business value. To realize the full potential of the edge, IT organizations require greater interconnection bandwidth. Interconnection bandwidth is defined as the total capacity provisioned to privately and directly exchange traffic, with a diverse set of partners and providers, at distributed IT exchange points inside carrier-neutral colocation data centers. Private interconnection capacity between businesses, as reported in GXI 2024, is anticipated to grow at a compound annual growth rate ("CAGR") of 34% by 2026, potentially reaching 33,578 terabits per second of data exchanged annually. Worldwide Interconnection Bandwidth Capacity CAGR (2022 - 2026) in Terabits per Second (Tbps) Source: GXI 2024 Equinix Business Proposition: To be the platform where the world comes together, enabling the innovations that enrich our work, life and planet In 2023, we continued to build new digital offerings and data center offerings to further our vision to power the world s digital leaders. On Platform Equinix, digital leaders can reach the most strategic global markets with the largest ecosystem of digital partners, with infrastructure that assembles and deploys virtually in minutes. We enable 7 Table of Contents competitive advantage for our customers and partners by creating the foundational infrastructure capabilities that power worldwide businesses. We offer a comprehensive, integrated suite of data center and digital solutions and products to over 10,000 enterprise and service provider customers worldwide. The following are the leading revenue-generating products and other offerings that collectively make up Platform Equinix: Data Center Offerings Our global, state-of-the-art data centers meet strict standards of security, reliability, certification and sustainability. Offerings in these data centers are typically billed based on the space and power a customer consumes, are delivered under a fixed duration contract and generate monthly recurring revenue ("MRR"). Our footprint consists of 250+ data centers worldwide: IBX Data Centers are our vendor-neutral colocation data centers worldwide, providing our customers with secure, reliable and robust environments (including space and power) that are necessary to aggregate and distribute information and connect digital and business ecosystems globally. IBX data centers provide access to vital ecosystems where enterprises, network, cloud and SaaS providers, and business partners, can directly and securely interconnect to each other. xScale Data Centers are designed to serve the unique core workload deployment needs of a targeted group of hyperscale companies, which include the world's largest cloud service providers. With xScale data centers, hyperscale customers add to their core hyperscale data center deployments and existing customer access points at Equinix, allowing streamlined expansion with a single global vendor. Equinix colocation offerings include a suite of comprehensive solutions that provide all the components required by a customer to house its IT infrastructure (or equipment). These offerings are designed to speed and streamline digital transformation and data center deployments for our customers. Private Cages are typically designed and built to order for a single customer, with space assigned based on purchased power allocations and planned cabinet quantity. A cage typically includes steel mesh walls with a locking door, interconnection provision such as a demarcation rack with patch panels, and cabling systems such as a ladder rack and fiber raceway. Available security accessories include dedicated cameras, biometric hand scanners and more. Secure Cabinets are steel-framed cabinets sized to industry standards, with lockable, fully ventilated doors, and are typically configured to order. Secure Cabinets provide a private, secure, smaller-footprint alternative to a Private Cage. Each cabinet includes an integrated, interconnection-ready demarcation panel and power circuitry sufficient to support planned utilization requirements. Secure cabinets are typically housed in a shared, secured cage within the data center facility. Secure Cabinet Express are ready-for-service Secure Cabinets that are pre-configured to an Equinix recommended, and most common, cabinet configuration. This configuration fits the majority of modern IT deployment requirements, providing a simplified and globally consistent colocation module for cabinet-sized deployments. 8 Table of Contents Equinix offers a variety of enabling solutions that support a customer's need to implement, operate and maintain its colocated deployments. These solutions include both on-consumption and subscription services which may generate MRR as well as non-recurring revenue ("NRR"). Equinix SmartView is a fully integrated monitoring software that provides customers visibility into the operating data relevant to their specific Equinix footprint as if they were in-house. The software provides online access to real-time environmental and operating data through the Equinix Customer Portal or via either REST (application programming interfaces ("APIs") that provide customers the ability to retrieve information about their assets from every IBX location) or streaming API integrations. With real-time alerts and configurable reporting, Equinix SmartView allows customers to maintain their IBX operations and plan for future growth. Equinix Smart Hands provides around-the-clock, on-site operational support service for remote management, installation and troubleshooting of customer data center equipment. Using Equinix IBX data center technicians, Smart Hands allows customers to manage their Platform Equinix data center operations from anywhere in the world. Equinix Smart Build ("ESB") provides customers with an easy way to accelerate and simplify world-class data center deployments with expert support. ESBs are repeatable, proven processes that address larger, more complex data center jobs, including installation and implementation of new builds and planned migrations. ESB practices deliver Equinix expertise in colocation design to optimize our customers data center needs, including structured cabling, labeling and documentation, procurement recommendations and coordination, and secure de-installation. Interconnection Offerings Our interconnection solutions connect businesses directly, securely and dynamically within and between our data centers across our global platform. These solutions are typically billed based on the outbound connections from a customer and generate MRR. Equinix Fabric provides secure, on-demand, software-defined interconnection. Built specifically for digital infrastructure, Equinix Fabric enables businesses to connect globally to their choice of thousands of networking, storage, compute and application service providers in the industry s largest infrastructure ecosystem. As the foundation of Platform Equinix s interconnection capability, Equinix Fabric also enables customers to quickly and easily connect between the physical and virtual digital infrastructures they have deployed in Equinix data centers globally. Equinix Fabric Cloud Router makes it easy to connect applications and data across different clouds. With high-performance and secure private connections, protecting data from exposure to the public internet, these enterprise-grade connections offer virtually unlimited bandwidth and built-in resiliency. Fabric Cloud Router also reduces networking costs, lowers cloud egress charges and enables elastic bandwidth consumption so customers pay for only what they need. Cross Connects provide a point-to-point cable link between two Equinix customers in the same data center. Cross Connects deliver fast, convenient, affordable and highly reliable connectivity and data exchange with business partners and service providers within the Equinix ecosystem. Equinix Internet Exchange enables networks, content providers and large enterprises to exchange internet traffic through the largest global peering solution. Service providers can aggregate traffic to multiple counterparties, called peers, on one physical port and handle multiple small peers while moving high-traffic peers to private interconnections. This reduces latency for end users when accessing content and applications. Equinix Internet Access is an agile, scalable, resilient and high-performing internet access solution. With multiple upstream Tier 1 providers per metro, connections to all Equinix and major third-party internet exchanges, and over 300 private peering relationships, it delivers superior availability and performance. It serves as a one-stop shop for businesses, offering both physical and virtual connection options with Equinix Fabric to deliver primary and secondary internet access solutions. Available in 50+ markets, it allows for scalable bandwidth to meet growing usage needs, empowering businesses in the digital age. Fiber Connect provides dark fiber links between customers and partners between multiple Equinix data centers. Fiber Connect enables fast, convenient and affordable integration with partners, customers and service providers across the global Equinix digital ecosystem. It supports highly reliable, extremely low-latency communication, system integration and data exchange. 9 Table of Contents Digital Offerings Our edge solutions help businesses rapidly deploy as a Service networking, security and hardware across our global data center footprint as an alternative to buying, owning and managing the physical infrastructure. Our edge solutions are typically billed based on the number of instances and the capacity used by a customer and generate MRR. Network Edge allows customers to modernize networks within minutes, by deploying network functions virtualization ("NFV") from multiple vendors across Equinix metros. Companies can select, deploy and connect virtual network solutions at the edge quickly, with no additional hardware requirements. Equinix Metal allows enterprises, SaaS companies and digital service providers to provision interconnected bare metal resources in minutes instead of months, while reducing the capital expenditures and operational requirements of owning hardware. They can also reduce cloud costs while retaining the flexibility and operational expenditures of cloud solutions via on-demand, reserved or spot market capacity in Equinix s global data centers using the Equinix Metal portal or DevOps-friendly APIs and integrations. DevOps, a combination of "development" and "operations," aligns collaboration between software development ("Dev") and IT operations ("Ops") skills and experiences to build, test and deploy APIs and other functionalities quickly. Competition While a large number of enterprises and service providers, such as hyperscale cloud service providers, own their own data centers, we believe the industry is shifting away from single-tenant solutions to customers outsourcing some or all of their IT housing and interconnection requirements to third-party facilities, such as those operated by Equinix. This shift is being accelerated by the increasing adoption of hybrid multicloud architectures and the adoption of artificial intelligence. Historically, the outsourcing market was served by large telecommunications carriers that bundled their products and services with their colocation offerings. The data center market landscape has evolved to include private and vendor-neutral MTDC providers, public and private cloud providers, managed infrastructure and application hosting providers, and systems integrators. It is estimated that Equinix is one of more than 2,200 companies that provide MTDC offerings around the world. The global MTDC market is highly fragmented. Each of these data center solutions providers can bundle various colocation, interconnection and network offerings, outsourced IT infrastructure solutions and managed services. We believe that this outsourcing trend has accelerated and is likely to continue to accelerate in the coming years, especially in light of the movement to digital business, the use of multiple cloud service providers, and the adoption of artificial intelligence. Equinix is differentiated in this market by being able to offer customers a global platform that reaches over 30 countries and contains the industry s largest and most active ecosystem of partners in our sites, including access to a leading share of cloud on-ramps, and an increasingly diverse ecosystem of networks and cloud and IT service providers. This ecosystem creates a network effect, which improves performance and lowers the cost for our customers, enabling them to become digital leaders, and is a significant source of competitive advantage for Equinix. Additionally, our digital solutions portfolio enables customers to bring together physical and programmable technologies like compute, storage, network and applications to build a foundation for their company's digital operations. Customers Our customers include telecommunications carriers, mobile and other network services providers, cloud and IT services providers, digital media and content providers, financial services companies, and global enterprise ecosystems in various industries. We provide each company access to a choice of business partners and solutions based on their colocation, interconnection and managed IT service needs, and delivered 99.999%+ operational uptime across our global data centers in 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we had over 10,000 customers worldwide. No one customer made up 10% or more of our total business revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023. 10 Table of Contents The following companies represent some of our leading customers and partners: We serve our customers with a direct sales force and channel marketing program. We organize our sales force by customer type, as well as by establishing a sales presence in diverse geographic regions, which enables efficient servicing of the customer base from a network of regional offices. We also support our customers with a global customer care organization. Human Capital As of December 31, 2023, we had 13,151 employees worldwide with 5,953 based in the Americas, 4,267 based in EMEA and 2,931 based in Asia-Pacific. Of those employees, 5,617 employees were in engineering and operations, 2,089 employees were in sales and marketing and 5,445 employees were in management, finance and administration. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 72% of our workforce identified as men, approximately 27% identified as women and less than 1% declined to identify. Women's representation in leadership (defined as VP and above) increased year-over-year to 32%. At Equinix, we strive to build a culture where every employee, every day, can say I m Safe, I Belong and I Matter and where our workforce, at all levels, reflects and represents the communities in which we operate. Our objective is to continue to make our culture a critical competitive advantage, engaging every leader and every employee in the process. To ensure we are upholding our core corporate values and making progress towards our aspirational goals, we monitor employee satisfaction through a quarterly pulse survey, which is one of our listening mechanisms. In 2023, employee satisfaction scores remained steady between 83-84 out of 100 each quarter, resulting in an average score of 83 for Equinix, six points higher than the benchmark score of the top 25th percentile of other companies. Managers use their quarterly pulse survey results to engage in dialogue with their teams about what is top of mind for our employees and how we can do better. Attracting, developing and retaining talent at all levels is vital to our continued success and we offer industry competitive compensation and benefits, along with development opportunities to help every employee achieve their full potential. We continue to benefit from talent sourcing programs such as our global new-to-career programs as well as pathways programs for veterans and women returning to the workforce. In 2023, we continued to enhance our portfolio of development programs for our employees and continued use of a system-enabled approach to goal setting, development planning and performance assessment to support objectivity and accountability in our talent management process. We offer development tools and opportunities to our employees such as online learning, manager training, including on bias mitigation and cultural humility, professional coaching and 360-degree assessments for eligible employees as well as our leadership program specifically designed for high potential employees at the Director level and above. We believe in equitable pay and equitable opportunity at every level of the organization. Equinix remains committed to ensuring we have consistent practices in place to recognize, reward and promote all employees, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or other protected class. Equinix operates a rigorous governance framework to manage pay and other compensation elements to ensure that all reward decisions are made equitably and without discrimination or bias. All roles are mapped and graded to one consistent global organizational framework. Each grade has a specific pay range created by benchmarking against the external market in the country in which the role is located. This global framework is also used to determine target levels for annual 11 Table of Contents bonuses and long-term incentives. We strive to annually update our market data globally where information is available. We have continued to work towards integrating diversity, inclusion and belonging ("DIB") into every aspect of how we run our business. In 2020, we embarked on a multi-year DIB strategy with governance through a DIB Council chaired by our CEO and CHRO, and in partnership with our Sustainability Program Office, that oversees our progress on ESG matters. Our DIB strategy focuses on attracting, developing and retaining a diverse, global workforce; building leadership capability and accountability; and empowering our people to bring DIB to life. We have built multiple pathways to reach new talent from diverse communities. In 2023, we continued to forge partnerships and invest in tools and systems to grow and support our inclusive hiring practices and launch inclusive talent marketing efforts to reach a wider candidate pool more effectively. For example, in 2023 our Talent Acquisition Team welcomed our first neurodiverse intern cohort in partnership with Disability:IN and our CEO signed a pledge committing to disability inclusion. The Global Military Pathways program continues to show success with military candidates and hires across all regions and our Recruiting Pathways programs continue to focus on finding talent with skills and experience gained from adjacent industries and experiences to enrich the diversity of thought and experience on our teams. We have also embedded diversity and inclusive behavior competencies in our leadership profiles and added coaching tools as well as manager training on leading inclusive teams to our development program. Our employee connection networks ("EECNs") are integral to our DIB strategy and play an important role in creating belonging and advocating for the needs and goals of communities with common identities, cultures or backgrounds. Each of our nine EECNs represents an identity/community that is marginalized or shares unique challenges. Collaborating with one another, our EECNs work together to shape, support, and execute plans aligned with our shared vision and values at Equinix. Some of our EECN leaders sit on Equinix EECN and DIB Councils where they represent their communities and share input based on their lived-experiences to influence discussions and decisions around business policies and strategies. In 2023, we strengthened our dedication to our EECN leaders by hosting an inaugural EECN Summit where leaders participated in panels with internal and external speakers, resource fairs and strategy sessions. We also introduced a recognition program that provides acknowledgement, exposure, compensation and developmental opportunities to recognize EECN members who have gone above-and-beyond in leading their respective EECNs. EECNs have continued to be a leading contributor to a positive work environment, employee satisfaction and overall organizational success. We also recognize that creating the best workplace and culture we can requires a global effort with localized awareness and approaches. In 2020, we launched WeAreEquinix employee teams empowered to create, localize and promote purpose, inclusion and belonging for their locations across the world. Through live and virtual events, campaigns, and collaboration with the business and their local communities, these volunteer leaders create opportunities to engage in the following areas: