ITEM 1. Business The words "Equinix", "we", "our", "ours", "us" and the "Company" refer to Equinix, Inc. All statements in this discussion that are not historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding Equinix's "expectations", "beliefs", "intentions", "strategies", "forecasts", "predictions", "plans" or the like. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Equinix cautions investors that there can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Equinix expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Equinix's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Overview: Where Opportunity Connects Equinix, Inc. connects enterprises and service providers directly to their customers and partners across the world's most interconnected data center and interconnection platform in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"). Platform Equinix combines a global footprint of state-of-the-art International Business Exchange ("IBX ") data centers, interconnection solutions, edge services, unique business and digital ecosystems, and expert consulting and support. Equinix was incorporated on June 22, 1998 as a Delaware corporation and operates as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes ("REIT"). Al Avery and Jay Adelson founded Equinix as a vendor-neutral multi-tenant data center ("MTDC") provider where competing networks could connect and share data traffic to help scale the rapid growth of the early internet. The company s name, Equinix (Equality, Neutrality and Internet Exchange), reflects that vision. The founders also believed they not only had the opportunity but also the responsibility to create a company that would be the steward of some of the most important digital infrastructure assets in the world. Two decades later, we have expanded upon that vision to build Platform Equinix, with unmatched scale and reach. Our interconnected data centers around the world allow our customers to increase information and application delivery performance for users, and quickly deploy distributed IT infrastructures and access business and digital ecosystems, all while significantly reducing costs. The Equinix global platform and the quality of our IBX data centers, interconnection offerings and edge services have enabled us to establish a critical mass of customers. As more customers choose Platform Equinix, for bandwidth cost and performance reasons it benefits their suppliers and business partners to colocate in the same data centers and connect directly with each other. This adjacency creates a network effect that attracts new customers and enables our existing customers to capture further economic and performance benefits from our offerings. 3 Table of Contents In 2019, Equinix entered into a joint venture in the form of a limited liability partnership with GIC Private Limited, Singapore s sovereign wealth fund ( GIC ) (the Joint Venture ), to develop and operate xScale data centers in Europe to serve the needs of the growing hyperscale data center market, including the world's largest cloud service providers. xScale data centers are engineered to meet the technical and operational requirements and price points of core hyperscale workload deployments and also offer access to Equinix's comprehensive suite of interconnection and edge services. These services will tie into the hyperscale companies' existing access points at Equinix, thereby increasing the speed of connectivity to their existing and future enterprise customers. This will enable hyperscale companies to consolidate core and access point deployments into one global provider to streamline and simplify their rapid growth. In 2019, Equinix opened ten new data centers, invested in two xScale data centers, added capacity in 22 markets and expanded the total number of IBX and xScale data center facilities to 210, including our acquisition of three data centers in Mexico from Axtel S.A.B. de C.V. in early 2020. 2019 and early 2020 highlights include: Equinix formed the Joint Venture with GIC to develop and operate xScale data centers in Europe. Data center expansions included five new IBX sites in the following metros: Seoul, Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Helsinki, with an additional new market entry announced in Muscat, Oman. Equinix closed transactions that will broaden its Europe and Latin America markets: One data center in Amsterdam acquired from Switch Datacenters (closed in April 2019), bringing Equinix's Amsterdam footprint to a total of eight Amsterdam facilities to serve European markets. Three data centers in Mexico acquired from Axtel S.A.B. de C.V. on January 8, 2020, bringing Equinix s Latin America footprint to ten data centers. Equinix announced an agreement to acquire leading bare metal automation company Packet Host, Inc. on January 14, 2020. After the closing of this acquisition, which is expected in 2020, bare metal as a service will allow enterprises and services providers to avoid the capital expenditures and operational requirements of owning hardware by accessing bare metal servers on demand in Equinix s global data centers. In support of our growing business, we ve added technology leaders to the Equinix team. In September 2019, Dr. Justin Dustzadeh joined us as Chief Technology Officer and, in October 2019 and January 2020, respectively, we expanded the expertise of the Equinix Board of Directors (now 11 members) with the appointment of Sandra Rivera of Intel Corporation and Adaire Fox-Martin of SAP. Industry Trends: Taking Digital Business to the Edge Digital transformation is changing where and how businesses deploy and deliver IT services to employees and is creating new digital business models for partners and customers. At the same time, macroeconomic, technology and regulatory trends are driving complexity and risk that must be addressed in multiple locations for companies to effectively compete in the global digital economy. These trends include: Digital business transformation: Real-time interactions between people, things, locations, clouds and data require proximity and direct connections. Urbanization: This is creating large, global population centers which require companies to locate digital services close to users to deliver great user experiences. These same concentrations of people provide an economy of scale which makes distributing applications, data, content and networking to serve these locations cost effective. Cybersecurity: A cybersecurity breach is one of the most serious risks facing companies today, and many of the most serious breaches actually occur via a penetration of a company s business partners networks. To protect against this, businesses need to distribute their security controls out to the edge where most traffic exchange is happening. Data compliance: To meet new regulations, companies need to deploy data storage, analytics and clouds within the same jurisdiction, and then replicate this across multiple global locations. Business ecosystems: Digital trade flows involve an increasing variety of customers, partners and employees. To enable this, companies deploy a digital presence in close physical proximity to an industry exchange point and then connect to it directly. In the aggregate, these form a business ecosystem. These ecosystems are expanding in depth and number. 4 Table of Contents These trends are accelerating the need for a secure, compliant and responsive global business platform that enables the private interconnection of people, locations, clouds, data and things in multiple locations to deliver real-time interactions and data exchange around the world. As part of their digital transformation, businesses in most industries are shifting their centralized IT infrastructures to the edge to bring digital services closer to users for better performance, which has become a significant driver of digital business value. To realize the full potential of the edge, IT organizations require greater interconnection bandwidth. Interconnection bandwidth is defined as the total capacity provisioned to privately and directly exchanged traffic, with a diverse set of partners and providers, at distributed IT exchange points inside carrier-neutral colocation data centers. Private interconnection capacity between businesses, as reported in the third annual Global Interconnection Index ("GXI"), a market study published by Equinix, is anticipated to grow by 51% between 2018 and 2022, reaching 13,300+ terabits per second, which is double the projected peak of global internet traffic and could be more than 13 times the volume of global internet traffic, or 53 zettabytes annually. Worldwide Interconnection Bandwidth Capacity Growth (2018 - 2022) in Terabits per Second (Tbps) Source: GXI Volume 3 Equinix Business Proposition: Reach Everywhere, Connect Everyone, Integrate Everything In 2019, we continued to build new data center, interconnection and edge services capabilities that will further our vision for the future of Platform Equinix, a future that will provide our customers with the ability to reach everywhere, connect with everyone and integrate everything on their digital transformation journey. Equinix offers a comprehensive, integrated suite of data center, interconnection and edge services and products to more than 9,700 enterprise and service provider customers worldwide. The following are the leading revenue generating product and other offerings that collectively make up Platform Equinix: 5 Table of Contents Data Centers Solutions Our global, state-of-the-art data centers meet strict standards of security, reliability, certification and sustainability. Offerings in these data centers are typically billed based on the space and power a customer consumes, are delivered under a fixed duration contract and generate monthly recurring revenue ("MRR"). IBX Data Centers - The more than 200 IBX vendor-neutral colocation data centers worldwide provide our customers with secure, reliable and robust environments that are necessary to aggregate and distribute information and connect digital and business ecosystems globally. IBX data centers provide access to vital ecosystems where enterprises, network, cloud and SaaS providers, and business partners directly and securely interconnect to each other. xScale Data Centers - xScale data centers are designed to serve the unique core workload deployment needs of a targeted group of hyperscale companies, which include the world's largest cloud service providers. With xScale data centers, hyperscale customers add to their core hyperscale data center deployments and existing customer access points at Equinix, allowing streamlined expansion with a single global vendor. Interconnection Solutions Our interconnection solutions connect businesses directly, securely and dynamically within and between our data centers across our global platform. Our interconnection services are typically billed based on the outbound connections from a customer and generate MRR. Cross Connects - Provide a point-to-point cable link between two customers in the same IBX data center. They deliver fast, convenient, affordable and highly reliable connectivity and data exchange with business partners and service providers within the Equinix ecosystem. Equinix Cloud Exchange Fabric ("ECX Fabric ") - Directly, securely and dynamically connects distributed infrastructure and ecosystems across Equinix data centers globally using software-defined interconnection. Customers can establish data center-to-data center network connections on demand between any two ECX Fabric locations within a metro or globally and move information within a dense digital and business ecosystem. Equinix Internet Exchange - Enables networks, content providers and large enterprises to exchange internet traffic through the largest global peering solution. Service providers can aggregate traffic to multiple counterparties, called peers, on one physical port and handle multiple small peers while moving high-traffic peers to private interconnections. This reduces latency for end-users when accessing content and applications. Edge Services Our edge services help businesses rapidly deploy as-a-service networking, security and hardware across our global data center footprint - as an alternative to buying, owning and managing the physical infrastructure. Our edge services are typically billed based on the number of instances and the capacity used by a customer and generate MRR. Network Edge - Allows customers to modernize networks quickly, by deploying network functions virtualization ("NFV") from multiple vendors across Equinix metros. Companies can select, deploy and connect virtual network services at the edge quickly, with no additional hardware requirements. Equinix SmartKey - Helps customers simplify data protection across any cloud architecture via a global SaaS-based, hardware security module management and cryptography service that provides on-premises and hybrid multicloud cloud encryption key management. Bare Metal - Equinix s announced acquisition of Packet on January 14, 2020, once completed, and our own organic bare metal service also in development, are expected to help enterprises more seamlessly deploy hybrid multicloud architectures on Platform Equinix. Enterprises and services providers will be able to avoid the capital expenditures and operational requirements of owning hardware by accessing bare metal servers on demand in Equinix s global data centers. Enablement Offerings Equinix offers a number of remote support and professional services designed to speed and streamline digital transformation and data center deployments for its customers. These services are typically billed based on consumption and generate non-recurring revenue ("NRR"). 6 Table of Contents Equinix Infrastructure Services - Combines Equinix data center expertise with the skills and scale of certified technology partners worldwide. Our colocation expertise helps customers achieve an efficient data center deployment design that optimizes space and enables easy service access. Equinix Professional Services - Helps enterprises and service providers design and deploy IT solutions. Our global teams of network transformation, hybrid multicloud and digital edge solution experts help companies design and manage technology solutions which are deployed on our global platform. Competition While a large number of enterprises and service providers, such as hyperscale cloud service providers, own their own data centers, many others outsource some or all of their IT housing and interconnection requirements in third party facilities, such as those operated by Equinix. Historically, that outsourcing market was served by large telecommunications carriers who bundled their products and services with their colocation offerings. The data center market landscape has evolved to include private and vendor-neutral MTDC providers, hyperscale cloud providers, managed infrastructure and application hosting providers, and systems integrators. It is estimated that Equinix is one of more than 1,200 companies that provide MTDC offerings around the world. The global MTDC market is highly fragmented. Each of these data center solutions providers can bundle various colocation, interconnection and network offerings and outsourced IT infrastructure solutions. We believe that this outsourcing trend is likely to accelerate in the coming years. Equinix is differentiated in this market by being able to offer customers a global platform that reaches 26 countries and contains the industry s largest and most active ecosystem of partners in our sites. This ecosystem creates a network effect which improves performance and lowers cost for our customers and is a significant source of competitive advantage for Equinix. Customers and Partners Equinix customers include telecommunications carriers, mobile and other network services providers, cloud and IT services providers, digital media and content providers, financial services companies, and global enterprise ecosystems in various industries. We provide each company access to a choice of business partners and solutions based on their colocation, interconnection and managed IT service needs, and delivered 99.9999% operational uptime across our global data centers in 2019. As of December 31, 2019, we had more than 9,700 customers worldwide. No one customer made up 10% or more of our total business revenues in the year ended December 31, 2019. The following companies represent some of our leading customers and partners: We serve our customers with a direct sales force and channel marketing program. We organize our sales force by customer type, as well as by establishing a sales presence in diverse geographic regions, which enables efficient servicing of the customer base from a network of regional offices. We also support our customers with a global customer care organization. 7 Table of Contents Employees, Community and Intellectual Property As the leading global interconnection and data center company, Equinix is dedicated to powering, protecting and connecting the digital world and doing so in a sustainable and responsible way. In 2015, we made a long-term commitment to achieve 100% clean and renewable energy across our global operations. We have made substantial progress against this goal covering over 90% of our footprint worldwide with net-zero carbon emission renewable energy products. As of December 31, 2019 , Equinix had 8,378 employees worldwide with 3,672 based in the Americas, 2,941 based in EMEA and 1,765 based in Asia-Pacific. Of those employees, 3,904 employees were in engineering and operations, 1,521 employees were in sales and marketing and 2,953 employees were in management, finance and administration. Equinix believes its culture is a key differentiator in its ability to attract, retain and motivate its employees. Core to its culture is a commitment to make sure Equinix is a place where everyone can confidently say, I m safe, I belong and I matter. New and expanding programs such as our Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging initiative aim to empower every employee in our company. For example, our Women Leaders Network of over 1,900 employees is driving visibility of women in our workforce and encouraging the emergence of new leaders worldwide. Also, our Equinix Impact program continues to grow, enabling employees to give back to their communities with the support of Equinix, volunteering nearly 14,000 hours to local causes. Equinix owns and maintains intellectual property in the form of trademarks, patents, application programming interfaces, customer portals and a variety of products and other offerings. Our Business Segment Financial Information We currently operate in three reportable segments comprised of our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific geographic regions. Information attributable to each of our reportable segments is set forth in Note 17 within the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available Information We were incorporated in Delaware in June 1998. We are required to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains an internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. You may also obtain copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports, free of charge by visiting the Investor Relations page on our website, www.equinix.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 8 Table of Contents