Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Reserved 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 42 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 42 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 42 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 42 Item 9B. Other Information 44 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 44 PART III. Item 10. Trustees, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 45 Item 11. Executive Compensation 45 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 45 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Trustee Independence 45 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 45 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 46 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 46 EX-4.3 EX-21 EX-23.1 EX-23.2 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-31.3 EX 31.4 EX-32.1 EX-32.2 EX-32.3 EX-32.4 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT 5 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Equity Residential ( EQR ) is committed to creating communities where people thrive. The Company, a member of the S P 500, is focused on the acquisition, development and management of residential properties located in and around dynamic cities that attract affluent long-term renters. ERP Operating Limited Partnership ( ERPOP ) is focused on conducting the multifamily property business of EQR. EQR is a Maryland real estate investment trust ( REIT ) formed in March 1993 and ERPOP is an Illinois limited partnership formed in May 1993. References to the Company, we, us or our mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP. References to the Operating Partnership mean collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP. EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2021 owned an approximate 96.7% ownership interest in, ERPOP. All of the Company s property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and EQR has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in ERPOP. EQR issues equity from time to time, the net proceeds of which it is obligated to contribute to ERPOP, but does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of the assets of the Company, including the Company s ownership interests in its joint ventures. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity. The Company s corporate headquarters is located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates regional property management offices in most of its markets. Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company s segment disclosures. Available Information You may access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statements and any amendments to any of those reports/statements we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) free of charge on our website, www.equityapartments.com . These reports/statements are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The information contained on our website, including any information referred to in this report as being available on our website, is not a part of or incorporated into this report. Business Objectives and Operating and Investing Strategies Overview The Company is one of the largest U.S. publicly-traded owners and operators of high quality rental apartment properties, with an established presence in Boston, New York, Washington, D.C., Southern California (including Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego), San Francisco and Seattle, and an expanding presence in Denver, Atlanta, Dallas/Ft. Worth and Austin. We believe our markets are knowledge centers of the U.S. economy that draw talented workers and employers that drive economic growth in the United States. We believe the locations of our properties in these markets are attractive to these knowledge workers whom we hope to convert into satisfied long-term residents. Equity Residential is committed to creating communities where people thrive. We carry this, our corporate purpose, through our relationships with our customers, our employees, our shareholders and the communities in which we operate. It drives our commitments to sustainability, diversity and inclusion, the total wellbeing of our employees and being a responsible corporate citizen in the communities in which we operate, which has been especially relevant as we faced unprecedented challenges like the novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic. We believe we have created an industry leading operating platform and balance sheet to run our properties. Our employees are focused on delivering remarkable customer service to our residents so they will stay with us longer, be willing to pay higher rent for a great experience and will tell others about how much they love living in an Equity Residential property. We utilize technology and other innovative methods of engagement with our residents to foster relationships and community, improve the resident experience and operate our business more efficiently. We pair that with disciplined balance sheet management that enhances returns and value creation while maintaining flexibility to take advantage of future opportunities. We believe that our stakeholders value stability, liquidity, predictability and accountability and that is the mission to which we remain unwaveringly committed. 6 Table of Contents Despite the challenges we have faced with the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that the long-term prospects for our business remain strong. Our well-located communities are in and around dynamic cities that we believe will continue to attract affluent long-term renters. With the pandemic subsiding and cities reopening, we are seeing strong demand from our affluent resident base , demonstrating the long-term attractiveness of our communities. Investment Strategy The Company s long-term strategy is to invest in apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets with the goal of maximizing our risk-adjusted total returns and balancing current cash flow generation with long-term capital appreciation. We seek to meet this goal by investing in markets that are characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property operations over the long-term. The markets we focus on generally feature one or more of the following characteristics that allow us to drive performance: Large and diverse economic drivers . Our markets are some of the largest cities in the United States. They are markets that generally attract a variety of large and diverse industries and businesses. They include a number of submarkets that are attractive for long-term multifamily ownership. Strong high quality job growth. Our markets attract and create high quality jobs that are often focused in growing areas of the knowledge-based economy. These jobs result in the significant presence and growth in renters that work in the highest earning sectors of the economy, are not rent burdened and are attracted to our type of properties. This creates the ability to raise rents more readily in good economic times and reduces risk during downturns. Many of these workers are employed in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, or STEM jobs, which experienced significantly lower job loss during the COVID-19 pandemic. Significant apartment demand that meets new apartment supply. We remain focused on owning and operating properties in markets or submarkets where the supply of apartments is balanced with strong demand that supports superior long-term returns. Other favorable performance drivers including high and rapidly rising single-family housing prices that support longer term rentership, a balanced regulatory/political environment relating to housing policy and manageable resiliency/environmental risk. We believe our strategy capitalizes on the preference of renters of all ages to live in the locations where we operate which typically are near transportation (both public transit and convenient highway access), entertainment, employment centers/universities and cultural and outdoor amenities. Furthermore, we believe that demand for rental housing will continue to be driven primarily through household formations from the younger segments of our population, including both Millennials and Generation Z, and to a lesser extent the aging Baby Boomer generation. Millennials are comprised of those individuals born between 1981 and 1996, total approximately 72 million people and continue to be a significant portion of the renter population. They also tend to remain renters longer due to societal trends favoring delays in marriage and having children as well as lower savings for home down payments. Generation Z is comprised of the approximately 67 million people born between 1997 and 2012. This cohort is just now entering the renter population and is expected to continue to be an important source of demand. Baby Boomers, a demographic of more than 71 million people born between 1946 and 1964, also trend toward apartment rentals. The Company continues to allocate capital in order to optimize performance by balancing current cash flow growth with long-term capital appreciation. Most recently, we have done so by adding expansion markets to our portfolio allocation that meet the same characteristics listed above. Expansion into these markets of Denver, Atlanta, Dallas/Ft. Worth and Austin includes investments in both urban and suburban properties and is generally being funded by reducing exposure in selective established markets. Development also plays an important role in our capital allocation. Development activity is focused on our in-house pipeline, our strategic partnership with Toll Brothers, Inc. and joint ventures with other third-party developers in both established and expansion markets. Operations and Innovation We attempt to balance occupancy and rental rates to maximize our revenue while exercising tight cost control to generate the highest possible return to our shareholders. Revenue is maximized through our customized pricing system that uses market data on current and projected demand and availability to create both current and forward pricing daily for each apartment unit we manage. We focus on the resident experience and leveraging operating efficiency which we believe drives our success in renewing our residents. This focus has driven strong occupancy and a high percentage of residents renewing that is in line with pre-pandemic levels while achieving strong renewal rate growth. 7 Table of Contents Rapidly evolving t echnology continues to drive innovation in the rental industry . We have been and continue to be a leader in deploying and investing in property technology to serve our customers better and operate more efficiently. Having been a first mover in such important areas as revenue management and online leasing, we are focused on technology that improves our operating margins and customer experience . We use a standardized purchasing system to control our operating expenses and a business intelligence platform that allows all our team members to quickly identify and address issues and opportunities . Our operations benefitted from having many of these initiatives in place during the pandemic, allowing us to interact with our customers in a safe and responsible manner, including self-guided tours, automated responses to customer inquiries and enhanced service and maintenance management. While we believe areas such as smart home technology and others will provide the foundation for current and future improvements to how we do business , we will continue to consider the cost and longevity of technology capital investments and their benefits . Our Commitment to Environmental, Social and Governance ( ESG ) At Equity Residential, we believe a focus on ESG is a key way to programmatically address stakeholder concerns as part of our corporate purpose. This needs to be a sustainable endeavor, in which we provide resilient properties that will stand the test of time and remain attractive to our customers and the community without negatively impacting the environment. We have a dedicated in-house team that initiates and applies sustainable practices in all aspects of our business, including investment activities, development, property operations and property management activities. Multifamily housing is one of the most environmentally-friendly uses of real estate, as each property provides homes for hundreds of families in a denser shared environment. We consider building locations based on walkability, accessibility, neighborhoods and parks. We also design our communities to support amenities such as fitness centers and we select locations near shops, restaurants, outdoor amenities such as bike/running paths and health clubs, enabling a low carbon footprint lifestyle for our residents to live, work and play. Equity Residential s sustainability program actively manages environmental impacts and climate-related risks and opportunities through optimized, financially responsible capital investments and technologies. We methodically focus on energy, water and emissions to advance the program s policies, targets and resilience outcomes. Together, we believe our program drives long-term asset value, responsibly manages risks and engages our communities, residents, employees and shareholders as part of our broader ESG strategy and commitment to good corporate citizenship and maximizing investment performance. To further strengthen our commitments to ESG initiatives, we issued two sustainable fixed-income instruments (each a green bond ) designed to support projects that contribute to environmental sustainability. In 2018, the Company became the first multifamily REIT ever to issue a green bond, with the net proceeds of approximately $396.7 million from the offering allocated to the development of a property in San Francisco certified as LEED Platinum and the acquisition of two properties certified as LEED Silver. In 2021, the Company issued a second green bond, and the net proceeds of approximately $497.5 million from this offering are intended to be allocated to the development or acquisition of green buildings and/or investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainable water management. Additionally, during 2021, the Company began funding its $10.0 million investment in a new fund focused on early stage sustainability and climate change mitigation technology relevant to the built environment. We are also intensely focused on the Social and Governance aspects of ESG. As detailed below, we have a commitment to our employees engagement, diversity and inclusion and wellness that is the foundation of our corporate purpose. We also recognize that a successful company must incorporate the best corporate governance practices in order to better serve its stakeholders. For additional information regarding our ESG efforts, see our 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Report at our website, www.equityapartments.com. This report, which includes Sustainability Accounting Standards Board disclosures and incorporates recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, was reviewed and approved by the Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Trustees, which monitors the Company s ongoing ESG efforts. We continue to enhance our ESG disclosure efforts, including auditing the results outlined in the above report. Furthermore, our annual proxy statements contain additional information on our ESG efforts, including detailed information regarding our corporate governance practices. Such annual proxy statements and the information contained therein are not part of or incorporated into this report, except as otherwise provided herein. Human Capital At Equity Residential, our team of approximately 2,400 employees is the driving force behind our success. We believe that our richly diverse work environment captures top talent, cultivates the best ideas and creates the widest possible platform for this success in line with our corporate purpose of Creating communities where people thrive . Our core principles, affectionately named Ten Ways to Be a Winner , guide our behavior as individuals and collectively as a team, helping us in our goal to deliver market-leading performance. As part of our Ten Ways to Be a Winner, we encourage our team members to raise questions, take educated risks, offer new ideas and help us make the right decisions. One way we live the Ten Ways is by enriching our culture through our core Equity Values: Diversity Inclusion, Social Responsibility, Sustainability and Total Wellbeing . We have assembled a cross-functional employee-led Equity Values Council to lead our efforts on these values by acting as change agents to drive initiatives, 8 Table of Contents create goals and awareness, and encourage colleagues to participate in community service activities and wellness initiatives. In addition, executive compensation is based, in part, on meeting important Equity Values goals, and our Board of Trustees , primarily through its Compensation Committee, takes an active role in overseeing our efforts in this regard . Diversity and Inclusion Our commitment to diversity and inclusion starts with a highly skilled and diverse Board of Trustees. We are committed to hiring a diverse workforce and also fostering a safe, inclusive and productive workplace for all employees. We believe providing a work environment based on respect, trust and collaboration creates an exceptional employee experience where employees can bring their whole selves to work and thrive in their careers. In recent years, we have created dedicated Diversity and Inclusion staffing to oversee this crucial work. To further prioritize the importance of our diversity and inclusion efforts, our executives annual compensation goals include an evaluation of objective metrics measuring our Company s progress in this regard. We have the benefit of a diverse workforce, of which 62.0% currently identify as ethnically diverse. We also continue to focus on improving our female representation, which is now 36.0% of our workforce. A diversity and inclusion lens is embedded in our talent review process. This includes the development of our Overcoming Bias in Performance Review Toolkit designed to provide practical bias interrupters and tweaks to the performance evaluation process that interrupt and correct unconscious bias. We strategically identify opportunities to increase the diversity of our talent pipeline at all levels, including by actively seeking to source a pool of diverse candidates for mid-management and above positions in the communities where we serve, such as from Project Destined, Fannie Mae s Future Housing Leaders, Howard University, Roosevelt University, International Rescue Committee and Evanston Scholars. We employ interns from the Development School for Youth and local colleges to provide pathways for students of various backgrounds interested in real estate. The Company was named the Gold Nareit 2021 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion award recipient in recognition of the Company s demonstration of a strong commitment to the advancement of diversity and inclusion both within the Company and in the REIT and publicly traded real estate industry. Pay Equity In order to attract and retain the best employees, we are committed to providing a total compensation package which is market-based, performance driven, fair and internally equitable. Our goal is to be competitive both within the general employment market as well as with our competitors in the real estate industry, with our strongest performers being paid more. Base pay is reviewed annually, as is Equity Residential s compensation framework, by partnering with managers to create and update job descriptions that reflect the duties, skills, experience and education required to perform the role, and then benchmarking our jobs against third-party compensation surveys to determine the market value of the job. During the year-end evaluation process, managers review and calibrate compensation for all employees on their team, in an effort to ensure equity around our pay practices and allow us to retain and reward our top talent. Employee Engagement Employee engagement and experience are extremely important at Equity Residential. In 2021, we transitioned to a new Employee Experience (EX) Survey, measuring employee engagement and diversity inclusion, among other components of the employee experience. Our 2021 engagement score of 79% favorability is very strong, especially given the pandemic and uncertainty surrounding it. Our Diversity Inclusion Index score of 83% demonstrated an increase in employee favorability for the initiatives taking place and a greater sense of belonging. Senior leaders are assessed annually on their leadership results, which for 2021 were measured by a pulse survey score, employee retention and diversity and inclusion efforts. Training and Development We believe a successful workplace is one where employees constantly learn and grow. Our internal Organization and Talent Development ( OTD ) team is interspersed throughout our markets and works regularly with employees to expand their knowledge and skills. OTD develops and delivers a wide range of training and development opportunities, from tactical to strategic, face-to-face to virtual, social learning to self-directed learning, and more. In 2021, each employee 9 Table of Contents completed an average of approximately 15 hours of dedicated learning at a Company expenditure of approximately $1, 200 per employee. Health, Safety and Wellness Equity Residential is committed to providing the tools and resources to help our employees achieve total wellbeing. Whether physical, financial, career, social or community wellbeing, Equity Residential offers benefits to help meet our employee needs. Physical Wellbeing: Equity Residential is focused on providing benefits that help our employees achieve balance and address good health proactively, with coverage for emergencies and ongoing needs that can arise as well. Long before healthcare reform, Equity Residential made a commitment to cover 100% of employee preventive care. This commitment and our robust and highly popular wellness program has made proactive personal healthcare more accessible and manageable for employees, while encouraging ongoing healthy behaviors and rewarding employees for taking a proactive approach to their health. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we held 2020 healthcare premiums flat for employees in 2021 in support of a holistic total rewards strategy. Financial Wellbeing: These benefits and resources help our employees manage their money better today, while preparing for financial milestones and retirement in the future. Financial peace of mind is at the core of these offerings, whether it s our generous 401(k) match, basic and supplemental insurance to ensure our loved ones and possessions are cared for, rent discounts at our properties or additional savings and investment options like our employee share purchase plan. Career Wellbeing: When employees move up in skill and experience, so does Equity Residential. We encourage our employees to Test their Limits, push the boundaries of their comfort zones and seek new challenges through several learning resources and courses, in addition to tuition reimbursement. We actively promote from within, and many senior corporate and property leaders have risen from entry level or junior positions. Social and Community Wellbeing: We offer a number of benefits that foster social and community wellbeing, including paid time off to volunteer in our communities. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have communicated regularly with employees and also released a comprehensive guide designed as a single place for employees to access information on critical benefits and resources. A key focus included mental wellbeing to help employees better cope with the challenges to our work routines, our home routines and how we interact with our family, friends and community. We also continued to ensure that our employees had access to personal protective equipment and cleaning supplies as needed throughout the pandemic. In October 2021, as an effort to do our part in the prevention and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, we introduced our COVID-19 Health Safety Requirement Policy requiring all employees to be fully vaccinated (or receive an approved accommodation) by January 13, 2022. When implementing this new policy, we took great care by supporting each employee in their decision-making process and providing additional resources, including access to medical professionals. Our efforts resulted in a compliance and employee retention rate of 99%. For nearly three years, we have partnered with Employees1st to provide financial relief via a crisis fund for employees struck by personal hardships or unforeseen disasters. The Company contributed additional funds to the Employees1st crisis fund to further support employees who experienced hardship as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. We are proud that this program allows yet another avenue for us to tangibly demonstrate our One Team culture by ensuring that employees are safe and secure, especially during extreme or catastrophic circumstances. Competition All of the Company s properties are located in developed areas with multiple housing choices, including other multifamily properties. The number of competitive housing choices or multifamily properties in a particular area could have a material effect on the Company s ability to lease apartment units at its properties and on the rents charged. The Company may be competing with other housing providers that have greater resources than the Company and whose managers have more experience than the Company s managers. In addition, other forms of rental properties and single-family housing provide housing alternatives to potential residents of multifamily properties. See Item 1A, Risk Factors , for additional information with respect to competition. Regulatory Considerations See Item 1A, Risk Factors , for information concerning the potential effects of governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, on our operations. 10 Table of Contents