Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2. Properties 42 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 43 Executive Officers of the Registrant 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 114 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 114 Item 9B. Other Information 115 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 115 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 116 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 117 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 117 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 117 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 123 Signatures 124 2 Table of Contents Glossary of Commonly Used Terms, Abbreviations and Measurements Unless the context otherwise indicates, all references in this report to "EQT," the "Company," "we," "us," or "our" are to EQT Corporation and its subsidiaries, collectively . Commonly Used Terms Appalachian Basin the area of the United States composed of those portions of West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Maryland, Kentucky and Virginia that lie in the Appalachian Mountains. basis when referring to commodity pricing, the difference between the futures price for a commodity and the corresponding sales price at various regional sales points. The differential commonly is related to factors such as product quality, location, transportation capacity availability and contract pricing. British thermal unit a measure of the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. collar a financial arrangement that effectively establishes a price range for the underlying commodity. The producer bears the risk and benefit of fluctuation between the minimum (floor) price and the maximum (ceiling) price. continuous accumulations natural gas and oil resources that are pervasive throughout large areas, have ill-defined boundaries and typically lack, or are unaffected by, hydrocarbon-water contacts near the base of the accumulation. development well a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. exploratory well a well drilled to find a new field or new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir. Generally, an exploratory well is any well that is not a development well, an extension well, a service well or a stratigraphic test well. extension well a well drilled to extend the limits of a known reservoir. gas all references to "gas" in this report refer to natural gas. gross "gross" natural gas and oil wells or "gross" acres equal the total number of wells or acres in which we have a working interest. hedging the use of derivative commodity and interest rate instruments to reduce financial exposure to commodity price and interest rate volatility. horizontal drilling drilling that ultimately is horizontal or near horizontal to increase the length of the well bore penetrating the target formation. horizontal wells wells that are drilled horizontal or near horizontal to increase the length of the well bore penetrating the target formation. natural gas liquids (NGLs) those hydrocarbons in natural gas that are separated from the gas as liquids through the process of absorption, condensation or other methods in gas processing plants. Natural gas liquids include primarily ethane, propane, butane and isobutane. net "net" natural gas and oil wells or "net" acres are determined by adding the fractional ownership working interests we have in gross wells or acres. net revenue interest the interest retained by us in the revenues from a well or property after giving effect to all third-party interests (equal to 100% minus all royalties on a well or property). option a contract that gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified quantity of a commodity or other instrument at a specific price within a specified period of time. 3 Table of Contents play a proven geological formation that contains commercial amounts of hydrocarbons. productive well a well that is producing oil or gas or that is capable of production. proved reserves quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations, prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. proved developed reserves proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) proved reserves that can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be recovered from new wells on undrilled proved acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for completion. reliable technology a grouping of one or more technologies (including computational methods) that has been field tested and has been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an analogous formation. reservoir a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible natural gas and/or oil that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is separate from other reservoirs. service well a well drilled or completed for the purpose of supporting production in an existing field. Specific purposes of service wells include, among other things, gas injection, water injection and salt-water disposal. stratigraphic test well a hole drilled for the sole purpose of gaining structural or stratigraphic information to aid in exploring for oil and gas. well pad an area of land that has been cleared and leveled to enable a drilling rig to operate in the exploration and development of a natural gas or oil well. working interest an interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on a property and receive a share of any production. Abbreviations CFTC Commodity Futures Trading Commission EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ESG Environmental, Social and Governance initiatives FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission GAAP U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles IRS Internal Revenue Service NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange OTC over the counter SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 4 Table of Contents Measurements Bbl = barrel Bcf = billion cubic feet Bcfe = billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalents, with one barrel of NGLs and crude oil being equivalent to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas Btu = one British thermal unit Dth = dekatherm or million British thermal units Mbbl = thousand barrels Mcf = thousand cubic feet Mcfe = thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalents, with one barrel of NGLs and crude oil being equivalent to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas MMbbl = million barrels MMBtu = million British thermal units MMcf = million cubic feet MMcfe = million cubic feet of natural gas equivalents, with one barrel of NGLs and crude oil being equivalent to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas MMDth = million dekatherm Tcfe = trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalents, with one barrel of NGLs and crude oil being equivalent to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas 5 Table of Contents SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS We believe that the principal risks associated with our business, and consequently the principal risks associated with an investment in our equity or debt securities, generally fall within the following categories: Risks Associated with Natural Gas Drilling Operations. As a natural gas producer, there are risks inherent in our primary business operations. These risks are not necessarily unique to us, but rather, these are risks that most operators in our industry have at least some exposure to. Financial and Market Risks. Given that our primary product and source of revenue is the sale of natural gas and NGLs, one of our most material risks is the commodity market and the price of natural gas and NGLs, which is often volatile. Additionally, our operations are capital intensive. Pressures on the market as a whole, or our specific financial position whether due to depressed commodity prices, our leverage, our credit ratings or otherwise could make it difficult for us to obtain the funding necessary to conduct our operations. Risks Associated with Our Human Capital, Technology and Other Resources and Service Providers. Our business, and the U.S. energy grid, is predominately operated on a digital system. Our employees rely on our cloud-based digital work environment to communicate and access data that is necessary to conduct our day-to-day operations. While these digital systems enable us to efficiently supply our natural gas, NGLs and oil to the market, they are also susceptible to cyber security threats. Likewise, as a digitally-focused organization, we seek employees with a high degree of both technical skill and digital literacy, and it can be difficult to attract and retain personnel who satisfy these criteria. Further, we operate in the Appalachian Basin, and a substantial majority of our midstream and water services are provided by one provider, Equitrans Midstream Corporation (Equitrans Midstream), making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating primarily in one major geographic area and obtaining a substantial amount of our services from a single provider within that operating area. Legal and Regulatory Risks. There are many environmental, energy, financial, real property and other regulations that we are required to comply with in the context of conducting our operations, otherwise, we may be exposed to fines, penalties, investigations, litigation or other legal proceedings. Additionally, negative public perception of us or the natural gas industry, or increasing consumer demand for alternatives to natural gas, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and financial position. Risks Associated with Strategic Transactions. We have historically been involved in, and anticipate that we will continue to explore, opportunities to create value through strategic transactions, whether through mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or similar business transactions. There are risks inherent in any strategic transaction, and such risks could negatively affect the benefits, outcomes and synergies anticipated to be obtained from executing such strategic transactions. We describe these risks in greater detail under Item 1A., "Risk Factors." 6 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts are forward-looking and are usually identified by the use of words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "could," "would," "will," "may," "forecast," "approximate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe" and other words of similar meaning, or the negative thereof, in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial matters. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include the matters discussed in sections "Strategy" and "Outlook" in Item 1., "Business," section "Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" in Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and the expectations of our plans, strategies, objectives and growth and anticipated financial and operational performance, including guidance regarding our strategy to develop our reserves; drilling plans and programs, including availability of capital to complete these plans and programs; total resource potential and drilling inventory duration; projected production and sales volume and growth rates; natural gas prices; changes in basis and the impact of commodity prices on our business; potential future impairments of our assets; projected well costs and capital expenditures; infrastructure programs; the cost, capacity and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals; our ability to successfully implement and execute our operational, organizational, technological and ESG initiatives, and achieve the anticipated results of such initiatives; projected gathering and compression rates; monetization transactions, including asset sales, joint ventures or other transactions involving our assets, and our planned use of the proceeds from such monetization transactions; potential acquisition transactions or other strategic transactions, the timing thereof and our ability to achieve the intended operational, financial and strategic benefits from any such transactions; the timing and structure of any dispositions of our remaining retained shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock, and the planned use of the proceeds from any such dispositions; the amount and timing of any repayments, redemptions or repurchases of our common stock, outstanding debt securities or other debt instruments; our ability to reduce our debt and the timing of such reductions, if any; the projected amount and timing of dividends; projected cash flows and free cash flow, and the timing thereof; liquidity and financing requirements, including funding sources and availability; our ability to maintain or improve our credit ratings, leverage levels and financial profile; our hedging strategy and projected margin posting obligations; the effects of litigation, government regulation and tax position; and the expected impact of changes to tax laws. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. We have based these forward-looking statements on current expectations and assumptions about future events, taking into account all information currently known by us. While we consider these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance and results of our business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth in Item 1A., "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we do not intend to correct or update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Reserve engineering is a process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas, NGLs and oil that cannot be measured in an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data, the interpretation of such data and price and cost assumptions made by reserve engineers. In addition, the results of drilling, testing and production activities may justify revisions of estimates that were made previously. If significant, such revisions would change the schedule of any further production and our development program. Accordingly, reserve estimates may differ significantly from the quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil that are ultimately recovered. In reviewing any agreements incorporated by reference in or filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, remember such agreements are included to provide information regarding the terms of such agreements and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about us. The agreements may contain representations and warranties by us, which should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties to such agreements should those statements prove to be inaccurate. The representations and warranties were intended to be relied upon solely by the applicable party to such agreement and were made only as of the date of the relevant agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in such agreement and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, such representations and warranties alone may not describe our actual state of affairs or the affairs of our affiliates as of the date they were made or at any other time and should not be relied upon as statements of fact. 7 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General We are a natural gas production company with operations focused in the Marcellus and Utica Shales of the Appalachian Basin. Based on average daily sales volume, we are the largest producer of natural gas in the United States. As of December 31, 2021, we had 25.0 Tcfe of proved natural gas, NGLs and crude oil reserves across approximately 2.0 million gross acres, including approximately 1.7 million gross acres in the Marcellus play. Strategy We are committed to responsibly developing our world-class asset base and being the operator of choice for all stakeholders. By promoting a culture that prioritizes operational efficiency, technology and sustainability, we seek to continuously improve the way we produce environmentally responsible, reliable low-cost energy. We measure sustainability through our best-in-class team and culture, ESG-focused operations, substantial inventory of core drilling locations and strong balance sheet. We believe that the scale and contiguity of our acreage position differentiates us from our Appalachian Basin peers and that our evolution into a modern, digitally-enabled exploration and production business enhances our strategic advantage. Our operational strategy focuses on the successful execution of combo-development projects. Combo-development refers to the development of several multi-well pads in tandem. Combo-development generates value across all levels of the reserves development process by maximizing operational and capital efficiencies. In the drilling stage, rigs spend more time drilling and less time transitioning to new sites. Advanced planning, a prerequisite to pursuing combo-development, facilitates the delivery of bulk hydraulic fracturing sand and piped fresh water (as opposed to truck-transported water), the ability to continuously meet completions supply needs and the use of environmentally friendly technologies. Operational efficiencies realized from combo-development are passed on to our service providers, which reduces overall contract rates. The benefits of combo-development extend beyond financial gains to include environmental and social interests. We have developed an integrated ESG program that interplays with our combo-development-driven operational strategy. Core tenets of our ESG program include investing in technology and human capital; improving data collection, analysis and reporting; and engaging with stakeholders to understand, and align our actions with, their needs and expectations. Combo-development, when compared to similar production from non-combo-development operations, translates into fewer trucks on the road, decreased fuel usage, shorter periods of noise pollution, fewer areas impacted by midstream pipeline construction and shortened duration of site operations, all of which fosters a greater focus on safety and environmental protection. Combo-development projects require significant advanced planning, including the establishment of a large, contiguous leasehold position; the advanced acquisition of regulatory permits and sourcing of fracturing sand and water; the timely verification of midstream connectivity; and the ability to quickly respond to internal and external stimuli. Without a modern, digitally-connected operating model or an acreage position that enables operations of this scale, combo-development would not be possible. We believe that our proprietary digital work environment in conjunction with the size and contiguity of our asset base uniquely position us to execute on a multi-year inventory of combo-development projects in our core acreage position. Our operational strategy employs this differentiation to advance our mission of being the operator of choice for all stakeholders. We believe that combo-development projects are key to delivering sustainably low well costs and higher returns on invested capital and that our long-term transformative plan has been designed to create value by leveraging our strategic advantage, both operational and environmental, over our peers. We believe our business model is sustainable and we expect to generate significant free cash flow over the next six years. Our capital allocation plan is focused on reducing our debt and leverage, while also returning capital to shareholders through a combination of dividends and a share repurchase program. We are focused on achieving and maintaining investment grade credit metrics as well as regaining our investment grade credit rating in the near term, which will allow us to capture a lower cost of capital and enhance shareholder returns. 8 Table of Contents 2021 Highlights Achieved 2021 sales volume of 1,858 Bcfe, average daily sales volume of 5.1 Bcfe per day; received an average realized price of $2.50 per Mcfe. Increased 2021 total proved reserves by 5.2 Tcfe, or 26%, compared to 2020. Acquired strategic assets located in the Appalachian Basin from Alta Resources Development, LLC for total consideration of $2,925 million (the Alta Acquisition). Realized a meaningful reduction of gathering and transmission expense on a per Mcfe basis of $0.05 and $0.06, respectively, during 2021 compared to 2020. Achieved credit ratings upgrades from S P, Moody's and Fitch. Extended the term of our credit facility and reduced outstanding letters of credit under our credit facility by $351 million. Obtained Equitable Origin and MiQ Certifications for a majority of our natural gas. Outlook In 2022, we expect to spend approximately $1.30 to $1.45 billion in total capital expenditures, excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interest. We expect to allocate the planned capital expenditures as follows: approximately $1.0 to $1.1 billion to fund reserve development, approximately $110 to $130 million to fund land and lease acquisitions, approximately $120 to $160 million to fund other production infrastructure and approximately $55 to $75 million applied towards capitalized overhead. Our 2022 capital expenditure program is expected to deliver sales volume of 1,950 to 2,050 Bcfe. In December 2021, we reaffirmed our commitment to attaining investment grade credit metrics and outlined a leverage and debt reduction strategy with the goal of reducing total debt by at least $1.5 billion by the end of 2023. In addition, we announced our plan to return capital to shareholders, which included the commencement of a share repurchase program, under which we are authorized to repurchase $1.0 billion of our outstanding common stock, and the reinstatement of a quarterly cash dividend at an annual rate of $0.50 per share of our common stock starting in the first quarter of 2022. Our capital allocation plan is focused on maintaining production volumes. We have aligned our hedge strategy in a manner that we believe will mitigate the risk of volatility of future natural gas and NGLs prices, which will enable us to execute on our capital expenditure, debt reduction and shareholder return strategy. Our revenues, earnings, liquidity and ability to grow are substantially dependent on the prices we receive for, and our ability to develop our reserves of, natural gas, NGLs and oil. Due to the volatility of commodity prices, we are unable to predict future potential movements in the market prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil at our ultimate sales points and, thus, cannot predict the ultimate impact of prices on our operations. Changes in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices could affect, among other things, our development plans, which would increase or decrease the pace of the development and the level of our reserves, as well as our revenues, earnings or liquidity. Lower prices and changes in our development plans could also result in non-cash impairments in the book value of our oil and gas properties or downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Any such impairments or downward adjustments to our estimated reserves could potentially be material to us. See "Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" and "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" included in Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a discussion of our accounting policies and significant assumptions related to accounting for gas, NGLs and oil producing activities and our accounting policies and processes related to impairment reviews for proved and unproved property. Segment and Geographical Information Our operations consist of one reportable segment. We have a single, company-wide management team that administers all properties as a whole rather than by discrete operating segments. We measure financial performance as a single enterprise and not on an area-by-area basis. Substantially all of our assets and operations are located in the Appalachian Basin. 9 Table of Contents Reserves The following tables summarize our proved developed and undeveloped natural gas, NGLs and crude oil reserves using average first-day-of-the-month closing prices for the prior twelve months and disaggregated by product and play. Substantially all of our reserves reside in continuous accumulations. December 31, 2021 Natural Gas NGLs and Crude Oil Total (Bcf) (MMbbl) (Bcfe) Proved developed reserves 16,152 178 17,219 Proved undeveloped reserves 7,372 62 7,743 Total proved reserves 23,524 240 24,962 December 31, 2021 Marcellus Upper Devonian Ohio Utica Other Total (Bcfe) Proved developed reserves 15,528 806 787 98 17,219 Proved undeveloped reserves 7,733 10 7,743 Total proved reserves 23,261 806 797 98 24,962 The following table summarizes our proved developed and undeveloped reserves using average first-day-of-the-month closing prices for the prior twelve months and disaggregated by state. December 31, 2021 Pennsylvania West Virginia Ohio Total (Bcfe) Proved developed producing reserves 12,642 3,292 781 16,715 Proved developed non-producing reserves 375 123 6 504 Proved undeveloped reserves 5,085 2,648 10 7,743 Total proved reserves 18,102 6,063 797 24,962 Gross proved undeveloped drilling locations 279 146 5 430 Net proved undeveloped drilling locations 195 118 1 314 Our 2021 total proved reserves increased by 5.2 Tcfe, or 26%, compared to 2020 due to acquisitions of 4,187 Bcfe from the Alta Acquisition and Reliance Asset Acquisition (defined in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and extensions, discoveries and other additions of 3,104 Bcfe, partly offset by production of 1,858 Bcfe and revisions to previous estimates of 274 Bcfe. 10 Table of Contents Our 2021 proved undeveloped reserves increased by 1,582 Bcfe, or 26%, compared to 2020. The following table provides a rollforward of our proved undeveloped reserves. Proved Undeveloped Reserves (Bcfe) Balance at January 1, 2021 6,161 Conversions into proved developed reserves (1,634) Acquisition of in-place reserves 1,217 Revision of previous estimates (a) (881) Extensions, discoveries and other additions (b) 2,880 Balance at December 31, 2021 7,743 (a) Composed of (i) negative revisions of 819 Bcfe from proved undeveloped locations that are no longer expected to be developed within five years of initial booking as proved reserves as a result of changes to our development plan to support the continued implementation of our combo-development strategy; and (ii) negative revisions of 62 Bcfe due primarily to changes in working interests and net revenue interests. (b) Composed of (i) 2,828 Bcfe from proved undeveloped additions associated with acreage that was previously unproved but became proved due to 2021 reserve development that expanded the number of our proven locations, implementation of, and alignment with, our combo-development strategy and additions to our five-year drilling plan; and (ii) 52 Bcfe from the extension of lateral lengths of proved undeveloped reserves. As of December 31, 2021, we had zero wells with proved undeveloped reserves that had remained undeveloped for more than five years from their time of booking. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the preparation of, and year-over-year changes in, our reserves estimate and calculation of the standardized measure of estimated future net cash fl