Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 13 I tem 1C. Cybersecurity 13 Item 2. Properties 14 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 15 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 36 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 73 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 73 Item 9B. Other Information 73 III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 75 Item 11. Executive Compensation 76 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 76 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 76 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 76 IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 77 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 77 Signatures 81 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Erie Indemnity Company ("Indemnity", "we", "us", "our") is a publicly held Pennsylvania business corporation that has since its incorporation in 1925 served as the attorney-in-fact for the subscribers (policyholders) at the Erie Insurance Exchange ("Exchange"). The Exchange, which also commenced business in 1925, is a Pennsylvania-domiciled reciprocal insurer that writes property and casualty insurance. The Exchange has wholly owned property and casualty subsidiaries including: Erie Insurance Company, Erie Insurance Company of New York, Erie Insurance Property Casualty Company and Flagship City Insurance Company, and a wholly owned life insurance company, Erie Family Life Insurance Company ("EFL"). Our primary function as attorney-in-fact is to perform policy issuance and renewal services on behalf of the subscribers at the Exchange. We also act as attorney-in-fact on behalf of the subscribers at the Exchange with respect to all claims handling and investment management services, as well as the service provider for all claims handling, life insurance, and investment management services for the Exchange's insurance subsidiaries, collectively referred to as "administrative services". Acting as attorney-in-fact in these two capacities is done in accordance with a subscriber's agreement (a limited power of attorney) executed individually by each subscriber (policyholder), which appoints Indemnity as each subscriber's attorney-in-fact to transact certain business on their behalf. In accordance with the subscriber s agreement for acting as attorney-in-fact in these two capacities, we retain a management fee calculated as a percentage, not to exceed 25%, of the direct and affiliated assumed premiums written by the Exchange. The management fee rate is set at least annually by our Board of Directors. The process of setting the management fee rate includes, but is not limited to, the evaluation of current year operating results compared to both prior year and industry estimated results for both Indemnity and the Exchange, and consideration of several factors for both entities including, but not limited to: their relative financial strength and capital position; projected revenue, expense and earnings for the subsequent year; future capital needs; as well as competitive position. Services The policy issuance and renewal services we provide on behalf of the subscribers at the Exchange are related to the sales, underwriting and issuance of policies. The sales related services we provide include agent compensation and certain sales and advertising support services. Agent compensation includes scheduled commissions to agents based upon premiums written as well as incentive compensation, which is earned by achieving targeted measures. Agent compensation comprised approximately 67% of our 2023 policy issuance and renewal expenses. The underwriting services we provide include underwriting and policy processing and comprised approximately 9% of our 2023 policy issuance and renewal expenses. The remaining services we provide include customer service and administrative support. We also provide information technology services that support all the functions listed above that comprised approximately 11% of our 2023 policy issuance and renewal expenses. Included in these expenses are allocations of costs for departments that support these policy issuance and renewal functions. Consistent with its legal structure as a reciprocal insurer, the Exchange does not have any employees or officers. Therefore, it enters into contractual relationships by and through the subscribers' attorney-in-fact. Indemnity serves as the attorney-in-fact on behalf of the subscribers at the Exchange with respect to its administrative services as enumerated in the subscriber's agreement. The Exchange's insurance subsidiaries also utilize Indemnity for these services in accordance with the service agreements between each of the subsidiaries and Indemnity. Claims handling services include costs incurred in the claims process, including the adjustment, investigation, defense, recording and payment functions. Life insurance management services include costs incurred in the management and processing of life insurance business. Investment management services are related to investment trading activity, accounting and all other functions attributable to the investment of funds. Included in these expenses are allocations of costs for departments that support these administrative functions. The subscriber's agreement and service agreements provide for reimbursement of amounts incurred for these services to Indemnity. Reimbursements are settled at cost. State insurance regulations require that intercompany service agreements and any material amendments be approved in advance by the state insurance department. Erie Insurance Exchange As our primary purpose is to manage the affairs at the Exchange for the benefit of the subscribers (policyholders) through the policy issuance and renewal services and administrative services, the Exchange is our sole customer. Our earnings are largely generated from management fees based on the direct and affiliated assumed premiums written by the Exchange. We have no direct competition in providing these services to the Exchange. The Exchange generates revenue by insuring preferred and standard risks, with personal lines comprising 70% of the 2023 direct and affiliated assumed written premiums and commercial lines comprising the remaining 30%. The principal personal 3 Table of Contents lines products are private passenger automobile and homeowners. The principal commercial lines products are commercial multi-peril, commercial automobile and workers compensation. Historically, due to policy renewal and sales patterns, the Exchange's direct and affiliated assumed written premiums tend to be greater in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year. The Exchange is represented by independent agencies that serve as its sole distribution channel. In addition to their principal role as salespersons, the independent agents play a significant role as underwriting and service providers and are an integral part of the Exchange's success. Our results of operations are tied to the growth and financial condition of the Exchange. If any events occurred that impaired the Exchange's ability to grow or sustain its financial condition, including but not limited to reduced financial strength ratings, disruption in the independent agency relationships, significant catastrophe losses, or products not meeting customer demands, the Exchange could find it more difficult to retain its existing business and attract new business. A decline in the business of the Exchange almost certainly could have as a consequence a decline in the total premiums paid and a correspondingly adverse effect on the amount of the management fees we receive. We also have an exposure to a concentration of credit risk related to the unsecured receivables due from the Exchange for net management fee and other reimbursements. See Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 15, Concentrations of Credit Risk, of Notes to Financial Statements" contained within this report. See the risk factors related to our dependency on the growth and financial condition of the Exchange in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" contained within this report. Competition Our primary function as attorney-in-fact is to perform policy issuance and renewal services on behalf of the subscribers at the Exchange. We also act as attorney-in-fact on behalf of the subscribers at the Exchange, as well as the service provider for the Exchange's insurance subsidiaries, with respect to all administrative services. There are a limited number of companies that provide services under a reciprocal insurance exchange structure. We do not directly compete against other such companies, given we are appointed by the subscribers at the Exchange to provide these services. The direct and affiliated assumed premiums written by the Exchange drive our management fee, which is our primary source of revenue. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive. Property and casualty insurers generally compete on the basis of customer service, price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability and geographic coverage. Vigorous competition, particularly in the personal lines automobile and homeowners lines of business, exists from large, well-capitalized national companies, some of which have broad distribution networks of employed or captive agents, by smaller regional insurers, and by large companies who market and sell personal lines products directly to consumers. Innovations by competitors or other market participants may also increase the level of competition in the industry. In addition, because the insurance products of the Exchange are marketed exclusively through independent insurance agents, the Exchange faces competition within its appointed agencies based upon ease of doing business, product, price, and service relationships. Market competition bears directly on the price charged for insurance products and services subject to regulatory limitations. Industry capital levels can also significantly affect prices charged for coverage. Growth is driven by a company's ability to provide insurance services and competitive prices while maintaining target profit margins. Growth is a product of a company's ability to retain existing customers and to attract new customers, as well as movement in the average premium per policy. The Exchange's business model is designed to provide the advantages of localized marketing and claims servicing with the economies of scale and low cost of operations from centralized support services. Indemnity, as part of its role managing and conducting the business and affairs of the Exchange, also carefully selects the independent agencies that represent the Exchange, which seeks to be the lead insurer with its agents in order to enhance the agency relationship and the likelihood of receiving the most desirable underwriting opportunities from its agents. The Exchange s strategic focus as a reciprocal insurer is to employ a disciplined underwriting philosophy and to leverage its strong surplus position to generate higher risk adjusted investment returns. The goal is to produce acceptable returns, on a long-term basis, through careful risk selection, appropriate pricing and superior investment returns. This focus allows the Exchange to accomplish its mission of providing as near perfect protection, as near perfect service as is humanly possible at the lowest possible cost. See the risk factors related to our dependency on the growth and financial condition of the Exchange in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" contained within this report for further discussion on competition in the insurance industry. 4 Table of Contents Human Capital Management Employee Value Proposition Our human capital management strategy, including initiatives to shape our workforce and workplace, is designed to attract, retain, and develop talent to ensure we are well positioned for the future. Our partnership with our employees is one of the cornerstones of our success. Our employee value proposition includes a culture that focuses on physical, financial, and emotional well-being. In 2023, we were Certified by Great Place To Work for our positive employee experience. We offer competitive pay with a signature and affordable benefits package including options designed to meet the unique needs of our employees and their families. Employees have access to an employee assistance plan, emergency child and elder care providers, adoption assistance, and infertility assistance, among others. We hold a shared responsibility view of retirement planning whereby we provide tools and resources that employees are expected to use to achieve their retirement goals. We set ourselves apart by offering both a 401(k) savings plan and a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan. We encourage a work/life balance for all employees and recognize the need for employee flexibility by offering an allowance of remote work days to use throughout the year. An engaged workforce is necessary for accomplishing organizational objectives and our portfolio of employee experience initiatives demonstrates our commitment to provide employees an engaging environment throughout all stages of their careers. We offer professional development opportunities that are designed to prepare employees for future career growth. Employees have access to skills enhancement training and programs as well as a generous tuition reimbursement program for higher education. We also grow and develop our employees by offering talent mobility opportunities such as expanded leadership experience, job shadowing, cross-training, stretch assignments, and formal career development programs. Our employees also share in our values to give back and make a positive difference in their communities. We offer a volunteer program that provides employees with an allotment of paid hours annually to volunteer with eligible nonprofit organizations. We also offer a matching gifts program for donations to eligible nonprofit organizations. Diversity, Equity Inclusion Diversity, equity, and inclusion ("DEI") is integral to our business success. Our DEI efforts are led by a Chief Diversity Officer who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer, affirming our commitment to DEI from executive leadership. These efforts are further supported by a dedicated team of professionals including a Vice President of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. We recognize the importance of diverse backgrounds and experiences. Our recruiting strategy includes access to multiple talent channels. We work to expand our pool of potential talent to include an array of skills, backgrounds, and experiences. We also offer a Future Focus internship program that provides opportunities for college students to gain relevant and real-world business experience in the insurance industry as well as an apprentice program to create a bridge for talent from high schools and community colleges into our workforce. We are also intentional about leveraging talent from the neuro diverse population, engaging individuals to support various enterprise initiatives. We foster an inclusive workplace through the endorsement of nine affinity networks and five business resource groups. Affinity networks are employee-driven groups that focus on particular dimensions of diversity and are designed to foster greater awareness and a culture of inclusion. In support of our recruiting strategy, members of these networks engage with various colleges and universities throughout the country, including Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Business resource groups address business issues using a DEI lens. Through these groups, we are taking a broader approach to problem-solving and innovation by aligning cross-functional teams of employees to our business strategy. 5 Table of Contents Workforce Metrics We used the following human capital metrics as part of managing our business for the years ended December 31: 2023 2022 2021 Workforce size Full-time (1) 6,481 5,970 5,805 Part-time 24 23 30 Temporary (2) 51 45 41 Turnover (3) 9.0 % 11.2 % 8.0 % Voluntary 4.8 % 6.9 % 4.8 % Retirements 2.8 % 3.6 % 2.2 % Average tenure (4) 10.4 11.7 12.6 (1) Includes 50% of employees who provide claims and life insurance management services exclusively for the Exchange and its subsidiaries for all periods presented. The Exchange and its subsidiaries reimburse us monthly for the cost of these services. (2) Temporary employees are hired for short-term work and paid directly by us. (3) Turnover is calculated using the number of employees who exited, divided by the average headcount of the period and represents the percentage of employees who left voluntarily or involuntarily, including retirements. (4) Average tenure is calculated using the total number of years of employment, divided by average headcount of full-time and part-time employees for the period and represents the average number of years employees have been employed with the organization. The largest portion of our turnover continues to be voluntary turnover, excluding retirements, and remains lower than industry benchmark data. We continue to monitor turnover trends to determine the appropriate actions to ensure we are well positioned for the future. Government Regulation Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems, defined as two or more affiliated persons, one or more of which is an insurer. Indemnity and the Exchange, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, meet the definition of an insurance holding company system. Each insurance company in the holding company system is required to register with the insurance supervisory authority of its state of domicile and furnish information regarding the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management, or financial condition of the insurers within the system. Pursuant to these laws, the respective insurance departments may examine us and the Exchange and its wholly owned subsidiaries at any time, and may require disclosure and/or prior approval of certain transactions with the insurers and us, as an insurance holding company. All transactions within a holding company system affecting the member insurers of the holding company system must be fair and reasonable and any charges or fees for services performed must be reasonable. Approval by the applicable insurance commissioner is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the members within a holding company system. Website Access Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website at www.erieinsurance.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K are available free of charge, upon written request, by contacting Investor Relations, Erie Indemnity Company, 100 Erie Insurance Place, Erie, PA 16530, or calling (800) 458-0811. 6 Table of Contents