Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 123 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 123 Item 9B. Other Information 123 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 124 Item 11. Executive Compensation 125 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 154 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 155 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 156 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 158 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 158 Signatures E-9 iii EVERSOURCE ENERGY AND SUBSIDIARIES THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE AND SUBSIDIARIES SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Eversource," the "Company," "we," "our," and "us" refer to Eversource Energy and its consolidated subsidiaries. CL P, NSTAR Electric, and PSNH are each doing business as Eversource Energy. From time to time, we make statements concerning our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, assumptions of future events, future financial performance or growth and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can generally identify our forward-looking statements through the use of words or phrases such as "estimate," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "project," "believe," "forecast," "should," "could," and other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations, estimates, assumptions or projections of management and are not guarantees of future performance. These expectations, estimates, assumptions or projections may vary materially from actual results. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: cyberattacks or breaches, including those resulting in the compromise of the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the personal information of our customers, ability or inability to commence and complete our major strategic development projects and opportunities, acts of war or terrorism, physical attacks or grid disturbances that may damage and disrupt our electric transmission and electric, natural gas, and water distribution systems, actions or inaction of local, state and federal regulatory, public policy and taxing bodies, substandard performance of third-party suppliers and service providers, fluctuations in weather patterns, including extreme weather due to climate change, changes in business conditions, which could include disruptive technology or development of alternative energy sources related to our current or future business model, contamination of, or disruption in, our water supplies, changes in economic conditions, including impact on interest rates, tax policies, and customer demand and payment ability, changes in levels or timing of capital expenditures, disruptions in the capital markets or other events that make our access to necessary capital more difficult or costly, changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policy, including compliance with environmental laws and regulations, changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations, actions of rating agencies, and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors. Other risk factors are detailed in our reports filed with the SEC and updated as necessary, and we encourage you to consult such disclosures. All such factors are difficult to predict and contain uncertainties that may materially affect our actual results, many of which are beyond our control. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, as each speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and, except as required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors, nor can we assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. For more information, see Item 1A , Risk Factors, included in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also describes material contingencies and critical accounting policies in the accompanying Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Combined Notes to Financial Statements . We encourage you to review these items. 1 EVERSOURCE ENERGY AND SUBSIDIARIES THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I Item 1. Business Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for definitions of defined terms and abbreviations used in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K. Eversource Energy, headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and Hartford, Connecticut, is a public utility holding company subject to regulation by the FERC under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. We are engaged primarily in the energy delivery business through the following wholly-owned utility subsidiaries: The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL P), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut; NSTAR Electric Company (NSTAR Electric), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of eastern and western Massachusetts and owns solar power facilities; Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of New Hampshire; NSTAR Gas Company (NSTAR Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Massachusetts; Yankee Gas Services Company (Yankee Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut; and Eversource Aquarion Holdings, Inc. (Aquarion), a utility holding company that owns three separate regulated water utility subsidiaries and collectively serves residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal and fire protection customers in parts of Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH also serve New England customers through Eversource Energy's electric transmission business. Along with NSTAR Gas and Yankee Gas, each is doing business as Eversource Energy in its respective service territory. Eversource Energy, CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH each report their financial results separately. We also include information in this report on a segment basis for Eversource Energy. Eversource Energy has four reportable segments: electric distribution, electric transmission, natural gas distribution and water distribution. These segments represent substantially all of Eversource Energy's total consolidated revenues. CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH do not report separate business segments. ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT Eversource Energy's electric distribution segment consists of the distribution businesses of CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH, which are engaged in the distribution of electricity to retail customers in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, respectively, and the solar power facilities of NSTAR Electric, and the generation facilities of PSNH before such facilities were sold in January and August 2018. ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CONNECTICUT THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY CL P's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2019, CL P furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.26 million customers in 149 cities and towns in Connecticut, covering an area of approximately 4,400 square miles. CL P does not own any electric generation facilities. Rates CL P is subject to regulation by the PURA, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities. CL P's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services. CL P's retail rates include a delivery service component, which includes distribution, transmission, conservation, renewable energy programs and other charges that are assessed on all customers. 2 Under Connecticut law, all of CL P's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while CL P remains their electric distribution company. For those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier, under SS rates for customers with less than 500 kilowatts of demand (residential customers and small and medium commercial and industrial customers), and LRS rates for customers with 500 kilowatts or more of demand (larger commercial and industrial customers), CL P purchases power under standard offer contracts and passes the cost of the purchased power to customers through a combined charge on customers' bills. The rates established by the PURA for CL P are comprised of the following: An electric GSC, which recovers energy-related costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers that have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers. The GSC is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A revenue decoupling adjustment that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by the PURA of $1.099 billion effective May 1, 2018, $1.127 billion effective May 1, 2019, and $1.158 billion effective May 1, 2020. These pre-established levels of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement are also subject to adjustment at each of these dates in accordance with provisions of the April 2018 rate case settlement agreement. A distribution charge, which includes a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge to collect the costs of building and expanding the infrastructure to deliver electricity to customers, as well as ongoing operating costs to maintain the infrastructure. An Electric System Improvements (ESI) charge, which collects the costs of building and expanding the infrastructure to deliver electricity to customers above the level recovered through the distribution charge. The ESI also recovers costs associated with CL P s system resiliency program. The ESI is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. An FMCC, which recovers any costs imposed by the FERC as part of the New England Standard Market Design, including locational marginal pricing, locational installed capacity payments, and any costs approved by the PURA to reduce these charges. The FMCC has both a bypassable component and a non-bypassable component, and is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market. The transmission charge is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A CTA charge, assessed to recover stranded costs associated with electric industry restructuring such as various IPP contracts. The CTA is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. An SBC, established to fund expenses associated with various hardship and low-income programs. The SBC is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A Renewable Energy Investment Charge, which is used to promote investment in renewable energy sources. Amounts collected by this charge are deposited into the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund and administered by the Connecticut Green Bank. A conservation charge, comprised of both a statutory rate and Conservation Adjustment Mechanism (CAM) established to implement cost-effective energy conservation programs and market transformation initiatives. The conservation charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers through an approved adjustment to the following year s energy conservation spending plan budget. As required by regulation, CL P has entered into long-term contracts for the purchase of (i) products from renewable energy facilities, which may include energy, renewable energy certificates, or capacity, (ii) capacity-related contracts with generation facilities, and (iii) contracts for peaking capacity. Some of these contracts are subject to sharing agreements with UI, whereby CL P is responsible for 80 percent and UI for 20 percent of the net costs or benefits. CL P's portion of the costs and benefits of these contracts will be paid by, or refunded to, CL P's customers. Distribution Rate Case : CL P's distribution rates were established in an April 2018 PURA-approved rate case settlement agreement with rates effective May 1, 2018. 3 Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply As noted above, CL P does not own any generation assets and purchases energy supply to serve its SS and LRS loads from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals. During 2019, CL P supplied approximately 46 percent of its customer load at SS or LRS rates while the other 54 percent of its customer load had migrated to competitive energy suppliers. In terms of the total number of CL P customers, this equates to 25 percent being on competitive supply, while 75 percent remain with SS or LRS. Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on CL P's electric distribution business or its operating income. CL P periodically enters into full requirements contracts for SS loads for periods of up to one year. CL P typically enters into full requirements contracts for LRS loads every three months. Currently, CL P has full requirements contracts in place for 100 percent of its SS loads for the first half of 2020. For the second half of 2020, CL P has 70 percent of its SS load under full requirements contracts and intends to purchase an additional 30 percent of full requirements. None of the SS load for 2021 has been procured. CL P has full requirements contracts in place for its LRS loads through June 2020 and intends to purchase 100 percent of full requirements for the remainder of 2020. ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION MASSACHUSETTS NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY NSTAR Electric's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2019, NSTAR Electric furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.44 million customers in Boston and 139 cities and towns in eastern and western Massachusetts, including Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard and the greater Springfield metropolitan area, covering an aggregate area of approximately 3,200 square miles. NSTAR Electric does not own any generating facilities that are used to supply customers and purchases its energy requirements from competitive energy suppliers. NSTAR Electric installed and completed nineteen new solar power facilities for a total of 62 MW by the end of 2019. These solar sites are in addition to the 8 MW of solar power facilities constructed between 2010 and 2014. NSTAR Electric now owns, operates and maintains a total of 70 MW of solar power facilities on twenty-two sites in Massachusetts. NSTAR Electric will sell energy from the new facilities into the ISO-NE market, with proceeds credited to customers. Rates NSTAR Electric is subject to regulation by the DPU, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, acquisition of securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities. The present general rate structure for NSTAR Electric consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services. Under Massachusetts law, all customers of NSTAR Electric are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while NSTAR Electric remains their electric distribution company. NSTAR Electric purchases power from competitive suppliers on behalf of, and passes the related cost through to, its customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier (basic service). Electric distribution companies in Massachusetts are required to obtain and resell power to retail customers through basic service for those who choose not to buy energy from a competitive energy supplier. Most of the residential customers of NSTAR Electric have continued to buy their power from NSTAR Electric at basic service rates. Most commercial and industrial customers have switched to a competitive energy supplier. The Cape Light Compact, an inter-governmental organization consisting of the 21 towns and two counties on Cape Cod and Martha's Vineyard, serves 200,000 customers through the delivery of energy efficiency programs, consumer advocacy, competitive electricity supply and green power options. NSTAR Electric continues to provide electric service to these customers including the delivery of power, maintenance of infrastructure, capital investment, meter reading, billing, and customer service. The rates established by the DPU for NSTAR Electric are comprised of the following: A basic service charge that represents the collection of energy costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers that have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers, including costs related to charge-offs of uncollectible energy costs from customers. Basic service rates are reset every six months (every three months for large commercial and industrial customers). Additionally, the DPU has authorized NSTAR Electric to recover the cost of its NSTAR Green wind contracts through the basic service charge. Basic service costs are reconciled annually, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A distribution charge, which includes a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge to collect the costs of building and expanding the distribution infrastructure to deliver electricity to its destination, as well as ongoing operating costs. A revenue decoupling adjustment that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by the DPU of $956 million on an annualized basis for 2018 and $988 million for 2019. Annual base distribution amounts are adjusted for inflation and filed for approval by the DPU on an annual basis, until the next rate case. 4 A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market. The transmission charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A transition charge that represents costs to be collected primarily from previously held investments in generating plants, costs related to existing above-market power contracts, and contract costs related to long-term power contract buy-outs. The transition charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A renewable energy charge that represents a legislatively-mandated charge to support the Massachusetts Renewable Energy Trust Fund. An energy efficiency charge that represents a legislatively-mandated charge to collect costs for energy efficiency programs. The energy efficiency charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. Reconciling adjustment charges that recover certain DPU-approved costs, including pension and PBOP benefits, low income customer discounts, credits issued to net-metering facilities installed by customers, payments to solar facilities qualified under the state solar renewable energy target program, attorney general consultant expenses, long-term renewable contracts, company-owned solar facilities, vegetation management costs, credits related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, grid modernization costs, and storm restoration. These charges are reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. NSTAR Electric has signed long-term commitments for the purchase of energy from renewable energy facilities. Distribution Rate Case: NSTAR Electric's distribution rates were established in a 2017 DPU-approved rate case with rates effective February 1, 2018. Service Quality Metrics: NSTAR Electric is subject to service quality (SQ) metrics that measure safety, reliability and customer service, and could be required to pay to customers a SQ charge of up to 2.5 percent of annual transmission and distribution revenues for failing to meet such metrics. NSTAR Electric will not be required to pay a SQ charge for its 2019 performance as the company achieved results at or above target for all of its SQ metrics in 2019. Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply As noted above, NSTAR Electric does not own any generation assets (other than 70 MW of solar power facilities that produce energy that is sold into the ISO-NE market) and purchases its energy requirements from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals issued periodically, consistent with DPU regulations. NSTAR Electric enters into supply contracts for basic service for approximately 45 percent of its residential and small commercial and industrial (C I) customers twice per year for twelve-month terms. NSTAR Electric enters into supply contracts for basic service for 18 percent of large C I customers every three months. During 2019, NSTAR Electric supplied approximately 44 percent of its residential customer load, 31 percent of its small C I customer load, and 8 percent of its large C I customer load at basic service rates. The remainder of its customer load was distributed between municipal aggregation and competitive supply. Because customer migration is limited to energy supply service, it has no impact on the delivery business or operating income of NSTAR Electric. ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION NEW HAMPSHIRE PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE PSNH's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2019, PSNH furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 523,000 retail customers in 211 cities and towns in New Hampshire, covering an area of approximately 5,630 square miles. On January 10, 2018, PSNH completed the sale of its thermal generation assets pursuant to a 2017 purchase and sale agreement. The thermal generation facilities included approximately 1,100 MW of coal, natural gas, biomass and oil-fired electricity generation facilities. On August 26, 2018, PSNH completed the sale of its hydroelectric generation assets pursuant to a separate 2017 purchase and sale agreement. For further information, see "Generation Divestiture" below. As of December 31, 2019, PSNH does not own any electric generation facilities. Rates PSNH is subject to regulation by the NHPUC, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities. Under New Hampshire law, all of PSNH's customers are entitled to choose competitive energy suppliers. During 2019, approximately 23 percent of all of PSNH's customers (approximately 56 percent of load) were taking service from competitive energy suppliers. 5 The rates established by the NHPUC for PSNH are comprised of the following: A default energy service charge recovers energy-related costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers that have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers. Through March 31, 2018, the default energy service charge recovered the costs of PSNH's generation, as well as purchased power, and included an allowed ROE of 9.81 percent. Effective April 1, 2018, as a result of the completion of the divestiture of its non-hydro generation assets, PSNH purchased power for retail customers who had not chosen a competitive supplier through a periodic market solicitation with the rate set to recover the cost of that power, statutorily mandated renewable portfolio standard costs and the continued cost associated with the ownership of the Hydro generation units until the completion of the divestiture of the hydro units in August 2018. Effective September 1, 2018, any remaining costs from ownership of generation are recovered as part of the SCRC described below. A distribution charge, which includes kilowatt-hour and/or demand-based charges to recover costs related to the maintenance and operation of PSNH's infrastructure to deliver power to its destination, as well as power restoration and service costs. It also includes a customer charge to collect the cost of providing service to a customer; such as the installation, maintenance, reading and replacement of meters and maintaining accounts and records. A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market. An SCRC, which allows PSNH to recover its stranded costs, including above-market expenses incurred under mandated power purchase obligations, other long-term investments and obligations, and the remaining costs associated with the 2018 sales of its generation facilities. An SBC, which funds energy efficiency programs for all customers, as well as assistance programs for residential customers within certain income guidelines. PSNH has signed long-term commitments for the purchase of energy from renewable energy facilities. The default energy service charge and SCRC rates change semi-annually and the transmission and SBC rates change annually. These rates are reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the NHPUC, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. Distribution Rate Case: PSNH distribution rates were last established in a settlement approved by the NHPUC in 2010. Prior to the expiration of that settlement on June 30, 2015, the NHPUC approved the continuation of those rates, and increased funding via rates, of PSNH's reliability enhancement program. On April 26, 2019, PSNH filed an application with the NHPUC for approval of a temporary annual base distribution rate increase of approximately $33 million, effective July 1, 2019. On June 27, 2019, the NHPUC approved a settlement agreement that was reached by PSNH, the NHPUC Staff, the Office of the Consumer Advocate, and another settling party, to implement a temporary annual base distribution rate increase of $28.3 million. Although new rates were implemented on August 1, 2019 to customers, the provisions of the temporary base distribution rate increase were effective July 1, 2019. The settlement agreement also permits PSNH to recover approximately $68.5 million in unrecovered storm costs over a five-year period beginning August 1, 2019, with debt carrying charges, which is included in the temporary rate increase. On May 28, 2019, PSNH filed an application with the NHPUC for a permanent increase in base distribu