Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 Information About Our Executive Officers 26 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Removed and Reserved 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 143 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 143 Item 9B. Other Information 143 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 144 Item 11. Executive Compensation 144 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 144 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 145 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 145 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 147 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 147 Signatures E- 9 iii EVERSOURCE ENERGY AND SUBSIDIARIES THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE AND SUBSIDIARIES SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "Eversource," the "Company," "we," "our," and "us" refer to Eversource Energy and its consolidated subsidiaries. CL P, NSTAR Electric, and PSNH are each doing business as Eversource Energy. We make statements concerning our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, assumptions of future events, future financial performance or growth and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of U.S. federal securities laws. You can generally identify our forward-looking statements through the use of words or phrases such as "estimate," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "project," "believe," "forecast," "would," "should," "could," and other similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those included in our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations, estimates, assumptions or projections of management and are not guarantees of future performance. These expectations, estimates, assumptions or projections may vary materially from actual results. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that may cause our actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to: cyberattacks or breaches, including those resulting in the compromise of the confidentiality of our proprietary information and the personal information of our customers, our ability to complete the offshore wind investments sales process on the timelines, terms and pricing we expect; if we and the counterparties are unable to satisfy all closing conditions and consummate the purchase and sale transactions with respect to our offshore wind assets; if Sunrise Wind does not win in the OREC contract solicitation process; if we are unable to qualify for investment tax credits related to these projects; if we experience variability in the projected construction costs of the offshore wind projects, if there is a deterioration of market conditions in the offshore wind industry; and if the projects do not commence operation as scheduled or within budget or are not completed, disruptions in the capital markets or other events that make our access to necessary capital more difficult or costly, changes in economic conditions, including impact on interest rates, tax policies, and customer demand and payment ability, ability or inability to commence and complete our major strategic development projects and opportunities, acts of war or terrorism, physical attacks or grid disturbances that may damage and disrupt our electric transmission and electric, natural gas, and water distribution systems, actions or inaction of local, state and federal regulatory, public policy and taxing bodies, substandard performance of third-party suppliers and service providers, fluctuations in weather patterns, including extreme weather due to climate change, changes in business conditions, which could include disruptive technology or development of alternative energy sources related to our current or future business model, contamination of, or disruption in, our water supplies, changes in levels or timing of capital expenditures, changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policy, including compliance with environmental laws and regulations, changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations, actions of rating agencies, and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors. Other risk factors are detailed in our reports filed with the SEC and are updated as necessary and available on our website at www.eversource.com and on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov, and we encourage you to consult such disclosures. All such factors are difficult to predict and contain uncertainties that may materially affect our actual results, many of which are beyond our control. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, as each speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and, except as required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all of such factors, nor can we assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. For more information, see Item 1A , Risk Factors, included in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also describes material contingencies and critical accounting policies in the accompanying Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Combined Notes to Financial Statements . We encourage you to review these items. 1 EVERSOURCE ENERGY AND SUBSIDIARIES THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE AND SUBSIDIARIES PART I Item 1. Business Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for definitions of defined terms and abbreviations used in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K. Eversource Energy (Eversource), headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and Hartford, Connecticut, is a public utility holding company subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. We are engaged primarily in the energy delivery business through the following wholly-owned utility subsidiaries: The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL P), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut; NSTAR Electric Company (NSTAR Electric), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of eastern and western Massachusetts and owns solar power facilities, and its wholly-owned subsidiary Harbor Electric Energy Company (HEEC), also a regulated electric utility that distributes electric energy to its sole customer; Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of New Hampshire; NSTAR Gas Company (NSTAR Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Massachusetts; Eversource Gas Company of Massachusetts (EGMA), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Massachusetts; Yankee Gas Services Company (Yankee Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut; and Aquarion Company (Aquarion), a utility holding company that owns five separate regulated water utility subsidiaries and collectively serves residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal and fire protection customers in parts of Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH also serve New England customers through Eversource's electric transmission business. Along with NSTAR Gas, EGMA and Yankee Gas, each is doing business as Eversource Energy in its respective service territory. Eversource, CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH each report their financial results separately. We also include information in this report on a segment basis for Eversource. Eversource has four reportable segments: electric distribution, electric transmission, natural gas distribution and water distribution. These segments represent substantially all of Eversource's total consolidated revenues. CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH do not report separate business segments. Eversource has an offshore wind business, which includes 50 percent ownership interests in three offshore wind projects and a tax equity investment in one of the projects. For further information, see "Offshore Wind Business below. ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT Eversource's electric distribution segment consists of the distribution businesses of CL P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH, which are engaged in the distribution of electricity to retail customers in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, respectively, and the solar power facilities of NSTAR Electric. 2 ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CONNECTICUT THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY CL P's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2023, CL P furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.28 million customers in 157 cities and towns in Connecticut. CL P does not own any electric generation facilities. Rates CL P is subject to regulation by the Connecticut Public Utilities Regulatory Authority (PURA), which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities. CL P's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services. CL P's retail rates include a delivery service component, which includes distribution, transmission, conservation, renewable energy programs and other charges that are assessed on all customers. Under Connecticut law, all of CL P's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while CL P remains their electric distribution company. For those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier, CL P purchases power on behalf of, and passes the related cost without mark-up through to, those customers under standard service (SS) rates for customers with less than 500 kilowatts of demand (residential customers and small and medium commercial and industrial customers), and supplier of last resort service (LRS) rates for customers with 500 kilowatts or more of demand (larger commercial and industrial customers). CL P charges customers only the amount that it pays generators for producing electricity and does not earn a profit on the cost of electricity. The rates established by PURA for CL P are comprised of the following: An electric generation service charge, which recovers energy-related costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers who have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers. The generation service charge is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A distribution charge, which includes a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge to collect the costs of building and expanding the infrastructure to deliver electricity to customers, as well as ongoing operating costs to maintain the infrastructure. A revenue decoupling adjustment that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by PURA. An Electric System Improvements (ESI) charge, which collects the costs of building and expanding the infrastructure to deliver electricity to customers above the level recovered through the distribution charge. The ESI also recovers costs associated with CL P s system resiliency program. The ESI is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A Federally Mandated Congestion Charge (FMCC), which recovers any costs imposed by the FERC as part of the New England Standard Market Design, including locational marginal pricing, locational installed capacity payments, any costs approved by PURA to reduce these charges, as well as other costs approved by PURA. The FMCC has both a bypassable component and a non-bypassable component, and is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market. The transmission charge is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A Competitive Transition Assessment (CTA) charge, assessed to recover stranded costs associated with electric industry restructuring such as various IPP contracts. The CTA is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A Systems Benefits Charge (SBC), established to fund expenses associated with various hardship and low-income programs. The SBC is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A Renewable Energy Investment Charge, which is used to promote investment in renewable energy sources. Amounts collected by this charge are deposited into the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund and administered by the Connecticut Green Bank. A Conservation Adjustment Mechanism (CAM) charge established to implement cost-effective energy conservation programs and market transformation initiatives. The CAM charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers through an approved adjustment to the following year s energy conservation spending plan budget. 3 As required by regulation, CL P has entered into long-term contracts for the purchase of (i) products from renewable energy facilities, which may include energy, renewable energy certificates, or capacity, (ii) capacity-related contracts with generation facilities, and (iii) contracts for peaking capacity. Some of these contracts are subject to sharing agreements with UI, whereby CL P is responsible for 80 percent and UI for 20 percent of the net costs or benefits. CL P's portion of the costs and benefits of these contracts will be paid by, or refunded to, CL P's customers. Distribution Rate Case : CL P's distribution rates were established in an April 2018 PURA-approved rate case settlement agreement with rates effective May 1, 2018, and incremental step adjustments effective May 1, 2019 and May 1, 2020. CL P Settlement Agreement : In accordance with a 2021 settlement agreement, CL P agreed that its current base distribution rates would be frozen, subject to certain customer credits, until no earlier than January 1, 2024. The rate freeze applied only to base distribution rates (including storm costs) and not to other rate mechanisms such as the retail rate components, rate reconciling mechanisms, formula rates and any other adjustment mechanisms. The rate freeze also did not apply to any cost recovery mechanism outside of the base distribution rates with regard to grid-modernization initiatives or any other proceedings that were either pending or that could be initiated during the rate freeze period, that could have placed additional obligations on CL P. The approval of the settlement agreement satisfied the Connecticut statute of rate review requirements that requires electric utilities to file a distribution rate case within four years of the last rate case. For further information, see "Regulatory Developments and Rate Matters - Connecticut" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CL P Performance Based Rate Making : PURA currently has an open proceeding to evaluate and eventually implement performance based regulation (PBR) for electric distribution companies. For further information, see "Regulatory Developments and Rate Matters - Connecticut" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply As noted above, CL P does not own any generation assets and purchases energy supply to serve its SS and LRS loads from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals. During 2023, CL P supplied approximately 56 percent of its customer load at SS or LRS rates while the other 44 percent of its customer load had migrated to competitive energy suppliers. In terms of the total number of CL P customers, this equates to 25 percent being on competitive supply, while 75 percent remain with SS or LRS. Because customer migration is limited to energy supply service, it has no impact on CL P's electric distribution business or its operating income. As approved by PURA, CL P periodically enters into full requirements supply contracts for SS loads for periods of up to one year. CL P typically enters into full requirements supply contracts for LRS loads every three months. If CL P does not obtain full requirements supply contracts for 100 percent of the customer load for any period, it is authorized by PURA to meet the remaining load obligations directly through the ISO-NE wholesale markets. Currently, CL P has full requirements supply contracts in place for 100 percent of its SS load for the first half of 2024. For the second half of 2024, CL P has 70 percent of its SS load under full requirements supply contracts and intends to purchase an additional 30 percent of full requirements. Ten percent of the SS load for 2025 has been procured. CL P obtained a full requirements supply contract for its LRS load through June 2024 and intends to purchase 100 percent of full requirements for LRS for the remainder of 2024. CL P is prepared to self-manage the LRS load if unable to obtain full requirements supply contracts for LRS. ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION MASSACHUSETTS NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY NSTAR Electric's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2023, NSTAR Electric furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.49 million customers in 161 cities and towns in eastern and western Massachusetts, including Boston, Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard and the greater Springfield metropolitan area. NSTAR Electric does not own any generating facilities that are used to supply customers, and purchases its energy requirements from competitive energy suppliers. NSTAR Electric owns, operates and maintains a total of 70 MW of solar power facilities on twenty-two sites in Massachusetts. NSTAR Electric sells energy from these facilities into the ISO-NE market, with proceeds credited to customers. Rates NSTAR Electric is subject to regulation by the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities (DPU), which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, acquisition of securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities. The present general rate structure for NSTAR Electric consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services. Under Massachusetts law, all customers of NSTAR Electric are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while NSTAR Electric remains their electric distribution company. For those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier, NSTAR Electric purchases power from competitive suppliers on behalf of, and passes the related cost without mark-up through to, those customers (basic service). Electric distribution companies in Massachusetts are required to obtain and resell power to retail customers through basic service for those who choose not to buy energy from a competitive energy supplier. NSTAR Electric charges customers only the amount that it pays generators for producing electricity and does not earn a profit on the cost of electricity. 4 The rates established by the DPU for NSTAR Electric are comprised of the following: A basic service charge that represents the collection of energy costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers who have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers, including costs related to charge-offs of uncollectible energy costs from customers. Basic service rates are reset every six months (every three months for large commercial and industrial customers). Additionally, the DPU has authorized NSTAR Electric to recover the cost of its NSTAR Green wind contracts through the basic service charge. Basic service costs are reconciled annually, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A distribution charge, which includes a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge to collect the costs of building and expanding the distribution infrastructure to deliver electricity to its destination, as well as ongoing operating costs. A revenue decoupling adjustment that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by the DPU. Annual base distribution amounts are adjusted for inflation and certain other items and filed for approval by the DPU on an annual basis, until the next rate case. A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market. The transmission charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A transition charge that represents costs to be collected primarily from previously held investments in generating plants, costs related to existing above-market power contracts, and contract costs related to long-term power contract buy-outs. The transition charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. A renewable energy charge that represents a legislatively-mandated charge to support the Massachusetts Renewable Energy Trust Fund. An energy efficiency charge that represents a legislatively-mandated charge to collect costs for energy efficiency programs. The energy efficiency charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. Reconciling adjustment charges that recover certain DPU-approved costs, including pension and PBOP benefits, low income customer discounts, credits issued to net metering facilities installed by customers, payments to solar facilities qualified under the state solar renewable energy target program, attorney general consultant expenses, long-term renewable contracts, company-owned solar facilities, vegetation management costs, storm restoration, credits related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, grid modernization costs, advanced metering infrastructure costs, electric vehicle make-ready infrastructure costs and provisional system planning charges. These charges are reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers. As approved by the DPU, NSTAR Electric has signed long-term commitments for the purchase of energy from renewable energy facilities. Distribution Rate Case : NSTAR Electric distribution rates were established in a November 2022 DPU-approved rate case, with rates effective January 1, 2023. The DPU approved a renewal of the PBR plan originally authorized in its last rate case for a five-year term, with a corresponding stay out provision. The PBR plan term has the possibility of a five-year extension. The PBR mechanism allows for an annual adjustment to base distribution rates for inflation, exogenous events and future capital additions based on a historical five-year average of total capital additions. For further information, see "Regulatory Developments and Rate Matters - Massachusetts" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Service Quality Metrics : NSTAR Electric is subject to service quality (SQ) metrics that measure safety, reliability and customer service, and could be required to pay to customers a SQ charge of up to 2.5 percent of annual transmission and distribution revenues for failing to meet such metrics. NSTAR Electric will not be required to pay a SQ charge for its 2023 performance as the company achieved results at or above target for all of its SQ metrics in 2023. Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply As noted above, NSTAR Electric does not own generation assets (other than 70 MW of solar power facilities that produce energy that is sold into the ISO-NE market) and purchases its energy supply requirements from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals issued periodically, consistent with DPU regulations. As approved by the DPU, NSTAR Electric enters into supply contracts for basic service for approximately 32 percent of its residential and 29 percent of its small commercial and industrial (C I) customers twice per year for twelve-month terms. NSTAR Electric enters into supply contracts for basic service for 7 percent of its large C I customers every three months. During 2023, NSTAR Electric supplied approximately 18 percent of its overall customer load at basic service rates. The remaining 82 percent of its overall customer load was served either by municipal aggregation or competitive supply. Because customer migration is limited to energy supply service, it has no impact on NSTAR Electric s electric distribution business or its operating income. 5 ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION NEW HAMPSHIRE PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE PSNH's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2023, PSNH furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 539,000 retail customers in 215 cities and towns in New Hampshire. PSNH does not own any electric generation facilities. Rates PSNH is subject to regulation by the New Hampshire Public Utilities Commission (NHPUC), which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities. Under New Hampshire law, all of PSNH's customers are entitled to choose competitive energy suppliers. For those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier, PSNH purchases power on behalf of, and passes the related cost without mark-up through to, those customers (default energy service). PSNH charges customers only the amount that it pays generators for producing electricity and does not earn a profit on the cost of electricity. The rates established by the NHPUC for PSNH are comprised of the following: A default energy service charge recovers energy-related costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers who have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers. A distribution charge, which includes kilowatt-hour and/or demand-based charges to recover costs related to the maintenance and operation of PSNH's infrastructure to deliver power to its destination, as well as power restoration and service costs. It also includes a customer charge to collect the cost of providing service to a customer; such as the installation, maintenance, reading and replacement of meters and maintaining accounts and records. A Transmission Charge Adjustment Mechanism