Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 41 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 45 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 58 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58 Item 9B. Other Information 59 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 60 Item 11. Executive Compensation 60 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 60 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 60 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 60 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 61 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 61 Signatures S-1 v Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are described in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, "Forward-Looking Statements." Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, including in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. Item 1. Business OVERVIEW Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex"), a Maryland corporation, is an S P 500 company that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Essex owns all of its interest in its real estate and other investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership" or "EPLP"). Essex is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2019 , had an approximately 96.6% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership. In this report, the terms the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., the Operating Partnership and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Essex and/or the Operating Partnership. Essex has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994. Essex completed its initial public offering on June 13, 1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company for financial reporting purposes. The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities, located along the West Coast of the United States. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company owned or had ownership interests in 250 operating apartment communities, aggregating 60,570 apartment homes, excluding the Company's ownership in preferred equity co-investments, loan investments, one operating commercial building, and a development pipeline comprised of five consolidated projects and two unconsolidated joint venture projects aggregating 1,960 apartment homes (collectively, the "Portfolio"). The Company s website address is http://www.essex.com. The Company s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). BUSINESS STRATEGIES The following is a discussion of the Company s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management. Business Strategies Research Driven Approach to Investments The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge. The Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating markets and focusing on the following strategic criteria: Major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million; Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways; Rental demand enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and Housing demand based on job growth, proximity to jobs, high median incomes and the quality of life including related commuting factors. Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly. The Company seeks to increase its portfolio 1 Table of Contents allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions. Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields. Property Operations The Company manages its communities by focusing on activities that may generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation. The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below: Property Management Oversee delivery and quality of the housing provided to our tenants and manage the properties financial performance. Capital Preservation The Company's asset management services are responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company s communities. Business Planning and Control Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with significant investment decisions. These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers, the operations leadership team, and senior management. Development and Redevelopment The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company s communities. CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Acquisitions of Real Estate Interests Acquisitions are an important component of the Company s business plan, and during 2019 , the Company acquired ownership interests in eight communities comprised of 2,007 apartment homes for a total contract price of $856.5 million . The following is a summary of 2019 acquisitions ($ in millions): Property Name Location Apartment Homes Essex Ownership Percentage Ownership Quarter in 2019 Purchase Price One South Market (1) San Jose, CA 312 100 % EPLP Q1 $ 80.6 Brio (2) Walnut Creek, CA 300 N/A EPLP Q2 164.9 (3) The Courtyards at 65th Street Emeryville, CA 331 50 % WESCO V Q3 178.0 (3) 777 Hamilton Menlo Park, CA 195 50 % BEX IV Q3 148.0 (3) Township Redwood City, CA 132 100 % EPLP Q3 88.7 Velo and Ray Seattle, WA 308 50 % WESCO V Q4 133.0 (3) Pure Redmond Redmond, WA 105 100 % EPLP Q4 39.1 Hidden Valley (4) Simi Valley, CA 324 100 % EPLP Q4 24.2 Total 2019 2,007 $ 856.5 (1) In March 2019, the Company purchased the joint venture partner's 45% membership interest in the One South Market co-investment based on an estimated property valuation of $179.0 million. In conjunction with the acquisition, $86.0 million of mortgage debt that encumbered the property was repaid. (2) In June 2019, the Company acquired Brio for a total contract price of $164.9 million in a DownREIT transaction. As part of the acquisition, the Company assumed $98.7 million of mortgage debt in the community. (3) Contract prices represent the total contract price at 100%. (4) In December 2019, the Company purchased the joint venture partner's 25% ownership interest in Hidden Valley, a consolidated community, based on an estimated property valuation of $97.0 million and an encumbrance of $29.7 million of mortgage debt. 2 Table of Contents Dispositions of Real Estate As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all of its communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria. The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other real estate investments, or to repay debts. The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations. Generally, the Company seeks to have any impact of longer-term earnings dilution resulting from these dispositions offset by the positive impact from reinvesting proceeds. In October 2019 , a Canada Pension Plan Investment Board ("CPPIB" or "CPP") joint venture, in which the Company had a 55.0% ownership interest at the time, sold Mosso, a 463 unit apartment home community located in San Francisco, CA, for $311.0 million, resulting in a gain of $50.2 million for the Company. In October 2019, the Company sold a land parcel adjacent to the Mylo development community located in Santa Clara, CA, for $10.8 million and recorded an immaterial gain. In December 2019, the Company sold land located in San Mateo, CA, that had been held for future development for $12.5 million and recorded a loss of $3.2 million. Development Pipeline The Company defines development projects as new communities that are being constructed, or are newly constructed and are in a phase of lease-up and have not yet reached stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company's development pipeline was comprised of five consolidated projects under development and two unconsolidated joint venture projects under development aggregating 1,960 apartment homes, with total incurred costs of $1.0 billion , and estimated remaining project costs of approximately $222.0 million , $193.0 million of which represents the Company's estimated remaining costs, for total estimated project costs of $1.3 billion . The Company defines predevelopment projects as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with an expected high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company had various consolidated predevelopment projects. The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale. 3 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information regarding the Company s development pipeline ($ in millions): As of 12/31/2019 Essex Estimated Incurred Estimated Development Pipeline Location Ownership% Apartment Homes Project Cost (1) Project Cost (1) Development Projects - Consolidated Station Park Green - Phase II San Mateo, CA 100% 199 $ 135 $ 141 Station Park Green - Phase III San Mateo, CA 100% 172 119 134 Station Park Green - Phase IV San Mateo, CA 100% 107 16 94 Mylo (2) Santa Clara, CA 100% 476 197 226 Wallace on Sunset (3) Hollywood, CA 100% 200 70 105 Total Development Projects - Consolidated 1,154 537 700 Development Projects - Joint Venture Patina at Midtown (4) San Jose, CA 50% 269 115 136 500 Folsom (5) San Francisco, CA 50% 537 377 415 Total Development Projects - Joint Venture 806 492 551 Predevelopment Projects - Consolidated Other Projects Various 100% 20 20 Total - Consolidated Predevelopment Projects 20 20 Grand Total - Development and Predevelopment Pipeline 1,960 $ 1,049 $ 1,271 (1) Includes costs related to the entire project, including both the Company's and joint venture partners' costs. Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects. For predevelopment projects, only incurred costs are included in estimated costs. (2) Mylo was previously named Gateway Village. (3) Wallace on Sunset was previously named Essex Hollywood. (4) Patina at Midtown was previously named Ohlone. (5) Estimated project cost for this development is net of a projected value for low-income housing tax credit proceeds and the value of the tax exempt bond structure. Redevelopment Pipeline The Company defines the redevelopment pipeline as existing properties owned or recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property improvement. During redevelopment, apartment homes may not be available for rent and, as a result, may have less than stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company had ownership interests in four major redevelopment communities aggregating 1,327 apartment homes with estimated redevelopment costs of $132.7 million , of which approximately $14.9 million remains to be expended. Long Term Debt During 2019 , the Company made regularly scheduled principal payments and loan payoffs of $951.6 million of its secured mortgage notes payable at an average interest rate of 4.2% . In February 2019, the Company issued $350.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on March 1, 2029, with a coupon rate of 4.000% per annum (the "2029 Notes"), which are payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2019. The 2029 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.188% of the principal amount thereof. The 2029 Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior 4 Table of Contents unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex Property Trust, Inc. In March 2019, the Company issued an additional $150.0 million of the 2029 Notes at a price of 100.717% of the principal amount thereof. These additional notes have substantially identical terms as the 2029 Notes issued in February 2019. The Company used the net proceeds of these offerings to repay indebtedness under its unsecured lines of credit and for other general corporate and working capital purposes. In August 2019, the Company issued $400.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on January 15, 2030, with a coupon rate of 3.000% per annum (the "2030 Notes"), which are payable on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2020. The 2030 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 98.632% of the principal amount thereof. The 2030 Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex Property Trust, Inc. In October 2019, the Company issued an additional $150.0 million of the 2030 notes at a price of 101.685% of the principal amount thereof. These additional notes have substantially identical terms as the 2030 Notes issued in August 2019. The Company used the net proceeds of these offerings to prepay certain secured indebtedness under outstanding mortgage notes, to repay indebtedness under its unsecured lines of credit and for other general corporate and working capital purposes. Bank Debt As of December 31, 2019 , Fitch Ratings, Moody s Investor Service, and Standard and Poor's ("S P") credit agencies rated Essex Property Trust, Inc. and Essex Portfolio, L.P. BBB+/Stable, Baa1/Stable, and BBB+/Stable, respectively. At December 31, 2019, the Company had two unsecured lines of credit aggregating $1.24 billion. The Company's $1.2 billion credit facility had an interest rate of the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.825%, with a scheduled maturity date in December 2022 with one 18-month extension, exercisable at the Company's option. In January 2020, the line of credit facility was amended such that the scheduled maturity date was extended to December 2023 with one 18-month extension, exercisable at the Company's option. The underlying interest rate on the amended line is based on a tiered rate structure tied to the Company's corporate ratings and is currently at LIBOR plus 0.825%. The Company's $35.0 million working capital unsecured line of credit had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.825%, with a scheduled maturity date in February 2021. Equity Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company issued 228,271 shares of common stock through its equity distribution program at an average price of $321.56 per share for proceeds of $73.4 million . As of December 31, 2019, there were no outstanding forward sale agreements, and $826.6 million of shares remain available to be sold under this program. In January 2019, the Company repurchased and retired 234,061 shares of its common stock totaling $57.0 million, including commissions, at an average price of $243.48 per share. In February 2019, the board of directors approved the replenishment of the stock repurchase plan such that, as of such date, the Company had $250.0 million of purchase authority remaining under the replenished plan. The Company did not repurchase any additional shares during the year ended December 31, 2019, such that as of December 31, 2019, the Company had $250.0 million of purchase authority remaining under the stock repurchase plan. Co-investments The Company has entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures or partnerships (including limited liability companies) through which we own an indirect economic interest in less than 100% of the community or land or other investments owned directly by the joint venture or partnership. For each joint venture the Company holds a non-controlling interest in the venture and earns customary management fees and may earn development fees, asset property management fees, and a promote interest. The Company has also made, and may continue in the future to make, preferred equity investments in various multifamily development projects. The Company earns a preferred rate of return on these investments. OFFICES AND EMPLOYEES The Company is headquartered in San Mateo, CA, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, CA; Irvine, CA; San Diego, CA and Bellevue, WA. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company had 1,822 employees. 5 Table of Contents INSURANCE The Company purchases general liability and property insurance coverage, including loss of rent, for each of its communities. The Company also purchases limited earthquake, terrorism, environmental and flood insurance. There are certain types of losses which may not be covered or could exceed coverage limits. The insurance programs are subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions in varying amounts. The Company utilizes a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC ("PWI") to self-insure certain earthquake and property losses. As of December 31, 2019 , PWI had cash and marketable securities of approximately $78.4 million , and is consolidated in the Company's financial statements. All of the Company's communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. The Company evaluates its financial loss exposure to seismic events by using actuarial loss models developed by the insurance industry and in most cases property vulnerability analysis based on structural evaluations by seismic consultants. The Company manages this exposure, where considered appropriate, desirable, and cost-effective, by upgrading properties to increase their resistance to forces caused by seismic events, by considering available funds and coverages provided by PWI and/or by purchasing seismic insurance. In most cases the Company also purchases limited earthquake insurance for certain properties owned by the Company's co-investments. In addition, the Company carries other types of insurance coverage related to a variety of risks and exposures. Based on market conditions, the Company may change or potentially eliminate insurance coverages, or increase levels of self-insurance. Further, the Company may incur losses, which could be material, due to uninsured risks, deductibles and self-insured retentions, and/or losses in excess of coverage limits. COMPETITION There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company s communities in attracting tenants. These include other apartment communities, condominiums and single-family homes. If the demand for the Company s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces competition from other REITs, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and/or develops. WORKING CAPITAL The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2020 . The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates, stock price, and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect the Company s plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS See the discussion under the caption, "Risks Related to Real Estate Investments and Our Operations - The Company s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion under the caption " The Company s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities" is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. OTHER MATTERS Certain Policies of the Company The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to 6 Table of Contents time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities underlying assets are real estate. The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, Northern California, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions. However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS For purposes of this section, the term "stockholders" means the holders of shares of Essex Property Trust, Inc. s common stock. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to Essex Property Trust, Inc. s stockholders and Essex Portfolio, L.P. s unitholders. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our Company, our properties and our business. Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual operating results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Investments and Operations General real estate investment risks may adversely affect property income and values. Real estate investments are subject to a variety of risks. If the communities and other real estate investments do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, cash flow and the ability to make distributions to Essex's stockholders or the Operating Partnership's unitholders will be adversely affected. Income from the communities may be further adversely affected by, among other things, the following factors: changes in the general or local economic climate, including layoffs, plant closings, industry slowdowns, relocations of significant local employers and other events negatively impacting local employment rates and wages and the local economy; local economic conditions in which the communities are located, such as oversupply of housing or a reduction in demand for rental housing; the attractiveness and desirability of our communities to tenants, including, without limitation, our technology offerings and our ability to identify and cost effectively implement new, relevant technologies, and to keep up with constantly changing consumer demand for the latest innovations; inflationary environments in which the costs to operate and maintain communities increase at a rate greater than our ability to increase rents, or deflationary environments where we may be exposed to declining rents more quickly under our short-term leases; competition from other available housing alternatives; changes in rent control or stabilization laws or other laws regulating housing; the Company s ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance; declines in the financial condition of our tenants, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some tenants; tenants' perceptions of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our communities and the neighborhoods where they are located; and changes in interest rates and availability of financing. As leases at the communities expire, tenants may enter into new leases on terms that are less favorable to the Company. Income and real estate values also may be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws, including, without limitation, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "Disabilities Act"), Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988 (the "FHAA"), permanent and temporary rent control laws, rent stabilization laws, other laws regulating housing that may prevent the Company from raising rents to offset increased operating expenses, and tax laws. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents, and the Company may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire. Substantially all of our apartment leases are for a term of one year or less. If the Company is unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then the Company s results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. With these short term leases, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. National and regional economic environments can negatively impact the Company s liquidity and operating results. The Company's forecast for the national economy assumes growth of the gross domestic product of the national economy and the economies of the west coast states. In the event of a recession, the Company could incur reductions in rental rates, occupancy levels, property valuations and increases in operating costs such as advertising and turnover expenses. A recession may affect consumer confidence and spending and negatively impact the volume and pricing of real estate transactions, which could negatively affect the Company s liquidity and its ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes to the economy. Furthermore, if residents do not experience increases in their income, they may be unable or unwilling to pay rent increases, and delinquencies in rent payments and rent defaults may increase. 8 Table of Contents Rent control, or other changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect the Company's operations or expose us to liability. The Company must own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop its properties in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to limited judicial or regulatory interpretations. These laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, rent control or stabilization laws, federal, state and local tax laws, landlord tenant laws, environmental laws, employment laws, immigration laws and other laws regulating housing or that are generally applicable to the Company's business and operations. Noncompliance with laws could expose the Company to liability. If the Company does not comply with any or all of these requirements, it may have to pay fines to government authorities o