Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. [Reserved] 36 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 49 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 49 Item 9B. Other Information 50 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 51 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 52 Item 11. Executive Compensation 52 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 52 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 52 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 52 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 53 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 53 Signatures S- 1 v Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are described in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, "Forward-Looking Statements." Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, including in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 1 Table of Contents Item 1. Business OVERVIEW Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex"), a Maryland corporation, is an S P 500 company that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Essex owns all of its interest in its real estate and other investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership" or "EPLP"). Essex is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2023, had an approximately 96.6% general partner interest in the Operating Partnership. In this report, the terms the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., the Operating Partnership and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Essex and/or the Operating Partnership. Essex has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994. Essex completed its initial public offering on June 13, 1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company for financial reporting purposes. The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities, located along the West Coast of the United States. As of December 31, 2023, the Company owned or had ownership interests in 252 operating apartment communities, aggregating 61,997 apartment homes, excluding the Company's ownership in preferred equity co-investments, loan investments, three operating commercial buildings, and a development pipeline comprised of one unconsolidated joint venture project and various predevelopment projects aggregating 264 apartment homes (collectively, the "Portfolio"). The Company s website address is http://www.essex.com. The Company s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on the Company's website shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this report. BUSINESS STRATEGIES The following is a discussion of the Company s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management. Business Strategies Research Driven Approach to Investments The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge. The Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating markets and focusing on the following strategic criteria: Major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million; Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways; Rental demand enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and Housing demand based on job growth, proximity to jobs, high median incomes and the quality of life including related commuting factors. Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly. The Company seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions. Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields. Property Operations The Company manages its communities by focusing on activities that may generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation. The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below: 2 Table of Contents Property Management Oversee delivery and quality of the housing provided to our tenants and manage the properties financial performance. Capital Preservation The Company's asset management services are responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company s communities. Business Planning and Control Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with significant investment decisions. These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers, the operations leadership team, and senior management. Development and Redevelopment The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company s communities. CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Acquisitions of Real Estate Interests The table below summarizes acquisition activity for the year ended December 31, 2023 ($ in millions): Property Name Location Apartment Homes Essex Ownership Percentage Ownership Quarter in 2023 Purchase Price Hacienda at Camarillo Oaks Camarillo, CA 73 100 % EPLP Q2 $ 23.1 Total 2023 73 $ 23.1 Dispositions of Real Estate As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all of its communities and sells those communities that no longer meet the Company's strategic criteria. The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities, other real estate investments or to fund other commitments. The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will the sale of these communities materially affect the Company's ongoing operations. In general, the Company seeks to offset the dilutive impact on long-term earnings and funds from operations from these dispositions through the positive impact of reinvestment of proceeds. The table below summarizes disposition activity for the year ended December 31, 2023 ($ in millions): Property Name (1) Location Apartment Homes Ownership Quarter in 2023 Sales Price CBC and The Sweeps Goleta, CA 239 EPLP Q1 $ 91.7 (2) Total 2023 239 $ 91.7 (1) In March 2023, the Company sold a land parcel located in Moorpark, CA, that had been held for future development, for $8.7 million and recognized a gain on sale of $4.7 million. (2) The Company recognized a $54.5 million gain on sale. 3 Table of Contents Development Pipeline The Company defines development projects as new communities that are being constructed, or are newly constructed and are in a phase of lease-up and have not yet reached stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2023, the Company's development pipeline was comprised of one unconsolidated joint venture project under development aggregating 264 apartment homes and various predevelopment projects, with total incurred costs of $114.0 million. The estimated remaining project costs are approximately $12.0 million, of which $6.5 million represents the Company's share of estimated remaining costs, for total estimated project costs of $126.0 million. The Company defines predevelopment projects as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with an expected high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had various consolidated predevelopment projects. The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes. The following table sets forth information regarding the Company s development pipeline ($ in millions): As of 12/31/2023 Essex Estimated Incurred Estimated Development Pipeline Location Ownership% Apartment Homes Project Cost (1) Project Cost (1) Development Projects - Joint Venture LIVIA at Scripps Ranch (2) San Diego, CA 51% 264 $ 90 $ 102 Total Development Projects - Joint Venture 264 90 102 Predevelopment Projects - Consolidated Other Projects Various 100% 24 24 Total - Consolidated Predevelopment Projects 24 24 Grand Total - Development and Predevelopment Pipeline 264 $ 114 $ 126 (1) Includes costs related to the entire project, including both the Company's and joint venture partners' costs. Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects. For predevelopment projects, only incurred costs are included in estimated costs. (2) Incurred project cost and estimated project cost are net of a projected value for low income housing tax credit proceeds and the value of the tax-exempt bond structure. Long Term Debt During 2023, the Company made regularly scheduled principal payments of $2.9 million to its secured mortgage notes payable at an average interest rate of 3.7%. In July 2023, the Company closed $298.0 million in 10-year secured loans priced at 5.08% fixed interest rates encumbering four properties located in Northern California. Bank Debt As of December 31, 2023, Moody s Investor Service and Standard and Poor's ("S P") credit agencies rated Essex Property Trust, Inc. and Essex Portfolio, L.P. Baa1/Stable and BBB+/Stable, respectively. At December 31, 2023, the Company had two unsecured lines of credit aggregating $1.24 billion. The Company's $1.2 billion credit facility had an interest rate of Adjusted Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("Adjusted SOFR") plus 0.75% which is based on a tiered rate structure tied to the Company's credit ratings, adjusted for the Company's sustainability metric grid, and a scheduled maturity date of January 2027 with two six-month extensions, exercisable at the Company's option. The Company's $35.0 million working capital unsecured line of credit had an interest rate of Adjusted SOFR plus 0.75%, which is based on a tiered rate structure tied to the Company's credit ratings, adjusted for the Company's sustainability metric grid, and a scheduled maturity date of July 2024. 4 Table of Contents Equity Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company did not issue any shares of common stock through its equity distribution agreement entered into in September 2021 (the "2021 ATM Program"). As of December 31, 2023, there were no outstanding forward sale agreements, and $900.0 million of shares remain available to be sold under the 2021 ATM Program. In September 2022, the Company's Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase plan to allow the Company to acquire shares of common stock up to an aggregate value of $500.0 million. The plan supersedes the Company's previous common stock repurchase plan announced in December 2015. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company repurchased and retired 437,026 shares of its common stock totaling $95.7 million, including commissions. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had $302.7 million of purchase authority remaining under its $500.0 million stock repurchase plan. Co-investments The Company has entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures or partnerships (including limited liability companies) through which it owns an indirect economic interest in less than 100% of the community or land or other investments owned directly by the joint venture or partnership. For each joint venture the Company holds a non-controlling interest in the venture and, in most cases, may earn customary management fees, development fees, asset property management fees, and a promote interest. The Company has also made, and may continue in the future to make, preferred equity investments in various multifamily development projects. The Company earns a preferred rate of return on these investments. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Company Overview and Values The Company is headquartered in San Mateo, CA, and has regional corporate offices in Woodland Hills, CA; Irvine, CA and Bellevue, WA. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had 1,750 employees, 99.8% of whom were full-time employees. A total of 1,321 employees worked on-site at our operating communities and 429 worked in our corporate offices. The Company's mission is to create quality communities in premier locations and it is critical to the Company's mission that it attracts, trains and retains a talented and diverse team by providing a better place to work and significant opportunities for professional growth. The Company's culture supports its mission and is guided by its core values: to act with integrity, to care about what matters, to do right with urgency, to lead at every level and to seek fairness. Workplace Diversity The Company believes it has one of the most diverse workforces among its peers in the real estate industry in part due to its robust and integrated diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy, which allows the Company to broaden its perspective and better serve both the communities it operates in and the associates it employs. The Company has a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DEI") Committee which directs the overarching goal setting, implementation, and follow-up for DEI initiatives and whose chairperson reports directly to the CEO on the Committee s activities. All Company associates are offered training aimed at preventing workplace harassment, including harassment based on age, gender or ethnicity, training covering the foundations of DEI and awareness of unconscious bias in the workplace, and all managers are required to complete anti-harassment training. The Company supports the employee-led affinity groups, including Women at Essex and the LGBTQ+ focused Rainbow Alliance, which foster a sense of community and inclusion for a diverse mix of associates at the Company through discussions and activities that are intended to engage, educate, enable, and empower the Company's employees. The DEI Committee s goals for 2023 included increasing the Company s training offerings, integrating DEI into talent recruitment processes, strengthening employee resource and affinity groups, making contributions to local DEI organizations, and improving recognition. The Company s notable diversity achievements for 2023 include the following data as of December 31, 2023: The Company s workforce self-identified as 71% ethnically or culturally diverse. 53% of the Company s managerial level employees, including 38% of its senior executives, self-identified as ethnically or culturally diverse. There were 216 women in positions of manager or higher, equating to 61% of managerial positions in the Company. 5 Table of Contents The Company s workforce self-identified as 42% female and 57% male (1% chose not to disclose their gender). 60% of the Company s corporate associates self-identified as female. The charts below detail the Company s diverse representation as of December 31, 2023: Total Workforce Executives Management Ethnicity 6 Table of Contents Gender Training and Development The Company values leadership at every level and enables the same by providing opportunities for all associates to develop personal and professional skills through programs that encourage associate retention and advancement. The Company currently offers training courses to its associates via Workday Learning, and its associates spent 22,373 hours learning in 2023. The Company also provides its associates with an annual $3,000 tuition reimbursement to further support outside professional growth opportunities. To identify, retain and reward top performers, the Company engages in meaningful internal succession planning and offers a tenure program, excellence awards, and a spot bonus recognition program to reward associates for good teamwork, good ideas, and good service. The Company encourages internal promotions and hiring for open positions, and the executive team actively mentors the Company s top talent to ensure strong leadership at the Company for the future. 37% of the Company s associates have approached or surpassed the Company s average tenure of 6.35 years, with 21% reaching beyond 10 years of service. In 2023, the Company promoted 13% of its employees to higher positions in the Company. Employee Health, Safety and Wellness Providing a safe working environment and promoting employee safety is imperative to the Company, and the Company continued to prioritize its associates health and safety throughout 2023. The Company has safety policies in place that align with its health and safety goals and seeks to proactively prevent workplace accidents and protect the health and safety of the Company's associates through training and analysis of incident reports. Additionally, the Company offers retirement support, associate discount programs, a mental health program, which includes counseling and coaching sessions for mental well-being support at no cost, and refresh days for our operations teams, and health benefit credits for participation in wellness programs. Compensation and Benefits The Company offers competitive compensation to secure and retain top talent. The Company engages in an annual compensation study to align compensation with market standards and to ensure the Company is appropriately compensating its top performers. Alongside competitive pay, the Company is committed to pay equity and parity, and conducts a pay equity analysis on an annual basis which includes the development and use of a robust, multiple regression analysis model to confirm the Company s continued achievement of gender pay parity. 7 Table of Contents The Company s total rewards program further reinforces its commitment to investing in the well-being of its associates while incentivizing its employees to promote fulfillment of the Company s mission. Beyond competitive compensation, the Company offers a suite of benefits, including health insurance, a retirement plan with a $6,000 annual matching potential benefit, life and disability coverage, supplemental paid parental leave, and the robust health and wellness support programs noted above. Additionally, the Company offers an associate housing discount. Community and Social Impact The Company believes volunteering can create positive change in the communities where our associates live and work and that the Company's commitment to giving back helps it attract and retain associates. The Company's Volunteer Program is aimed at supporting and encouraging eligible associates to become actively involved in their communities through the Company's support of charity initiatives and offering paid hours for volunteer time. Additionally, the Company s Essex Cares program provides direct aid to the Company s residents, associates, and local communities, including those who have experienced financial hardships. Employee Engagement In order to engage and promote communication with our associates and solicit meaningful feedback on our efforts to create a positive work environment, the Company issues engagement surveys to all associates to measure 10 key drivers of employee engagement including goal setting, organizational fit, DEI, well-being, freedom of opinion, meaningful work, management support and recognition, among others. Engagement surveys are split into three phases: new hire surveys, Company-wide bi-annual surveys, and exit surveys. 85% of Company employees participated in the surveys in 2023. The Company s overall engagement score on the surveys was 8.0 out of 10. Goal setting, meaningful work, management support, DEI, and social well-being were recognized as the top 5 areas of strength for the organization. INSURANCE The Company purchases general liability and property insurance coverage, including loss of rent, for each of its communities. The Company also purchases limited earthquake, terrorism, environmental and flood insurance. There are certain types of losses which may not be covered or could exceed coverage limits. The insurance programs are subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions in varying amounts. The Company utilizes a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC ("PWI"), to self-insure certain earthquake and property losses. As of December 31, 2023, PWI had cash and marketable securities of approximately $125.5 million, and is consolidated in the Company's financial statements. All of the Company's communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. The Company evaluates its financial loss exposure to seismic events by using actuarial loss models developed by the insurance industry and in most cases property vulnerability analysis based on structural evaluations by seismic consultants. The Company manages this exposure, where considered appropriate, desirable, and cost-effective, by upgrading properties to increase their resistance to forces caused by seismic events, by considering available funds and coverages provided by PWI and/or by purchasing seismic insurance. In most cases the Company also purchases limited earthquake insurance for certain properties owned by the Company's co-investments. In addition, the Company carries other types of insurance coverage related to a variety of risks and exposures. Based on market conditions, the Company may change or potentially eliminate insurance coverages, or increase levels of self-insurance. Further, the Company may incur losses, which could be material, due to uninsured risks, deductibles and self-insured retentions, and/or losses in excess of coverage limits. COMPETITION There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company s communities in attracting tenants. These include other apartment communities, condominiums and single-family homes. If the demand for the Company s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces competition from other REITs, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and/or develops. WORKING CAPITAL 8 Table of Contents The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2024. The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates, stock price, and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect the Company s plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS As a real estate owner and operator, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances and may be subject to liability and the costs of removal or remediation of certain potentially hazardous materials that may be present in our communities. See the discussion under the caption, "Risks Related to Real Estate Investments and Our Operations - The Company s portfolio may have environmental liabilities" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. OTHER MATTERS Certain Policies of the Company The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities underlying assets are real estate. The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, Northern California, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions. However, the geographical composition of the portfolio is evaluated periodically and may be modified by management. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS For purposes of this section, the term "stockholders" means the holders of shares of Essex Property Trust, Inc. s common stock. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to Essex Property Trust, Inc. s stockholders and Essex Portfolio, L.P. s unitholders. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our Company, our properties and our business. Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual operating results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Investments and Operations General real estate investment risks may adversely affect property income and values, and therefore our stock price may be adversely affected. If the communities and other real estate investments, including development and redevelopment properties, do not generate sufficient income to meet operating and financing expenses, cash flow and the ability to make distributions will be adversely affected. Income and growth from the communities may be further adversely affected by, among other things, the following factors, in addition to the other risk factors listed in this Item 1A: changes in the general or local economic climate that could affect demand for housing, including layoffs, due to an increase in the use of new technologies to replace workers, slowing job growth, and other events negatively impacting local employment rates, wages and the local economy; changes in demand for rental housing due to a variety of factors, including relocations of employees from local employers, increased worker locational flexibility and changing demographics, which could lead to a relative decrease in the renting population as the domestic population skews older due to the aging of baby boomers and older people may be more likely to purchase, rather than rent, homes, changes in supply and cost of housing; changes in economic conditions, such as high inflationary periods in which our operating and financing costs may increase at a rate greater than our ability to increase rents, or deflationary periods where rents may decline more quickly relative to operating and financing costs; and the appeal and desirability of our communities to tenants relative to other housing alternatives, including the size and amenity offerings, safety and location convenience, and our technology offerings. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents, and the Company may be unable to ren