Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 38 Item 6. [Reserved] 42 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks 55 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 56 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 56 Item 9B. Other Information 57 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 57 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11. Executive Compensation 58 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 58 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 58 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 59 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 59 Signatures S- 1 v Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are described in Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, "Forward-Looking Statements." Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in each forward-looking statement. Certain factors that might cause such a difference are discussed in this report, including in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial conditions. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Investments and Operations General real estate investment risks may adversely affect property income and values. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents, and the Company may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire. National and regional economic environments can negatively impact the Company s liquidity and operating results. Rent control, or other changes in applicable laws, or noncompliance with applicable laws, could adversely affect the Company's operations, property values or expose us to liability. The current COVID-19 pandemic, or the future outbreak of other highly infectious or contagious diseases could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisition of communities as well as development and redevelopment activities each involve various risks and may be delayed, not completed, and/or not achieve expected results. The geographic concentration of the Company s communities and fluctuations in local markets may adversely impact the Company s financial condition and operating results. The Company may experience various increased costs, including increased property taxes or costs associated with complying with legislation, to own and maintain its properties. Competition in the apartment community market and other housing alternatives may adversely affect operations and the rental demand for the Company s communities. Investments in mortgages, mezzanine loans, subordinated debt, other real estate, and other marketable securities could adversely affect the Company s cash flow from operations. The Company s ownership of co-investments could limit the Company s ability to control such communities and may restrict our ability to finance, sell or otherwise transfer our interests in these properties and expose us to loss of the properties if such agreements are breached by us or terminated. We may pursue acquisitions of other REITs and real estate companies, which may not yield anticipated results and could adversely affect our results of operations. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, the Company's ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions may be limited. The Company may not be able to lease its retail/commercial space consistent with its projections or at market rates. Climate change may adversely affect our business. Accidental death or severe injuries at our communities due to fires, floods, other natural disasters or hazards could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Adverse changes in laws may adversely affect the Company's liabilities and/or operating costs relating to its properties and its operations. Failure to succeed in new markets may limit the Company s growth. Our business and reputation depend on our ability to continue providing high quality housing and consistent operation of our communities, the failure of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or breach of the Company s privacy or information security systems, or those of our vendors or other third parties, could materially adversely affect the Company s business and financial condition. Reliance on third party software providers to host systems critical to our operations and to provide the Company with data. 1 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness and Financings Capital and credit market conditions may affect the Company s access to sources of capital and/or the cost of capital, which could negatively affect the Company s business, stock price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Debt financing has inherent risks. The indentures governing our notes and other financing arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. A downgrade in the Company's investment grade credit rating could materially and adversely affect its business and financial condition. The Company could be negatively impacted by the condition of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and by changes in government support for multifamily housing. Risks Related to Personnel The Company depends on its key personnel, whose continued service is not guaranteed. The Company s Chairman is involved in other real estate activities and investments, which may lead to conflicts of interest. The influence of executive officers, directors and significant stockholders may be detrimental to holders of common stock. Risks Related to Taxes and REIT Status Failure to generate sufficient revenue or other liquidity needs could limit cash flow available for distributions to Essex's stockholders or the Operating Partnership's unitholders. The Maryland Business Combination Act and the Company s governing documents may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for the Company's stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Loss of the Company's REIT status would have significant adverse consequences to the Company and the value of the Company's common stock. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in "prohibited transactions" may limit the Company s ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. Dividends payable by REITs may be taxed at higher rates than dividends of non-REIT corporations, which could reduce the net cash received by stockholders and may be detrimental to the Company s ability to raise additional funds through any future sale of its stock. 2 Table of Contents Item 1. Business OVERVIEW Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex"), a Maryland corporation, is an S P 500 company that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Essex owns all of its interest in its real estate and other investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership" or "EPLP"). Essex is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2021, had an approximately 96.6% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership. In this report, the terms the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., the Operating Partnership and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Essex and/or the Operating Partnership. Essex has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994. Essex completed its initial public offering on June 13, 1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company for financial reporting purposes. The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities, located along the West Coast of the United States. As of December 31, 2021, the Company owned or had ownership interests in 252 operating apartment communities, aggregating 61,911 apartment homes, excluding the Company's ownership in preferred equity co-investments, loan investments, three operating commercial buildings, and a development pipeline comprised of one consolidated project and one unconsolidated joint venture project aggregating 371 apartment homes (collectively, the "Portfolio"). The Company s website address is http://www.essex.com. The Company s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on the Company's website shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this report. BUSINESS STRATEGIES The following is a discussion of the Company s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management. Business Strategies Research Driven Approach to Investments The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge. The Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating markets and focusing on the following strategic criteria: Major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million; Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways; Rental demand enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and Housing demand based on job growth, proximity to jobs, high median incomes and the quality of life including related commuting factors. Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly. The Company seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions. Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields. Property Operations The Company manages its communities by focusing on activities that may generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation. The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below: 3 Table of Contents Property Management Oversee delivery and quality of the housing provided to our tenants and manage the properties financial performance. Capital Preservation The Company's asset management services are responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company s communities. Business Planning and Control Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with significant investment decisions. These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers, the operations leadership team, and senior management. Development and Redevelopment The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company s communities. CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Acquisitions of Real Estate Interests Acquisitions are an important component of the Company s business plan. The tables below summarize acquisition activity for the year ended December 31, 2021 ($ in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company purchased or increased its interests in six communities consisting of 1,033 apartment homes and two commercial properties for approximately $432.3 million. Property Name (1) Location Apartment Homes Essex Ownership Percentage Ownership Quarter in 2021 Purchase Price The Village at Toluca Lake (2) Burbank, CA 145 100 % EPLP Q2 $ 31.8 Martha Lake Apartments Lynwood, WA 155 50 % Wesco VI Q3 53.0 (3) Monterra in Mill Creek Mill Creek, WA 139 50 % Wesco VI Q4 55.0 (3) The Rexford Fremont, CA 203 50 % Wesco VI Q4 112.5 (3) Silver (4) San Jose, CA 268 58 % GR Block C Q4 132.4 (3) Canvas Seattle, WA 123 100 % EPLP Q4 47.6 Total 2021 1,033 $ 432.3 (1) In November 2021, the Company purchased a managing interest in a single asset entity owning a 179-unit apartment home community located in Vista, CA, for a contract price of $44.0 million, at the Company s pro rata share. (2) In June 2021, the Company purchased the joint venture partner's 50.0% membership interest in the BEX III, LLC co-investment that owned The Village at Toluca Lake based on a property valuation of $63.5 million. In conjunction with the acquisition, $29.5 million of mortgage debt that encumbered the property was paid off. (3) Represents the contact price for the entire property, not the Company s share. (4) In November 2021, the Company converted its existing $11.0 million preferred equity investment in Silver into a 58.0% equity ownership interest in the property. Based on a consolidation analysis, the Company accounts for this investment under the equity method investment. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company purchased two fully-leased commercial properties for approximately $86.0 million. Property Name Location Ownership Quarter in 2021 Purchase Price 7 South Linden South San Francisco, CA EPLP Q3 $ 33.5 Third Broad Seattle, WA EPLP Q3 52.5 Total 2021 $ 86.0 4 Table of Contents Dispositions of Real Estate As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all of its communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria. The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities, other real estate investments or to fund other commitments. The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations. In general, the Company seeks to offset the dilutive impact on long-term earnings and funds from operations from these dispositions through the positive impact of reinvestment of proceeds. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company sold four communities consisting of 912 apartment homes for approximately $330.0 million. Property Name Location Apartment Homes Ownership Quarter in 2021 Sales Price (in millions) Hidden Valley Simi Valley, CA 324 EPLP Q1 $ 105.0 (1) Park 20 San Mateo, CA 197 EPLP Q1 113.0 (2) Axis 2300 Irvine, CA 115 EPLP Q1 57.5 (3) Devonshire Apartments Hemet, CA 276 EPLP Q3 54.5 (4) Total 2021 912 $ 330.0 (1) The Company recognized a $69.2 million gain on sale. In conjunction with the sale, the Company repaid $29.7 million of mortgage debt that encumbered the property. (2) The Company recognized an immaterial gain on sale. (3) The Company recognized a $30.8 million gain on sale. (4) The Company recognized a $42.9 million gain on sale. Development Pipeline The Company defines development projects as new communities that are being constructed, or are newly constructed and are in a phase of lease-up and have not yet reached stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2021, the Company's development pipeline was comprised of one consolidated project under development and one unconsolidated joint venture project under development aggregating 371 apartment homes, with total incurred costs of $156.0 million, and estimated remaining project costs of approximately $61.0 million, $32.6 million of which represents the Company's share of estimated remaining costs, for total estimated project costs of $217.0 million. The Company defines predevelopment projects as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with an expected high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had various consolidated predevelopment projects. The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale. 5 Table of Contents The following table sets forth information regarding the Company s development pipeline ($ in millions): As of 12/31/2021 Essex Estimated Incurred Estimated Development Pipeline Location Ownership% Apartment Homes Project Cost (1) Project Cost (1) Development Projects - Consolidated Station Park Green - Phase IV San Mateo, CA 100% 107 $ 91 $ 94 Total Development Projects - Consolidated 107 91 94 Development Projects - Joint Venture Scripps Mesa Apartments (2) San Diego, CA 51% 264 44 102 Total Development Projects - Joint Venture 264 44 102 Predevelopment Projects - Consolidated Other Projects Various 100% 21 21 Total - Consolidated Predevelopment Projects 21 21 Grand Total - Development and Predevelopment Pipeline 371 $ 156 $ 217 (1) Includes costs related to the entire project, including both the Company's and joint venture partners' costs. Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects. For predevelopment projects, only incurred costs are included in estimated costs. (2) Incurred project cost and estimated project cost are net of a projected value for low income housing tax credit proceeds and the value of the tax-exempt bond structure. Long Term Debt During 2021, the Company made regularly scheduled principal payments and loan payoffs of $3.5 million to its secured mortgage notes payable at an average interest rate of 2.9%. In March 2021, the Operating Partnership issued $450.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on March 1, 2028 with a coupon rate of 1.700% per annum (the "2028 Notes"), which are payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on September 1, 2021. The 2028 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.423% of par value. The 2028 Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex. The Company used the net proceeds of this offering to repay upcoming debt maturities, including all or a portion of certain unsecured term loans, and for general corporate and working capital purposes. In June 2021, the Operating Partnership issued $300.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on June 15, 2031 with a coupon rate of 2.550% per annum (the "2031 Notes"), which are payable on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on December 15, 2021. The 2031 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.367% of par value. The 2031 Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex. The Company used the net proceeds of this offering to repay upcoming debt maturities, including to fund the redemption of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount (plus the make-whole amount and accrued and unpaid interest) of its outstanding 3.375% senior unsecured notes due January 2023, and for other general corporate and working capital purposes. Bank Debt As of December 31, 2021, Moody s Investor Service and Standard and Poor's ("S P") credit agencies rated Essex Property Trust, Inc. and Essex Portfolio, L.P. Baa1/Stable and BBB+/Stable, respectively. At December 31, 2021, the Company had two unsecured lines of credit aggregating $1.24 billion. The Company's $1.2 billion credit facility had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.775%, with a scheduled maturity date in September 2025 with three 6-month extensions, exercisable at the Company's option. The Company's $35.0 million working capital unsecured line of credit had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.775%, with a scheduled maturity date in February 2023. 6 Table of Contents Equity Transactions In September 2021, the Company entered into a new equity distribution agreement pursuant to which the Company may offer and sell shares of its common stock having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $900.0 million (the 2021 ATM Program ). In connection with the 2021 ATM Program, the Company may also enter into related forward sale agreements, and may sell shares of its common stock pursuant to these agreements. The use of a forward sale agreement would allow the Company to lock in a share price on the sale of shares of its common stock at the time the agreement is executed, but defer receipt of the proceeds from the sale of shares until a later date should the Company elect to settle such forward sale agreement, in whole or in part, in shares of its common stock. The 2021 ATM Program replaces the Company s prior equity distribution agreement entered into in September 2018 (the 2018 ATM Program ), which was terminated upon the establishment of the 2021 ATM Program. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company did not issue any shares of common stock through the 2021 ATM Program or through the 2018 ATM Program. As of December 31, 2021, there were no outstanding forward sale agreements, and $900.0 million of shares remain available to be sold under the 2021 ATM Program. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company repurchased and retired 40,000 shares totaling $9.2 million, including commissions. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $214.5 million of purchase authority remaining under its $250.0 million stock repurchase plan. Co-investments The Company has entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures or partnerships (including limited liability companies) through which we own an indirect economic interest in less than 100% of the community or land or other investments owned directly by the joint venture or partnership. For each joint venture the Company holds a non-controlling interest in the venture and earns customary management fees and may earn development fees, asset property management fees, and a promote interest. The Company has also made, and may continue in the future to make, preferred equity investments in various multifamily development projects. The Company earns a preferred rate of return on these investments. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Company Overview and Values The Company is headquartered in San Mateo, CA, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, CA; Irvine, CA and Bellevue, WA. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had 1,757 employees, ninety-nine percent (99%) of which were full-time employees, and of which 1,382 employees worked in operations and 375 were employed in the corporate offices. The Company's mission is to create quality communities in premier locations and it is critical to the Company's mission that it attracts, trains and retains a talented and diverse team by providing a better place to work and significant opportunities for professional growth. The Company's culture supports its mission and is guided by its core values: to act with integrity, to care about what matters, to do right with urgency, to lead at every level and to seek fairness. The Company seeks to reinforce those values within its workforce. Workplace Diversity The Company believes it has one of the most diverse workforces among its peers in the real estate industry. The Company believes that its robust and integrated diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy, which utilizes training programs, employee committees, and executive sponsorships to strengthen and promote diversity, equal opportunity, and fair treatment for all Company associates. As of December 31, 2021, the Company's workforce was approximately 43% Hispanic or Latino, 29% White, 12% Asian, 8% Black or African American, 1% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, 1% American Indian or Alaska Native, and 5% two or more races. 1% of employees chose to not disclose their race. As of December 31, 2021, the Company's workforce was 42% female and 58% male, of which corporate associates were 56% female and on-site operational associates were 38% female. The Company had 308 females in positions of manager or higher, representing 65% of managerial positions. Additionally, 50% of the Company s executive officers are female and 56% of the Company s senior executives are female. The tables below detail the Company's gender representation by position and the age diversity of its workforce. The Company has a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DEI") Committee which directs the overarching goal setting, implementation, and follow-up for DEI initiatives and whose chairperson reports directly to the CEO on the Committee s 7 Table of Contents activities. The Company supports the employee-led affinity groups, Women at Essex and the LGBTQ+ focused Rainbow Alliance, which foster a sense of community and inclusion for a diverse mix of associates at the Company through discussions and activities that are intended to engage, educate, enable, and empower the Company's employees. All associates are offered training aimed at preventing workplace harassment, including harassment based on age, gender or ethnicity, and all managers are required to complete harassment training. In 2021, the Company provided 2,878 hours of training for all its employees covering the foundations of DEI and awareness of unconscious bias in the workplace. The Company is committed to pay equity and conducts a pay equity analysis on an annual basis. The Company's pay equity analysis for 2021 indicated a zero percent (0%) pay gap between men and women. Gender Representation by Position (1) December 31, 2021 Male # (2) Female # (2) Male % Female % Corporate - Top Executives, VPs, Assistant VPs, Directors, Managers 70 (3) 66 (3) 51% 49% Corporate - Below manager position 94 145 39% 61% Field - Regional Directors/Managers, Community Managers and Assistant Managers 96 242 28% 72% Field - Leasing Specialists, Leasing Managers, Relationship Reps, Bookkeepers 119 194 38% 62% Field - Maintenance Supervisors and Techs 534 10 98% 2% Field - Porter, Landscaper, Painter, Security Guard, Amenities Attendant 103 82 56% 44% (1) Table excludes two employees that did not declare gender. (2) Gender is labeled as how respondents elected to be self-identified. (3) Includes one Field - VP Property Management position that oversees Operations. Total Workforce by Age Group December 31, 2021 # % = 25 172 10% 26-35 534 30% 36-45 417 24% 46-55 349 20% 56-65 248 14% 65 37 2% Training and Development The Company values leadership at every level and demonstrates such value with respect to its associates by providing opportunities for all associates to develop personal and professional skills and by offering programs to encourage employee retention and advancement. In 2021, over 36,000 hours of training and development programs were provided to associates, with our investment in training totaling almost $375,000. These programs include: leadership training, communication training, individual learning plans, Community Manager and Maintenance Manager training, and mentorship programs. Additionally, the Company provides its associates with outside educational benefits by offering an annual $3,000 tuition reimbursement to further support professional growth. To identify, retain and reward top performers, the Company offers a tenure program, which involves a cash gift for every five years of service, as well as excellence awards and a spot bonus recognition program to reward associates for good teamwork, good ideas and good service. The Company encourages internal promotions and hiring for open positions. In 2021, the Company promoted 16% of its employees to higher positions in the Company. Additionally, the Company engages in succession planning for its leadership and managerial positions and its executive team identifies and mentors the Company's top talent in order to ensure strong leadership at the Company for the future. Employee Well-Being The Company's compensation and benefits program and safety practices further reinforce its comm