Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 7 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 8 Item 2. Properties 8 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 8 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 8 Item 4A. Information about our Executive Officers 9 Part II 10 Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Ordinary Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 10 Item 6. [Reserved] 10 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 10 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 10 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 10 Item 9. Change in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 10 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 11 Item 9B. Other Information 11 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 11 Part III 12 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 12 Item 11. Executive Compensation 12 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 12 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 12 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 12 Part IV 13 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 13 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 17 SIGNATURES 18 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business. Eaton Corporation plc (Eaton or the Company) is an intelligent power management company dedicated to protecting the environment and improving the quality of life for people everywhere. We make products for the data center, utility, industrial, commercial, machine building, residential, aerospace and mobility markets. We are well positioned to capitalize on the megatrends of electrification, energy transition and digitalization. The reindustrialization of North America and Europe, growth in North American megaprojects, and increased global infrastructure spending focused on clean energy programs are expanding our end markets and positioning Eaton for growth for years to come. We are strengthening our participation across the entire electrical power value chain and benefiting from momentum in the data center and utility end markets as well as a growth cycle in the commercial aerospace and defense markets. We are guided by our commitment to operate sustainably and with the highest ethical standards. Our work is accelerating the planet s transition to renewable energy sources, helping to solve the world s most urgent power management challenges, and building a more sustainable society for people today and for future generations. Eaton was founded in 1911 and has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange for more than a century. We reported revenues of $23.2 billion in 2023 and serve customers in more than 160 countries. Eaton electronically files or furnishes reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy and information statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. As soon as reasonably practicable, these reports are available free of charge through the Company's website at www.eaton.com. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Acquisitions and Divestitures of Businesses Information regarding the Company's acquisitions and divestitures is presented in Note 2 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Business Segment Information Information by business segment regarding principal products, principal markets, methods of distribution and net sales is presented in Note 18 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Additional information regarding Eaton's segments and business is presented below. Electrical Americas and Electrical Global Principal methods of competition in these segments are performance of products and systems, technology, customer service and support, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in these segments and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In normal economic cycles, sales of these segments are historically lower in the first quarter and higher in the third and fourth quarters of a year. In 2023, 25% of these segments' sales were made to seven large customers of electrical products and electrical systems and services. Aerospace Principal methods of competition in this segment are total cost of ownership, product and system performance, quality, design engineering capabilities, and timely delivery. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products and platforms, is considered among the market leaders. In 2023, 21% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers of aircraft. Vehicle Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, technology, global service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In 2023, 33% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers of vehicles and related components. eMobility Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, technology, global service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment. In 2023, 14% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers of vehicles, construction equipment and related components. 2 Table of Contents Hydraulics On August 2, 2021, Eaton completed the sale of the Hydraulics business to Danfoss A/S, a Danish industrial company. Prior to the sale, the Hydraulics business was a reportable operating segment. Information Concerning Eaton's Business in General Raw Materials Eaton's major requirements for raw materials include iron, steel, copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, silver, gold, titanium, rubber, plastic, electronic components, chemicals, and fluids. Materials are purchased in various forms, such as coils, sheets, strips, ingots, bars, extrusions, castings, forgings, stampings, powder metal, plastic resins, and pellets. Raw materials, as well as parts and other components, are purchased from many suppliers. Under normal circumstances, the Company has no difficulty obtaining its raw materials. However, as global economies continued to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic and supply chains adjusted to the Russia Ukraine war, some of our businesses were impacted by inflation and supply chain constraints, including limited availability of select materials and delivery delays. During this time, we worked closely with our suppliers to manage and minimize the impact on our supply chain. Patents and Trademarks Eaton considers its intellectual property, including without limitation patents, trade names, domain names, trademarks, confidential information, and trade secrets to be of significant value to its business as a whole. The Company's products may be manufactured, marketed and sold using a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property, some of which expire in the future. Eaton develops and acquires new intellectual property on an ongoing basis and considers all of its intellectual property to be valuable. Based on the broad scope of the Company's product lines, management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on Eaton's consolidated financial statements or its business segments. The Company's policy is to file applications and obtain patents for the majority of its novel and innovative new products including product modifications and improvements. Environmental Contingencies Our comprehensive sustainability strategy is driven by our mission to improve the quality of life and the environment. We are committed to reducing our footprint, eliminating waste, and making the best use of natural resources. Operations of the Company involve the use and disposal of certain substances regulated under environmental protection laws. Eaton continues to modify processes on an ongoing, regular basis in order to reduce the impact on the environment, including the reduction or elimination of certain chemicals used in, and wastes generated from, operations. Compliance with laws that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, are not expected to have a material adverse effect upon capital expenditures, including expenditures for environmental control facilities, earnings or the competitive position of the Company. Compliance with future environmental protection laws may require an increase in capital expenditures. Information regarding the Company's liabilities related to environmental matters is presented in Note 11 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Human Capital Management Eaton has approximately 94,000 employees globally. The number of persons employed by our reportable segments and corporate at December 31, 2023 are as follows: (In thousands) 2023 Electrical Americas 32 Electrical Global 26 Aerospace 14 Vehicle 12 eMobility 2 Corporate 8 Total number of persons employed 94 3 Table of Contents Eaton uses and monitors a variety of metrics to ensure our objectives related to employee attraction, development, and retention are met. Most notably, Eaton tracks the following: Inclusion and Diversity Eaton is committed to having a workforce that is diverse and inclusive at all levels, reflecting the diversity of our customers and communities. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain the best employees without regard to race, color, social or economic status, religion, national origin, marital status, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any protected status. It is the policy of the Company to make all decisions regarding employment based on the principle of equal employment opportunity and without discrimination. At December 31, 2023, Eaton s distribution by gender, and United States distribution by minority status, is as follows: Total Global Number of women (Global) Percentage of women (Global) U.S. total Number of minorities (U.S. only) 1 Percentage of minorities (U.S. only) 1 Board of directors 10 3 30.0 % 8 4 50.0 % Global leadership team 25 4 16.0 % 23 11 47.8 % Executives 671 161 24.0 % 480 102 21.3 % Managers 8,754 2,192 25.0 % 4,568 984 21.5 % All other employees 84,331 29,794 35.3 % 23,668 8,658 36.6 % All employees 93,781 32,151 34.3 % 28,739 9,755 33.9 % 1 Excluding Puerto Rico At Eaton, one of our aspirational goals is to be a model of inclusion and diversity among our peers. Our plan to achieve this goal encompasses a number of actions, including an examination into our programs, practices, processes, and policies to look for opportunities to strengthen our support of underrepresented individuals, groups and businesses across our operations. Compensation A key component of Eaton s attraction and retention strategy is competitive compensation. Eaton regularly benchmarks its compensation practices with industry peers to maintain a top performing workforce. Eaton s 2023 total employee costs was $6.1 billion including salaries, wages, equity-based compensation, pension and other benefits. The total compensation of our median employee on October 1, 2022, as reported in our 2023 Proxy Statement filed on March 17, 2023, and as calculated in accordance with Item 402(u) of Regulation S-K, was $59,064. Safety Throughout our operations, our goal is to have no safety incidents and we continue to make progress towards that goal. Our 2022 Total Recordable Case Rate (TRCR) was 0.40 and our Days Away Case Rate (DACR) was 0.16. We have improved our TRCR 38% since 2018 and consider our 2030 target of 0.25 to be a world-leading safety rating. Our 2023 TRCR will be provided in our annual Sustainability Report to be issued in 2024. Achieving work-life balance Achieving work-life balance is a common concern of today's employees. Flexible work solutions and inclusive programs will help us remain competitive in attracting and retaining the best talent and make it possible for employees in varied situations to be able to remain at Eaton. Flexible solutions include compressed work weeks, remote working, job sharing, part-time work, flextime, and telework. Engagement Fully engaged employees are more productive, innovative, and satisfied in their work. Examples of how we engage our employees include enterprise-wide town halls, hosting informal listening meetings and surveying groups of employees on specific subjects. In addition, we have programs focused on career development of employees at all levels and we are committed to a wide range of strategies designed to improve and sustain employee engagement over the long-term. Our most recent engagement survey of all employees was completed in 2023. Of those who responded to the survey, 84% had favorable engagement indicating they were proud to work at Eaton, felt personal accomplishment from their work, and would recommend Eaton as a place to work. We plan to perform another survey of all employees in 2025. 4 Table of Contents