Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 3 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 5 Item 2. Properties 5 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 5 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 5 Item 4A. Information about our Executive Officers 6 Part II 7 Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Ordinary Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 7 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 8 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 8 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 8 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 8 Item 9. Change in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 8 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 8 Item 9B. Other Information 9 Part III 9 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 9 Item 11. Executive Compensation 9 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 9 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 9 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 10 Part IV 10 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 10 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 14 SIGNATURES 15 Table of Contents Part I Item 1. Business. Eaton Corporation plc (Eaton or the Company) is a power management company with 2019 net sales of $21.4 billion . Eaton s mission is to improve the quality of life and the environment through the use of power management technologies and services. We provide sustainable solutions that help our customers effectively manage electrical, hydraulic and mechanical power more safely, more efficiently and more reliably. Eaton has approximately 101,000 employees in 60 countries and sells products to customers in more than 175 countries. Eaton electronically files or furnishes reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy and information statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. As soon as reasonably practicable, these reports are available free of charge through the Company's website at www.eaton.com. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Acquisitions and Divestitures of Businesses Information regarding the Company's acquisitions and divestitures is presented in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Segment Information Information by business segment regarding principal products, principal markets, methods of distribution and net sales is presented in Note 15 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information regarding Eaton's segments and business is presented below. Electrical Products and Electrical Systems and Services Principal methods of competition in these segments are performance of products and systems, technology, customer service and support, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in these segments and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In normal economic cycles, sales of these segments are historically lower in the first quarter and higher in the third and fourth quarters of a year. In 2019 , 24% of these segments' sales were made to seven large distributors of electrical products and electrical systems and services. Hydraulics Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, geographic coverage, service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. Sales of this segment are historically higher in the first and second quarters and lower in the third and fourth quarters of the year. In 2019 , 13% of this segment's sales were made to five large original equipment manufacturers or distributors of agricultural, construction, and industrial equipment and parts. Aerospace Principal methods of competition in this segment are total cost of ownership, product and system performance, quality, design engineering capabilities, and timely delivery. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products and platforms, is considered among the market leaders. In 2019 , 26% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers of aircraft. Vehicle Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, technology, global service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In 2019 , 61% of this segment's sales were made to ten large original equipment manufacturers of vehicles and related components. eMobility Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, technology, global service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment. In 2019 , 23% of this segment's sales were made to five large original equipment manufacturers of vehicles, construction equipment and related components. 2 Table of Contents Information Concerning Eaton's Business in General Raw Materials Eaton's major requirements for raw materials include iron, steel, copper, nickel, aluminum, brass, tin, silver, lead, titanium, rubber, plastic, electronic components, chemicals and fluids. Materials are purchased in various forms, such as extrusions, castings, powder metal, metal sheets and strips, forging billets, bar stock, and plastic pellets. Raw materials, as well as parts and other components, are purchased from many suppliers. Under normal circumstances, the Company has no difficulty obtaining its raw materials. In 2019 , Eaton maintained appropriate levels of inventory to prevent shortages and did not experience any availability constraints. Patents and Trademarks Eaton considers its intellectual property, including without limitation patents, trade names, domain names, trademarks, confidential information, and trade secrets to be of significant value to its business as a whole. The Company's products are manufactured, marketed and sold under a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property, some of which expire in the future. Eaton develops and acquires new intellectual property on an ongoing basis and considers all of its intellectual property to be valuable. Based on the broad scope of the Company's product lines, management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on Eaton's consolidated financial statements or its business segments. The Company's policy is to file applications and obtain patents for the majority of its novel and innovative new products including product modifications and improvements. Order Backlog A significant portion of open orders placed with Eaton are by original equipment manufacturers or distributors. These open orders are not considered firm as they have been historically subject to releases by customers. In measuring backlog orders, only the amount of orders to which customers are firmly committed are included. Using this criterion, total backlog at December 31, 2019 and 2018 was approximately $5.4 billion and $5.3 billion , respectively. Backlog should not be relied upon as being indicative of results of operations for future periods. Environmental Contingencies Operations of the Company involve the use and disposal of certain substances regulated under environmental protection laws. Eaton continues to modify processes on an ongoing, regular basis in order to reduce the impact on the environment, including the reduction or elimination of certain chemicals used in, and wastes generated from, operations. Compliance with laws that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, are not expected to have a material adverse effect upon earnings or the competitive position of the Company. Eaton's estimated capital expenditures for environmental control facilities are not expected to be material for 2020 and 2021 . Information regarding the Company's liabilities related to environmental matters is presented in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.