Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 5 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 8 Item 2. Properties 8 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 8 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 8 Item 4A. Information about our Executive Officers 9 Part II 10 Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Ordinary Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 10 Item 6. [Reserved] 10 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 10 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 10 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 11 Item 9. Change in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 11 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 11 Item 9B. Other Information 11 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 11 Part III 11 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 11 Item 11. Executive Compensation 12 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 12 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 12 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 12 Part IV 12 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 12 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 16 SIGNATURES 17 Table of contents Part I Item 1. Business. Eaton Corporation plc (Eaton or the Company) is an intelligent power management company dedicated to improving the quality of life and protecting the environment for people everywhere. We are guided by our commitment to do business right, to operate sustainably and to help our customers manage power today and well into the future. By capitalizing on the global growth trends of electrification and digitalization, we're accelerating the planet's transition to renewable energy, helping to solve the world's most urgent power management challenges, and doing what's best for our stakeholders and all of society. Founded in 1911, Eaton has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange for nearly a century. We reported revenues of $19.6 billion in 2021 and serve customers in more than 170 countries. Eaton electronically files or furnishes reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy and information statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. As soon as reasonably practicable, these reports are available free of charge through the Company's website at www.eaton.com. These filings are also accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. COVID-19 Information related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company is presented in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K. Acquisitions and Divestitures of Businesses Information regarding the Company's acquisitions and divestitures is presented in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Segment Information Information by business segment regarding principal products, principal markets, methods of distribution and net sales is presented in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information regarding Eaton's segments and business is presented below. Electrical Americas and Electrical Global Principal methods of competition in these segments are performance of products and systems, technology, customer service and support, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in these segments and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In normal economic cycles, sales of these segments are historically lower in the first quarter and higher in the third and fourth quarters of a year. In 2021, 22% of these segments' sales were made to seven large customers of electrical products and electrical systems and services. Hydraulics On August 2, 2021, Eaton completed the sale of the Hydraulics business to Danfoss A/S, a Danish industrial company. Prior to the sale, the Hydraulics business was a reportable operating segment. Aerospace Principal methods of competition in this segment are total cost of ownership, product and system performance, quality, design engineering capabilities, and timely delivery. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products and platforms, is considered among the market leaders. In 2021, 20% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers of aircraft. Vehicle Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, technology, global service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment and, with respect to many products, is considered among the market leaders. In 2021, 36% of this segment's sales were made to four large original equipment manufacturers of vehicles and related components. eMobility Principal methods of competition in this segment are product performance, technology, global service, and price. Eaton has a strong competitive position in this segment. In 2021, 18% of this segment's sales were made to three large original equipment manufacturers of vehicles, construction equipment and related components. 2 Table of contents Information Concerning Eaton's Business in General Raw Materials Eaton's major requirements for raw materials include iron, steel, copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, silver, gold, titanium, rubber, plastic, electronic components, chemicals, and fluids. Materials are purchased in various forms, such as bar stock, extrusions, castings, forgings, powder metal, coils, sheets, strips, stampings, plastic resins and pellets. Raw materials, as well as parts and other components, are purchased from many suppliers. Under normal circumstances, the Company has no difficulty obtaining its raw materials. However, as global economies recovered from the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021, some of our businesses were impacted by inflation and supply chain constraints, including limited availability of select materials and delivery delays. During this time, we worked closely with our suppliers to manage and minimize the impact on our supply chain. Additional information related to the impact of supply chain constraints and inflation is presented in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K. Patents and Trademarks Eaton considers its intellectual property, including without limitation patents, trade names, domain names, trademarks, confidential information, and trade secrets to be of significant value to its business as a whole. The Company's products are manufactured, marketed and sold using a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property, some of which expire in the future. Eaton develops and acquires new intellectual property on an ongoing basis and considers all of its intellectual property to be valuable. Based on the broad scope of the Company's product lines, management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on Eaton's consolidated financial statements or its business segments. The Company's policy is to file applications and obtain patents for the majority of its novel and innovative new products including product modifications and improvements. Environmental Contingencies Our comprehensive sustainability strategy is driven by our mission to improve the quality of life and the environment. We are committed to reducing our footprint, eliminating waste, and making the best use of natural resources. Operations of the Company involve the use and disposal of certain substances regulated under environmental protection laws. Eaton continues to modify processes on an ongoing, regular basis in order to reduce the impact on the environment, including the reduction or elimination of certain chemicals used in, and wastes generated from, operations. Compliance with laws that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, are not expected to have a material adverse effect upon capital expenditures, including expenditures for environmental control facilities, earnings or the competitive position of the Company. Compliance with future environmental protection laws may require an increase in capital expenditures. Information regarding the Company's liabilities related to environmental matters is presented in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Human Capital Management Eaton has approximately 86,000 employees globally. The number of persons employed by our reportable segments and corporate at December 31, 2021 are as follows: (In thousands) 2021 Electrical Americas 28 Electrical Global 26 Aerospace 12 Vehicle 11 eMobility 1 Corporate 8 Total number of persons employed 86 3 Table of contents Eaton uses and monitors a variety of metrics to ensure our objectives related to employee attraction, development, and retention are met. Most notably, Eaton tracks the following: Inclusion and Diversity Eaton is committed to having a workforce that is diverse and inclusive at all levels, reflecting the diversity of our customers and communities. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain the best employees without regard to race, color, social or economic status, religion, national origin, marital status, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any protected status. It is the policy of the Company to make all decisions regarding employment, including hiring, compensation, training, promotions, transfers, or lay-offs, based on the principle of equal employment opportunity and without discrimination. At December 31, 2021, Eaton s distribution by gender, and United States distribution by minority status, is as follows: Total Global Number of women (Global) Percentage of women (Global) U.S. total Number of minorities (U.S. only) 1 Percentage of minorities (U.S. only) 1 Board of directors 12 4 33.3 % 10 4 40.0 % Global leadership team 25 6 24.0 % 23 13 56.5 % Executives 587 137 23.3 % 413 70 16.9 % Managers 7,185 1,697 23.6 % 3,668 731 19.9 % All other employees 78,150 26,827 34.3 % 20,171 7,340 36.4 % All employees 85,947 28,667 33.4 % 24,275 8,154 33.6 % 1 Excluding Puerto Rico At Eaton, one of our aspirational goals is to be a model of inclusion and diversity among our peers. Our plan to achieve this goal encompasses a number of actions, including an examination into our programs, practices, processes, and policies to look for opportunities to strengthen our support of underrepresented individuals, groups and businesses across our operations. Compensation A key component of Eaton s attraction and retention strategy is competitive compensation. Eaton regularly benchmarks its compensation practices with industry peers to maintain a top performing workforce. Eaton s 2021 total employee costs was $5.5 billion including salaries, wages, equity-based compensation, pension and other benefits. The total compensation of our median employee on October 1, 2020, as reported in our 2021 Proxy Statement filed in March 2021, and as calculated in accordance with Item 402(u) of Regulation S-K, was $63,951. Safety Throughout our operations, our goal is to have no safety incidents and we continue to make progress towards that goal. For example, in 2020 we reduced our Total Recordable Case Rate (TRCR) by 26% (0.40) and our Days Away Case Rate (DACR) by 26% (0.17) compared to 2019. Our TRCR of 0.40 approaches our long-term goal of 0.25, which we believe is a world-class safety rate. Further, in 2021, the Company took a number of measures to continue to protect our workforce from the COVID-19 pandemic, including the following as appropriate: Training our employees at sites around the world in cleaning and disinfecting protocols Enacting social distancing procedures, staggered shifts, a rotating office work schedule, and modified workspace and meeting space layouts as appropriate Requiring employees to stay at home if they are feeling ill, and encouraging increased hand washing and hygiene practices across all sites Advising employees to take advantage of flexible work options Restricting visitors to all sites Encouraging vaccination for all employees and at select locations, arranging for vaccination clinics and transportation Consulting regularly with doctors and health care organizations Updating the Company's response plan as new information became available 4 Table of contents In the event an employee suspects they have been exposed to COVID-19, or testing confirms it, sites will implement a response plan that includes: Communication with all who may have been exposed Disinfecting work stations and common areas Shutting down the facility if warranted These actions are aligned with preventive health protocols of governmental authorities and health organizations including the Centers for Disease Control (U.S.) and the World Health Organization. Achieving work-life balance Achieving work-life balance is a common concern of today's employees. Flexible work solutions and inclusive programs will help us remain competitive in attracting and retaining the best talent and make it possible for employees in varied situations to be able to remain at Eaton. Flexible solutions include compressed work weeks, remote working, job sharing, part-time work, flextime, and telework. Engagement Fully engaged employees are more productive, innovative, and satisfied in their work. Examples of how we engage our employees include enterprise-wide town halls, hosting informal listening meetings and surveying groups of employees on specific subjects. In addition, we have programs focused on career development of employees at all levels. Our 2021 survey on employee engagement showed a favorable response from 83 percent of employees who completed it. This group reported that they were proud to work at Eaton, felt personal accomplishment from their work, and would recommend Eaton as a place to work. We are committed to a wide range of strategies designed to improve and sustain employee engagement over the long-term.