Item 1. Business RISK FACTORS SUMMARY Entergy s business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could affect its ability to successfully implement its business strategy and affect its financial results. Carefully consider all of the information in this report and, in particular, the following principal risks and all of the other specific factors described in Item 1A. of this report, Risk Factors, before deciding whether to invest in Entergy or the Registrant Subsidiaries. Utility Regulatory Risks The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and responsive measures taken are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. The terms and conditions of service, including electric and gas rates, of the Utility operating companies and System Energy are determined through regulatory approval proceedings that can be lengthy and subject to appeal, potentially resulting in lengthy litigation and uncertainty as to ultimate results. The Utility operating companies recover fuel, purchased power, and associated costs through rate mechanisms that are subject to risks of delay or disallowance in regulatory proceedings. Entergy s business could experience adverse effects related to changes to state or federal legislation or regulation. The Utility operating companies are subject to risks associated with participation in the MISO markets and the allocation of transmission upgrade costs. A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred as a result of severe weather (including from Hurricane Laura, Hurricane Delta, Hurricane Zeta, and Hurricane Ida) could have material effects on Entergy and those Utility operating companies affected by severe weather. Nuclear Operating, Shutdown, and Regulatory Risks The results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities could be materially affected by the following: failure to consistently operate their nuclear power plants at high capacity factors; refueling outages that last longer than anticipated or unplanned outages; risks related to the purchase of uranium fuel (and its conversion, enrichment, and fabrication); the risk that the NRC will change or modify its regulations, suspend or revoke their licenses, or increase oversight of their nuclear plants; risks and costs related to operating and maintaining their nuclear power plants; the costs associated with the storage of the spent nuclear fuel, as well as the costs of and their ability to fully decommission their nuclear power plants; the potential requirement to pay substantial retrospective premiums imposed under the Price-Anderson Act and/or from Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL) in the event of a nuclear incident, and losses not covered by insurance; the risk that the decommissioning trust fund assets for the nuclear power plants may not be adequate to meet decommissioning obligations if market performance and other changes decrease the value of assets in the decommissioning trusts; and new or existing safety concerns regarding operating nuclear power plants and nuclear fuel. The Entergy Wholesale Commodities business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory, or market design changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. 234 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy General Business Risks Entergy and the Utility operating companies depend on access to the capital markets and, at times, may face potential liquidity constraints, which could make it more difficult to handle future contingencies. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect Entergy s and its subsidiaries ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital and operate and grow their businesses, and the cost of capital. A downgrade in Entergy Corporation s or its subsidiaries credit ratings could, among other things, negatively affect Entergy Corporation s and its subsidiaries ability to access capital. Changes in tax legislation and taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact Entergy s, the Utility operating companies , and System Energy s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Entergy and its subsidiaries ability to successfully execute on their business strategies, including their ability to complete capital projects, other capital improvements, and strategic transactions is subject to significant risks, and, as a result, they may be unable to achieve some or all of the anticipated results of such strategies. Failure to attract, retain, and manage an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively affect Entergy or its subsidiaries results of operations. The Utility operating companies, System Energy, and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business may incur substantial costs (i) to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters or (ii) related to reliability standards. Weather, economic conditions, technological developments, and other factors may have a material impact on electricity and gas usage and otherwise materially affect the Utility operating companies results of operations. Entergy could be negatively affected by the effects of climate change, including transition and physical risks, and environmental and regulatory obligations intended to compel greenhouse gas emission reductions or increase clean or renewable energy requirements or to place a price on greenhouse gas emissions. Entergy is dependent on the continued and future availability and quality of water for cooling, process, and sanitary uses. Entergy and its subsidiaries may not be adequately hedged against changes in commodity prices. The Utility operating companies and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business are exposed to the risk that counterparties may not meet their obligations. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require additional funding and result in increased benefit plan costs. The litigation environment in the states in which certain Entergy subsidiaries operate poses a significant risk to those businesses. Terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, system failures, or data breaches of Entergy s and its subsidiaries or its suppliers technology systems may adversely affect Entergy s results of operations. Significant increases in commodity prices, other materials and supplies, and operation and maintenance expenses may adversely affect Entergy s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers taking gas service may adversely affect Entergy New Orleans s results of operations and liquidity. System Energy owns and, through an affiliate, operates a single nuclear generating facility, and it is dependent on sales to affiliated companies for all of its revenues. Certain contractual arrangements relating to System Energy, the affiliated companies, and these revenues are the subject of ongoing litigation and regulatory proceedings. As a holding company, Entergy Corporation depends on cash distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock. 235 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy ENTERGY S BUSINESS Entergy is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 26,000 MW of electric generating capacity, including approximately 6,000 MW of nuclear power. Entergy delivers electricity to 3 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy had annual revenues of $11.7 billion in 2021 and had more than 12,000 employees as of December 31, 2021. Entergy operates primarily through two business segments: Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities. The Utility business segment includes the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electric power in portions of Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas, and Louisiana, including the City of New Orleans; and operation of a small natural gas distribution business. The Entergy Wholesale Commodities business segment includes the ownership, operation, and decommissioning of nuclear power plants located in the northern United States and the sale of the electric power produced by its operating plants to wholesale customers. Entergy Wholesale Commodities also provides services to other nuclear power plant owners and owns interests in non-nuclear power plants that sell the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers. See MANAGEMENT S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - Entergy Wholesale Commodities Exit from the Merchant Power Business for discussion of the operation and planned shutdown and sale of each of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, including the planned shutdown of Palisades, the only remaining operating plant in Entergy Wholesale Commodities merchant nuclear fleet. See Note 13 to the financial statements for financial information regarding Entergy s business segments. Strategy Entergy s strategy is to operate and grow its utility business, creating sustainable value for its customers, employees, communities, and owners. Entergy s strategy to achieve its stakeholder objectives has a few key aspects. First, Entergy invests in the Utility for the benefit of its customers, which supports steady, predictable growth in earnings and dividends. Second, Entergy manages risks by ensuring its Utility investments are customer-centric, supported by progressive regulatory constructs, and executed with disciplined project management. Third, Entergy is committed to delivering sustainable outcomes for all of its stakeholders by focusing on continually improving key elements of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG), including reducing carbon emissions for Entergy and its customers. Entergy is also executing the wind down of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities merchant nuclear generation business, which is expected to be effectively complete by the end of 2022. Utility The Utility business segment includes five retail electric utility subsidiaries: Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas. These companies generate, transmit, distribute, and sell electric power to retail and wholesale customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans also provide natural gas utility services to customers in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and New Orleans, Louisiana, respectively. Also included in the Utility is System Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation that owns or leases 90 percent of Grand Gulf. System Energy sells its power and capacity from Grand Gulf at wholesale to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans. The five retail utility subsidiaries are each regulated by the FERC and by state utility commissions, or, in the case of Entergy New Orleans, the City Council. System Energy is regulated by the FERC because all of its transactions are at wholesale. The overall generation portfolio of the Utility, which relies heavily on natural gas and nuclear generation, is consistent with Entergy s strong support for the environment. 236 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Customers As of December 31, 2021, the Utility operating companies provided retail electric and gas service to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas, as follows: Electric Customers Gas Customers Area Served (In Thousands) (%) (In Thousands) (%) Entergy Arkansas Portions of Arkansas 728 24 % Entergy Louisiana Portions of Louisiana 1,100 37 % 96 47 % Entergy Mississippi Portions of Mississippi 461 16 % Entergy New Orleans City of New Orleans 209 7 % 110 53 % Entergy Texas Portions of Texas 486 16 % Total customers 2,984 100 % 206 100 % Electric Energy Sales The electric energy sales of the Utility operating companies are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with the peak sales period normally occurring during the third quarter of each year. On August 23, 2021, Entergy reached a 2021 peak demand of 22,051 MWh, compared to the 2020 peak of 21,340 MWh recorded on August 10, 2020. Selected electric energy sales data is shown in the table below: Selected 2021 Electric Energy Sales Data Entergy Arkansas Entergy Louisiana Entergy Mississippi Entergy New Orleans Entergy Texas System Energy Entergy (a) (In GWh) Sales to retail customers 22,280 54,634 12,745 5,406 19,679 114,744 Sales for resale: Affiliates 2,254 4,950 1,364 10,593 Others 6,151 2,764 4,364 2,369 1,008 16,656 Total 30,685 62,348 17,109 7,775 22,051 10,593 131,400 Average use per residential customer (kWh) 13,390 14,139 14,555 12,032 14,601 13,947 (a) Includes the effect of intercompany eliminations. The following table illustrates the Utility operating companies 2021 combined electric sales volume as a percentage of total electric sales volume, and 2021 combined electric revenues as a percentage of total 2021 electric revenue, each by customer class. Customer Class % of Sales Volume % of Revenue Residential 27.1 36.6 Commercial 20.4 24.0 Industrial (a) 37.9 27.0 Governmental 1.9 2.3 Wholesale/Other 12.7 10.1 (a) Major industrial customers are primarily in the petroleum refining and chemical industries. 237 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Selected 2021 Natural Gas Sales Data Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana provide both electric power and natural gas to retail customers. Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana sold 10,686,659 and 7,409,278 Mcf, respectively, of natural gas to retail customers in 2021. In 2021, 99% of Entergy Louisiana s operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business, and only 1% from the natural gas distribution business. For Entergy New Orleans, 87% of operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business and 13% from the natural gas distribution business in 2021. Following is data concerning Entergy New Orleans s 2021 retail operating revenue sources. Customer Class Electric Operating Revenue Natural Gas Operating Revenue Residential 47% 50% Commercial 36% 24% Industrial 5% 19% Governmental/Municipal 12% 7% Retail Rate Regulation General (Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, System Energy) Each Utility operating company regularly participates in retail rate proceedings. The status of material retail rate proceedings is described in Note 2 to the financial statements. Certain aspects of the Utility operating companies retail rate mechanisms are discussed below. Rate base (in billions) Current authorized return on common equity Weighted average cost of capital (after-tax) Equity ratio Regulatory construct Entergy Arkansas $8.7 (a) 9.15% - 10.15% 5.17% 37.6% - forward test year formula rate plan - riders: MISO, capacity, Grand Gulf, tax adjustment, energy efficiency, fuel and purchased power Entergy Louisiana (electric) $13.6 (b) 9.0% - 10.0% 6.74% 49.98% - formula rate plan through 2022 test year - riders/specific recovery: MISO, capacity, transmission, fuel, distribution Entergy Louisiana (gas) $0.09 (c) 9.3% - 10.3% 6.97% 49.31% - gas rate stabilization plan - rider: gas infrastructure 238 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Entergy Mississippi $3.6 (d) 9.03% - 11.08% 6.85% 48.63% - formula rate plan with forward-looking features - riders: power management, Grand Gulf, fuel, MISO, unit power cost, storm damage, ad valorem tax adjustment, vegetation, grid modernization, restructuring credit Entergy New Orleans (electric) $1.1 (e) 9.35% 6.89% 51% - formula rate plan with forward-looking features - riders/specific recovery: fuel and purchased power, MISO, energy efficiency, environmental Entergy New Orleans (gas) $0.2 (e) 9.35% 6.89% 51% - formula rate plan with forward-looking features - rider: purchased gas Entergy Texas $2.4 (f) 9.65% 7.73% 50.90% - rate case - riders: fuel, capacity, cost recovery (distribution, transmission, and generation), rate case expenses, AMI surcharge, tax reform, among others System Energy $1.55 (g) 10.94% (h) 8.26 % 65% (h) - monthly cost of service (a) Based on 2022 test year. (b) Based on December 31, 2020 test year and excludes approximately $800 million for the Lake Charles Power Station and $300 million for the Washington Parish Energy Center, each included in the capacity rider, and $400 million of transmission plant, included in the transmission rider. (c) Based on September 30, 2020 test year. (d) Based on 2021 forward test year. (e) Based on December 31, 2020 test year and known and measurables through December 31, 2021. (f) Based on December 31, 2017 test year and excludes $1.4 billion in cost recovery riders. (g) Based on calculation as of December 31, 2021. (h) See Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of ongoing proceedings at the FERC challenging System Energy s authorized return on common equity and capital structure. 239 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Entergy Arkansas Formula Rate Plan Between base rate cases, Entergy Arkansas is able to adjust base rates annually, subject to certain caps, through formula rate plans that utilize a forward test year. Entergy Arkansas is subject to a maximum rate change of 4% of the filing year total retail revenue. In addition, Entergy Arkansas is subject to a true-up of projection to actuals netted with future projection. In response to Entergy Arkansas s application for a general change in rates in 2015, the APSC approved the formula rate plan tariff proposed by Entergy Arkansas including its use of a projected year test period and an initial five-year term. The initial five-year term expired in 2021. Entergy Arkansas obtained APSC approval of the extension of the formula rate plan tariff for an additional five-year term, through 2026. If Entergy Arkansas s formula rate plan were terminated, Entergy Arkansas could file an application for a general change in rates that may include a request for continued regulation under a formula rate review mechanism. Fuel and Purchased Power Cost Recovery Entergy Arkansas s rate schedules include an energy cost recovery rider to recover fuel and purchased power costs in monthly bills. The rider utilizes prior calendar year energy costs and projected energy sales for the twelve-month period commencing on April 1 of each year to develop an energy cost rate, which is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery, including carrying charges, of the energy cost for the prior calendar year. The energy cost recovery rider tariff also allows an interim rate request depending upon the level of over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy costs. In December 2007 the APSC issued an order stating that Entergy Arkansas s energy cost recovery rider will remain in effect, and any future termination of the rider would be subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which would occur following notice and hearing. Production Cost Allocation Rider Entergy Arkansas has in place an APSC-approved production cost allocation rider for recovery from customers of the retail portion of the costs allocated to Entergy Arkansas as a result of System Agreement proceedings. Entergy Louisiana Formula Rate Plan Entergy Louisiana historically sets electric base rates annually through a formula rate plan using a historic test year. The form of the formula rate plan, on a combined basis, was approved in connection with the business combination of Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and largely followed the formula rate plans that were approved by the LPSC in connection with the full electric base rate cases filed by those companies in February 2013. The formula rate plan was most recently extended through the test year 2022; certain modifications were made in that extension, including a decrease to the allowed return on equity, narrowing of the earnings dead band around the mid-point allowed return on equity, elimination of sharing above and below the earnings dead band, and the addition of a distribution cost recovery mechanism. The formula rate plan continues to include exceptions from the rate cap and sharing requirements for certain large capital investment projects, including acquisition or construction of generating facilities and purchase power agreements approved by the LPSC, certain transmission investment, and most recently, certain distribution investments, among other items. In the event that the electric formula rate plan is not renewed or extended or otherwise replaced, Entergy Louisiana would revert to the more traditional rate case environment. 240 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Fuel Recovery Entergy Louisiana s rate schedules include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs. The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges. See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings related to audits of Entergy Louisiana s fuel adjustment clause filings. To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments. Entergy Louisiana historically hedged approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year. The hedge quantity was reviewed on an annual basis. In January 2018, Entergy Louisiana filed an application with the LPSC to suspend these seasonal hedging programs and implement financial hedges with terms up to five years for a portion of its natural gas exposure, which was approved in November 2018. Entergy Louisiana s gas rates include a purchased gas adjustment clause based on estimated gas costs for the billing month adjusted by a surcharge or credit that arises from an annual reconciliation of fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges. Retail Rates - Gas In accordance with the settlement of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana s gas rate stabilization plan for the test year ended September 30, 2012, in August 2014, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana submitted for consideration a proposal for implementation of an infrastructure rider to recover expenditures associated with strategic plant investment and relocation projects mandated by local governments. After review by the LPSC staff and inclusion of certain customer safeguards required by the LPSC staff, in December 2014, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and the LPSC staff submitted a joint settlement for implementation of an accelerated gas pipe replacement program providing for the replacement of approximately 100 miles of pipe over the next ten years, as well as relocation of certain existing pipe resulting from local government-related infrastructure projects, and for a rider to recover the investment associated with these projects. The rider allows for recovery of approximately $65 million over ten years. The rider recovery will be adjusted on a quarterly basis to include actual investment incurred for the prior quarter and is subject to the following conditions, among others: a ten-year term; application of any earnings in excess of the upper end of the earnings band as an offset to the revenue requirement of the infrastructure rider; adherence to a specified spending plan, within plus or minus 20% annually; annual filings comparing actual versus planned rider spending with actual spending and explanation of variances exceeding 10%; and an annual true-up. The joint settlement was approved by the LPSC in January 2015. Implementation of the infrastructure rider commenced with bills rendered on and after the first billing cycle of April 2015. Storm Cost Recovery See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Louisiana s filings to recover storm-related costs. Other In March 2016 the LPSC opened two dockets to examine, on a generic basis, issues that it identified in connection with its review of Cleco Corporation s acquisition by third party investors. The first docket is captioned In re: Investigation of double leveraging issues for all LPSC-jurisdictional utilities, and the second is captioned In re: Investigation of tax structure issues for all LPSC-jurisdictional utilities. In April 2016 the LPSC clarified that the concerns giving rise to the two dockets arose as a result of its review of the structure of the Cleco-Macquarie transaction and that the specific intent of the directives is to seek more information regarding intra- 241 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy corporate debt financing of a utility s capital structure as well as the use of investment tax credits to mitigate the tax obligation at the parent level of a consolidated entity. No schedule has been set for either docket, and limited discovery has occurred. In December 2019 an LPSC commissioner issued an unopposed directive to staff to research customer-centered options for all customer classes, as well as other regulatory environments, and recommend a plan for how to ensure customers are the focus. There was no opposition to the directive from other commissioners but several remarked that the intent of the directive was not initiated to pursue retail open access. In furtherance of the directive, the LPSC issued a notice of the opening of a docket to conduct a rulemaking to research and evaluate customer-centered options for all electric customer classes as well as other regulatory environments in January 2020. Entergy Mississippi Formula Rate Plan Since the conclusion in 2015 of Entergy Mississippi s most recent base rate case, Entergy Mississippi has set electric base rates annually through a formula rate plan. Between base rate cases, Entergy Mississippi is able to adjust base rates annually, subject to certain caps, through formula rate plans that utilize forward-looking features. In addition, Entergy Mississippi is subject to an annual look-back evaluation. Entergy Mississippi is allowed a maximum rate increase of 4% of each test year s retail revenue. Any increase above 4% requires a base rate case. If Entergy Mississippi s formula rate plan were terminated without replacement, it would revert to the more traditional rate case environment or seek approval of a new formula rate plan. In August 2012 the MPSC opened inquiries to review whether the current formulaic methodology used to calculate the return on common equity in both Entergy Mississippi s formula rate plan and Mississippi Power Company s annual formula rate plan was still appropriate or could be improved to better serve the public interest. The intent of this inquiry and review was for informational purposes only; the evaluation of any recommendations for changes to the existing methodology would take place in a general rate case or in the existing formula rate plan proceeding. In March 2013 the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff filed its consultant s report which noted the return on common equity estimation methods used by Entergy Mississippi and Mississippi Power Company are commonly used throughout the electric utility industry. The report suggested ways in which the methods used by Entergy Mississippi and Mississippi Power Company might be improved, but did not recommend specific changes in the return on common equity formulas or calculations at that time. In June 2014 the MPSC expanded the scope of the August 2012 inquiry to study the merits of adopting a uniform formula rate plan that could be applied, where possible in whole or in part, to both Entergy Mississippi and Mississippi Power Company in order to achieve greater consistency in the plans. The MPSC directed the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff to investigate and review Entergy Mississippi s formula rate plan rider schedule and Mississippi Power Company s Performance Evaluation Plan by considering the merits and deficiencies and possibilities for improvement of each and then to propose a uniform formula rate plan that, where possible, could be applicable to both companies. No procedural schedule has been set. In October 2014 the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff conducted a public technical conference to discuss performance benchmarking and its potential application to the electric utilities formula rate plans. The docket remains open. Fuel Recovery Entergy Mississippi s rate schedules include energy cost recovery riders to recover fuel and purchased power costs. The energy cost rate for each calendar year is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery of the energy costs as of the 12-month period ended September 30. Entergy Mississippi s fuel cost recoveries are subject to annual audits conducted pursuant to the authority of the MPSC. The energy cost recovery riders allow interim rate adjustments depending on the level over