Item 1. Business RISK FACTORS SUMMARY Entergy s business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could affect its ability to successfully implement its business strategy and affect its financial results. Carefully consider all of the information in this report and, in particular, the following principal risks and all of the other specific factors described in Part I, Item 1A of this report, Risk Factors, before deciding whether to invest in Entergy or the Registrant Subsidiaries. Utility Regulatory Risks The terms and conditions of service, including electric and gas rates, of the Registrant Subsidiaries are determined through regulatory approval proceedings that can be lengthy and subject to appeal, potentially resulting in lengthy litigation, and uncertainty as to ultimate results. Entergy s business could experience adverse effects related to changes to state or federal legislation or regulation, or experience risks associated with participation in the MISO markets and allocation of transmission upgrade costs. The Utility operating companies recover fuel, purchased power, and associated costs through rate mechanisms that are subject to risks of delay or disallowance in regulatory proceedings. A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred as a result of severe weather could have material effects on Entergy and its Utility operating companies affected by severe weather. Weather, economic conditions, technological developments, and other factors may have a material impact on electricity and gas usage and otherwise materially affect the Utility operating companies results of operations. Nuclear Operating, Shutdown, and Regulatory Risks The results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy could be materially affected by the following: inability to consistently operate their nuclear power plants at high capacity factors; refueling outages that last materially longer than anticipated or unplanned outages; risks related to the purchase of uranium fuel (and its conversion, enrichment, and fabrication); the risk that the NRC will change or modify its regulations, suspend or revoke their licenses, or increase oversight of their nuclear plants; risks and costs related to operating and maintaining their nuclear power plants; the costs associated with the storage of the spent nuclear fuel, as well as the costs of and their ability to fully decommission their nuclear power plants; the potential requirement to pay substantial retrospective premiums and/or assessments imposed under the Price-Anderson Act and/or by Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL) in the event of a nuclear incident, and losses not covered by insurance; the risk that the decommissioning trust fund assets may not be adequate to meet decommissioning obligations if market performance and other changes decrease the value of assets in the decommissioning trusts; and new or existing safety concerns regarding operating nuclear power plants and nuclear fuel. Business Risks Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries depend on access to the capital markets and, at times, may face potential liquidity constraints. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets or a downgrade in Entergy s or its Registrant Subsidiaries credit ratings could, among other things, adversely affect their ability to meet liquidity needs, or to access capital to operate and grow their businesses, and the cost of capital. 239 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy The reputation of Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity or the inability to meet their stated goals or commitments, among other potential causes. Changes in tax legislation and taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact Entergy s and the Registrant Subsidiaries results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Entergy and its subsidiaries ability to successfully execute on their business strategies, including their ability to complete capital projects, other capital improvements, and strategic transactions, is subject to significant risks, and, as a result, they may be unable to achieve some or all of the anticipated results of such strategies. Failure to attract, retain, and manage an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively affect Entergy or its subsidiaries results of operations. Entergy and its subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy, may incur substantial costs (i) to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters or (ii) related to reliability standards. Entergy could be negatively affected by the effects of climate change, including physical risks, such as increased frequency and intensity of hurricanes, availability of water, droughts, and other severe weather and wildfires, and transition risks, such as environmental and regulatory obligations intended to combat the effects of climate change, including by compelling greenhouse gas emission reductions or reporting, or increasing clean or renewable energy requirements, or placing a price on greenhouse gas emissions. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require additional funding of such benefit plans and result in increased benefit plan costs. The litigation environment in the states in which the Registrant Subsidiaries operate poses a significant risk to those businesses. Terrorist attacks and sabotage, physical attacks, cyber attacks, system failures, data breaches or other disruptions of Entergy s and its subsidiaries or their suppliers physical infrastructure or technology systems may adversely affect Entergy s business and results of operations. Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. Significant increases in commodity prices, other materials and supplies, and operation and maintenance expenses may adversely affect Entergy s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers taking gas service may adversely affect Entergy New Orleans s results of operations and liquidity. System Energy owns and, through an affiliate, operates a single nuclear generating facility, and it is dependent on sales to affiliated companies for all of its revenues. Certain contractual arrangements relating to System Energy, the affiliated companies, and these revenues are the subject of ongoing litigation and regulatory proceedings. The aggregate amount of refunds claimed in these proceedings, after reduction for settlements reached with the MPSC and the APSC (subject in the latter case to approval by the FERC), exceeds the current net book value of System Energy. In the event of an adverse decision in one or more of these proceedings requiring the payment of substantial additional refunds, System Energy would be required to seek financing to pay such refunds, which financing may not be available on terms acceptable to System Energy when required. As a holding company, Entergy Corporation depends on cash distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock, and has provided, and may continue to provide, capital contributions or debt financing to its subsidiaries, which would reduce the funds available to meet its other financial obligations. The hazardous activities associated with power generation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 240 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy ENTERGY S BUSINESS Entergy is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 24,000 MW of electric generating capacity. Entergy delivers electricity to approximately 3 million Utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy had annual revenues of $12.1 billion in 2023 and had approximately 12,000 employees as of December 31, 2023. Entergy operates primarily through a single reportable segment, Utility. The Utility segment includes the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electric power in portions of Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas, and Louisiana, including the City of New Orleans; and operation of a small natural gas distribution business in portions of Louisiana. See MANAGEMENT S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - Planned Sale of Gas Distribution Businesses for discussion of the planned sale of the Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana gas distribution businesses. Entergy completed its multi-year strategy to exit the merchant nuclear power business in 2022 and upon completion of all transition activities, effective January 1, 2023, Entergy Wholesale Commodities is no longer a reportable segment. See Note 13 to the financial statements for discussion of and financial information regarding Entergy s business segments. Strategy Entergy s strategy is to operate and grow its utility business through a customer-centric approach designed to understand and meet customer needs, creating value for all of its key stakeholders, including customers, communities, employees, and owners. As part of its strategy, Entergy invests significant capital to support customer growth and its customers growing demands for greater reliability, resilience, and clean energy, while remaining focused on affordability. Entergy manages risks by ensuring its Utility investments are customer-driven, the result of robust analysis, supported by broad stakeholder outreach and progressive regulatory constructs, and executed with disciplined project management. Further, Entergy continues to integrate key sustainability elements, including social responsibility and good governance, into every decision it makes. Utility The Utility segment includes five retail electric utility subsidiaries: Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas. These companies generate, transmit, distribute, and sell electric power to retail and wholesale customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans also provide natural gas utility services to customers in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and New Orleans, Louisiana, respectively. See MANAGEMENT S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - Planned Sale of Gas Distribution Businesses for discussion of the planned sale of the Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana gas distribution businesses. Also included in the Utility is System Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation that owns or leases 90 percent of Grand Gulf. System Energy sells its power and capacity from Grand Gulf at wholesale to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans. The five retail utility subsidiaries are each regulated by the FERC and by state utility commissions, or, in the case of Entergy New Orleans, the City Council. System Energy is regulated by the FERC because all of its transactions are at wholesale. The Utility has a diverse power generation portfolio, including increasingly carbon-free energy sources, which is consistent with Entergy s strong support for the environment. 241 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Customers As of December 31, 2023, the Utility operating companies provided retail electric and gas service to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas, as follows: Electric Customers Gas Customers Area Served (In Thousands) (%) (In Thousands) (%) Entergy Arkansas Portions of Arkansas 730 24 Entergy Louisiana Portions of Louisiana 1,105 37 96 47 Entergy Mississippi Portions of Mississippi 459 15 Entergy New Orleans City of New Orleans 208 7 108 53 Entergy Texas Portions of Texas 512 17 Total 3,014 100 204 100 Electric and Natural Gas Energy Sales Electric Energy Sales The total electric energy sales of the Utility operating companies are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with the peak sales period normally occurring during the third quarter of each year. On August 23, 2023, Entergy reached a 2023 peak demand of 23,319 MWh, compared to the 2022 peak of 22,301 MWh recorded on June 24, 2022. Selected electric energy sales data for 2023 is shown in the table below: Entergy Arkansas Entergy Louisiana Entergy Mississippi Entergy New Orleans Entergy Texas System Energy Entergy (a) (GWh) Sales to retail customers 22,481 57,681 12,854 5,696 21,146 119,858 Sales for resale: Affiliates 2,218 4,406 10,574 Others 5,777 1,534 4,598 2,818 462 15,189 Total 30,476 63,621 17,452 8,514 21,608 10,574 135,047 Average use per residential customer (kWh) 12,561 14,893 14,226 12,610 14,941 14,089 (a) Includes the effect of intercompany eliminations. The following table illustrates the Utility operating companies 2023 combined electric sales volume as a percentage of total electric sales volume, and 2023 combined electric revenues as a percentage of total 2023 electric revenue, each by customer class. Customer Class % of Sales Volume % of Revenue Residential 26.9 38.4 Commercial 20.9 25.3 Industrial (a) 39.1 26.8 Governmental 1.8 2.3 Wholesale/Other 11.3 7.2 (a) Major industrial customers are primarily in the petroleum refining and chemical industries. 242 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Natural Gas Energy Sales Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana provide both electric power and natural gas to retail customers. Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana sold 8,917,149 and 6,130,048 Mcf, respectively, of natural gas to retail customers in 2023. In 2023, 99% of Entergy Louisiana s operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business and only 1% from the natural gas distribution business. For Entergy New Orleans, 87% of operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business and 13% from the natural gas distribution business in 2023. Following is data concerning Entergy New Orleans s 2023 retail operating revenue sources: Customer Class % of Electric Operating Revenue % of Natural Gas Operating Revenue Residential 48 51 Commercial 35 26 Industrial 5 17 Governmental/Municipal 12 6 Retail Rate Regulation General (Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, System Energy) Each Utility operating company regularly participates in retail rate proceedings. The status of material retail rate proceedings is described in Note 2 to the financial statements. Certain aspects of the Utility operating companies and System Energy s retail rate mechanisms are discussed below. Rate base (in billions) Current authorized return on common equity Weighted-average cost of capital (after-tax) Equity ratio Regulatory construct Entergy Arkansas $10.1 (a) 9.15% - 10.15% 5.62% 38.7% (b) - forward test year formula rate plan - riders: fuel and purchased power, MISO, capacity, Grand Gulf, energy efficiency Entergy Louisiana (electric) $15.7 (c) 9.0% - 10.0% 6.66% 49.51% - formula rate plan through 2022 test year - riders/specific recovery: MISO, capacity, transmission, fuel, distribution, tax reform Entergy Louisiana (gas) $0.15 (d) 9.3% - 10.3% 6.93% 51.83% - gas rate stabilization plan - rider: gas infrastructure Entergy Mississippi $4.2 (e) 9.74% - 11.88% 7.06% 46.76% - formula rate plan with forward-looking features - riders: fuel, Grand Gulf, MISO, unit power cost, storm damage, ad valorem tax adjustment, vegetation, grid modernization, restructuring credit, power management 243 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Rate base (in billions) Current authorized return on common equity Weighted-average cost of capital (after-tax) Equity ratio Regulatory construct Entergy New Orleans (electric) $1.2 (f) 8.85% - 9.85% 6.86% 51% (g) - formula rate plan with forward-looking features - riders/specific recovery: fuel and purchased power, MISO, energy efficiency, environmental, capacity costs Entergy New Orleans (gas) $0.2 (f) 8.85% - 9.85% 6.86% 51% (g) - formula rate plan with forward-looking features - rider: purchased gas Entergy Texas $4.4 (h) 9.57% 6.61% 51.2% - rate case and cost recovery riders - riders: fuel, capacity, cost recovery riders (distribution, transmission, and generation), rate case expenses, advanced metering infrastructure surcharge, and tax reform, among others System Energy $1.74 (i) 10.94% (j) 8.54% 59.5% (j) - monthly cost of service (a) Based on 2024 test year. (b) Based on $1.9 billion in accumulated deferred income taxes at a 0% cost rate included in the weighted-average cost of capital calculation. (c) Based on December 31, 2022 test year and excludes approximately $300 million of transmission plant investment included in the transmission recovery mechanism and approximately $200 million of distribution plant investment included in the distribution recovery mechanism, as well as approximately $400 million of net accumulated deferred tax liability items included in the tax reform adjustment mechanism. (d) Based on September 30, 2022 test year. (e) Based on 2023 forward test year. (f) Based on December 31, 2022 test year and known and measurables through December 31, 2023. (g) In October 2023 the City Council approved a three-year extension of Entergy New Orleans s formula rate plan, modified to reflect a 55% fixed capital structure for rate setting purposes. (h) Based on December 31, 2021 test year. (i) Based on calculation as of December 31, 2023. (j) Effective July 2022, Entergy Mississippi s bills from System Energy reflect an authorized return on equity of 9.65%, a capital structure not to exceed 52% equity, and a rate base reduction for the advance collection of sale-leaseback rental costs. See Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of ongoing proceedings at the FERC challenging System Energy s authorized return on common equity and capital structure. Entergy Arkansas Formula Rate Plan Between base rate cases, Entergy Arkansas is able to adjust base rates annually, subject to certain caps, through formula rate plans that utilize a forward test year. Entergy Arkansas is subject to a maximum rate change of 4% of the filing year total retail revenue. In addition, Entergy Arkansas is subject to a true-up of projection to actuals netted with future projection. In response to Entergy Arkansas s application for a general change in rates in 244 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy 2015, the APSC approved the formula rate plan tariff proposed by Entergy Arkansas including its use of a projected year test period and an initial five-year term. The initial five-year term expired in 2021. As granted by Arkansas law, Entergy Arkansas obtained APSC approval of the extension of the formula rate plan tariff for an additional five-year term, through 2026. As part of the settlement of the 2023 formula rate plan proceeding, Entergy Arkansas agreed to file its next base rate case no later than February 2026. If Entergy Arkansas s formula rate plan were terminated, Entergy Arkansas could file an application for a general change in rates that may include a request for continued regulation under a formula rate review mechanism. Fuel and Purchased Power Cost Recovery Entergy Arkansas s rate schedules include an energy cost recovery rider to recover fuel and purchased power costs in monthly bills. The rider utilizes prior calendar year energy costs and projected energy sales for the twelve-month period commencing on April 1 of each year to develop an energy cost rate, which is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery, including carrying charges, of the energy cost for the prior calendar year. The energy cost recovery rider tariff also allows an interim rate request depending upon the level of over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy costs. In December 2007 the APSC issued an order stating that Entergy Arkansas s energy cost recovery rider will remain in effect, and any future termination of the rider would be subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which would occur following notice and hearing. Production Cost Allocation Rider Entergy Arkansas has in place an APSC-approved production cost allocation rider for recovery from customers of the retail portion of the costs allocated to Entergy Arkansas as a result of System Agreement proceedings. Other In June 2022 the APSC approved Entergy Arkansas s compliance tariff filing for a proposed green tariff designed to help participating customers meet their renewable and sustainability goals and to enhance economic development efforts in Arkansas. The APSC approved an initial offering of 100 MW of solar capacity to be made available under this tariff. In June 2023 the APSC approved Entergy Arkansas s Go ZERO tariff, which provides participating industrial and commercial customers the opportunity to chose from a number of clean energy options to help them achieve their sustainability goals. Entergy Louisiana Formula Rate Plan Entergy Louisiana historically sets electric base rates annually through a formula rate plan using a historic test year. The form of the formula rate plan, on a combined basis, was approved in connection with the business combination of Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and largely followed the formula rate plans that were approved by the LPSC in connection with the full electric base rate cases filed by those companies in February 2013. In 2021 the LPSC approved a settlement extending the formula rate plan for test years 2020, 2021 and 2022; certain modifications were made in that extension, including a decrease to the allowed return on equity, narrowing of the earnings dead band around the mid-point allowed return on equity, elimination of sharing above and below the earnings dead band, and the addition of a distribution cost recovery mechanism. The formula rate plan continues to include exceptions from the rate cap and sharing requirements for certain large capital investment projects, including acquisition or construction of generating facilities and purchase power agreements approved by the LPSC, certain transmission investments, and certain distribution investments, among other items. In August 245 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy 2023, Entergy Louisiana filed an application for approval of a regulatory blueprint necessary for it to strengthen the electric grid for the State of Louisiana, which contains a dual-path request to update rates through either: (1) extension of Entergy Louisiana s current formula rate plan (with certain modifications) for three years, test years 2023-2025, which is Entergy Louisiana s recommended path; or (2) implementation of rates resulting from a cost-of-service study, with a 2024-2026 test year formula rate plan. The application complies with Entergy Louisiana s previous formula rate plan extension order requiring that for Entergy Louisiana to obtain another extension of its formula rate plan that included a rate reset, Entergy Louisiana would need to submit a full cost-of-service/rate case. See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Louisiana s application. Fuel and Purchased Power Cost Recovery Entergy Louisiana s rate schedules include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs. The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges. See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings related to audits of Entergy Louisiana s fuel adjustment clause filings. To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments. Entergy Louisiana historically hedged approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year. The hedge quantity was reviewed on an annual basis. In January 2018, Entergy Louisiana filed an application with the LPSC to suspend these seasonal hedging programs and implement financial hedges with terms up to five years for a portion of its natural gas exposure, which was approved in November 2018. Entergy Louisiana s gas rates include a purchased gas adjustment clause based on estimated gas costs for the billing month adjusted by a surcharge or credit that arises from an annual reconciliation of fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges. Retail Rates - Gas In accordance with the settlement of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana s gas rate stabilization plan for the test year ended September 30, 2012, in August 2014, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana submitted for consideration a proposal for implementation of an infrastructure rider to recover expenditures associated with strategic plant investment and relocation projects mandated by local governments. After review by the LPSC staff and inclusion of certain customer safeguards required by the LPSC staff, in December 2014, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and the LPSC staff submitted a joint settlement for implementation of an accelerated gas pipe replacement program providing for the replacement of approximately 100 miles of pipe over the next ten years, as well as relocation of certain existing pipe resulting from local government-related infrastructure projects, and for a rider to recover the investment associated with these projects. The rider allows for recovery of approximately $65 million over ten years. The rider recovery will be adjusted on a quarterly basis to include actual investment incurred for the prior quarter and is subject to the following conditions, among others: a ten-year term; application of any earnings in excess of the upper end of the earnings band as an offset to the revenue requirement of the infrastructure rider; adherence to a specified spending plan, within plus or minus 20% annually; annual filings comparing actual versus planned rider spending with actual spending and explanation of variances exceeding 10%; and an annual true-up. The joint settlement was approved by the LPSC in January 2015. Implementation of the infrastructure rider commenced with bills rendered on and after the first billing cycle of April 2015. In April 2022 Entergy Louisiana submitted for consideration a proposal to extend the infrastructure rider to address replacement of an additional 187 miles of pipe. In December 2022 Entergy Louisiana and the LPSC staff submitted an uncontested settlement that extends the rider for an additional ten years beginning after the end of the current term of the rider in 2025. The extension is subject to the same customer safeguards and conditions as the original term of the rider. The extension 246 Table of Contents Part I Item 1 Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy allows for recovery of approximately $95 million over ten years. In February 2023, the uncontested settlement was approved by the LPSC. Storm Cost Recovery See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Louisiana s filings to recover storm-related costs. Other In March 2016 the LPSC opened two dockets to examine, on a generic basis, issues that it identified in connection with its review of Cleco Corporation s acquisition by third party investors. The first docket is captioned In re: Investigation of double leveraging issues for all LPSC-jurisdictional utilities, and the second is captioned In re: Investigation of tax structure issues for all LPSC-jurisdictional utilities. In April 2016 the LPSC clarified that the concerns giving rise to the two dockets arose as a result of its review of the structure of the Cleco-Macquarie transaction and that the specific intent of the directives is to seek more information regarding intra-corporate debt financing of a utility s capital structure as well as the use of investment tax credits to mitigate the tax obligation at the parent level of a consolidated entity. No schedule has been set for either docket, and limited discovery has occurred. In December 2019 an LPSC commissioner issued an unopposed directive to staff to research customer-centered options for all customer classes, as well as other regulatory environments, and recommend a plan for how to ensure customers are the focus. There was no opposition to the directive from other commissioners but several remarked that the intent of the directive was not initiated to pursue retail open access. In furtherance of the directive, the LPSC issued a notice of the opening of a docket to conduct a rulemaking to research and evaluate customer-centered options for all electric customer classes as well as other regulatory environments in January 2020. To date, the LPSC staff has requested multiple rounds of comments from stakeholders and conducted one technical conference. Topics on which comments have been filed include full and limited retail access, demand response, sleeved power purchase agreements, and energy efficiency. Neither the LPSC or the LPSC staff