Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 56 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 147 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 147 Item 9B. Other Information 151 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 151 Item 11. Executive Compensation 152 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 152 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 153 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 153 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 154 Signatures 175 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Statements made in this report that are not based on historical facts are forward-looking, may involve risks and uncertainties, and are intended to be as of the date when made. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our strategic plan, including, without limitation, earnings per share and dividend growth targets, operating and maintenance expense savings goals and future capital allocation plans; the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings; and other matters relating to expected financial performance or affecting future operations. Forward-looking statements are often accompanied by forward-looking words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "forecasts," "should," "seeks," "intends," "proposed," "projects," "planned," "outlook," "remain confident," "goal," "will" or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Evergy Companies are providing a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: economic and weather conditions and any impact on sales, prices and costs; changes in business strategy or operations; the impact of federal, state and local political, legislative, judicial and regulatory actions or developments, including deregulation, re-regulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry; decisions of regulators regarding, among other things, customer rates and the prudency of operational decisions such as capital expenditures and asset retirements; changes in applicable laws, regulations, rules, principles or practices, or the interpretations thereof, governing tax, accounting and environmental matters, including air and water quality and waste management and disposal; the impact of climate change, including increased frequency and severity of significant weather events and reduced demand for coal-based energy; prices and availability of electricity in wholesale markets; market perception of the energy industry and the Evergy Companies; changes in the energy trading markets in which the Evergy Companies participate, including retroactive repricing of transactions by regional transmission organizations (RTO) and independent system operators; financial market conditions and performance, including changes in interest rates and credit spreads and in availability and cost of capital and the effects on derivatives and hedges, nuclear decommissioning trust and pension plan assets and costs; impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill; credit ratings; inflation rates; the transition to a replacement for the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) benchmark interest rate; effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures and the ability of counterparties to satisfy their contractual commitments; impact of terrorist acts, including cyber terrorism; ability to carry out marketing and sales plans; cost, availability, quality and timely provision of equipment, supplies, labor and fuel; ability to achieve generation goals and the occurrence and duration of planned and unplanned generation outages; delays and cost increases of generation, transmission, distribution or other projects; the Evergy Companies' ability to manage their transmission and distribution development plans and transmission joint ventures; the inherent risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear facility, including environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks; workforce risks, including those related to increased costs of, or changes in, retirement, health care and other benefits; disruption, costs and uncertainties caused by or related to the actions of individuals or entities, such as activist shareholders or special interest groups, that seek to influence our strategic plan, financial results or operations; the possibility that the expected value creation from the merger of Great Plains Energy Incorporated (Great Plains Energy) and Evergy Kansas Central that resulted in the creation of Evergy will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; difficulties related to the integration, including the diversion of management time; difficulties in maintaining relationships with customers, employees, regulators or suppliers; disruption related to the rebranding of the Evergy Companies, including the impact of the rebranding on receipt of customer payments; and other risks and uncertainties. This list of factors is not all-inclusive because it is not possible to predict all factors. Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors included in this report should be carefully read for further understanding of potential risks for the Evergy Companies. Other sections of this report and other periodic reports filed by the Evergy Companies with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) should also be read for more information regarding risk factors. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement. The Evergy Companies undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 3 Table of Contents Available Information The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Evergy Companies, including their combined annual reports on Form 10-K, combined quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with the SEC, is also available through the Evergy Companies' website, www.evergy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should note that the Evergy Companies announce material financial information in SEC filings, press releases and public conference calls. In accordance with SEC guidelines, the Evergy Companies also use the Investor Relations tab on their website, www.evergy.com, to communicate with investors. It is possible that the financial and other information posted there could be deemed to be material information. The information on Evergy's website is not part of this document. GLOSSARY OF TERMS The following is a glossary of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found throughout this report. Abbreviation or Acronym Definition ACE Affordable Clean Energy AEP American Electric Power Company, Inc. AFUDC Allowance for Funds Used During Construction Amended Merger Agreement Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 9, 2017, by and among Great Plains Energy, Evergy Kansas Central, Monarch Energy Holding, Inc. and King Energy, Inc. AMT Alternative Minimum Tax AROs Asset Retirement Obligations ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASR Accelerated share repurchase ASU Accounting Standards Update BSER Best system of emission reduction CAA Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 CCRs Coal combustion residuals CO 2 Carbon dioxide COLI Corporate-owned life insurance CPP Clean Power Plan CWA Clean Water Act D.C. Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit DOE Department of Energy EIRR Environmental Improvement Revenue Refunding ELG Effluent limitations guidelines EPA Environmental Protection Agency EPS Earnings per common share ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ERSP Earnings Review and Sharing Plan Evergy Evergy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries Evergy Board Evergy Board of Directors Evergy Companies Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central, and Evergy Metro, collectively, which are individual registrants within the Evergy consolidated group 4 Table of Contents Abbreviation or Acronym Definition Evergy Kansas Central Evergy Kansas Central, Inc., formerly known as Westar Energy, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy, and its consolidated subsidiaries Evergy Kansas South Evergy Kansas South, Inc., formerly known as Kansas Gas and Electric Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy Kansas Central Evergy Metro Evergy Metro, Inc., formerly known as Kansas City Power Light Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy, and its consolidated subsidiaries Evergy Metro Mortgage Indenture Evergy Metro General Mortgage Indenture and Deed of Trust dated as of December 1, 1986, as supplemented Evergy Missouri West Evergy Missouri West, Inc., formerly known as KCP L Greater Missouri Operations Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy Evergy Transmission Company Evergy Transmission Company, LLC, formerly known as GPE Transmission Holding Company, LLC Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FMB First Mortgage Bond GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GHG Greenhouse gas Great Plains Energy Great Plains Energy Incorporated JEC Jeffrey Energy Center KCC State Corporation Commission of the State of Kansas KDHE Kansas Department of Health Environment King Energy King Energy, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy kWh Kilowatt hour LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LTISA Long-Term Incentive and Share Award plan MDNR Missouri Department of Natural Resources MECG Midwest Energy Consumers Group MEEIA Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act Monarch Energy Monarch Energy Holding, Inc. MPSC Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri MW Megawatt MWh Megawatt hour NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards NAV Net Asset Value NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission NSR New source review OCI Other comprehensive income OPC Office of the Public Counsel PISA Plant-in service accounting Prairie Wind Prairie Wind Transmission, LLC, 50% owned by Evergy Kansas Central RSU Restricted share unit RTO Regional transmission organization SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SPP Southwest Power Pool, Inc. TCJA Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 5 Table of Contents Abbreviation or Acronym Definition TCR Transmission Congestion Rights TFR Transmission formula rate Transource Transource Energy, LLC and its subsidiaries, 13.5% owned by Evergy Transmission Company VIE Variable interest entity Wolf Creek Wolf Creek Generating Station 6 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Evergy, Inc., Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. and Evergy Metro, Inc. are separate registrants filing this combined annual report on Form 10-K. The terms "Evergy," "Evergy Kansas Central," "Evergy Metro" and "Evergy Companies" are used throughout this report. "Evergy" refers to Evergy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Kansas Central" refers to Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Metro" refers to Evergy Metro, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Companies" refers to Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central, and Evergy Metro, collectively, which are individual registrants within the Evergy consolidated group. Information in other Items of this report as to which reference is made in this Item 1 is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1. The use of terms such as "see" or "refer to" shall be deemed to incorporate into this Item 1 the information to which such reference is made. EVERGY, INC. Evergy is a public utility holding company incorporated in 2017 and headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri. Evergy operates primarily through the following wholly-owned direct subsidiaries listed below. In September 2019, these wholly-owned direct subsidiaries were rebranded and renamed under the Evergy brand name. Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. (Evergy Kansas Central), formerly known as Westar Energy, Inc., is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Kansas. Evergy Kansas Central has one active wholly-owned subsidiary with significant operations, Evergy Kansas South, Inc. (Evergy Kansas South), formerly known as Kansas Gas and Electric Company. Evergy Metro, Inc. (Evergy Metro), formerly known as Kansas City Power Light Company, is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the states of Missouri and Kansas. Evergy Missouri West, Inc. (Evergy Missouri West), formerly known as KCP L Greater Missouri Operations Company, is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Missouri. Evergy Transmission Company, LLC (Evergy Transmission Company), formerly known as GPE Transmission Holding Company, LLC, owns 13.5% of Transource Energy, LLC (Transource) with the remaining 86.5% owned by AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP). Transource is focused on the development of competitive electric transmission projects. Evergy Transmission Company accounts for its investment in Transource under the equity method. Evergy Kansas Central also owns a 50% interest in Prairie Wind Transmission, LLC (Prairie Wind), which is a joint venture between Evergy Kansas Central and subsidiaries of AEP and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company. Prairie Wind owns a 108-mile, 345 kV double-circuit transmission line that provides transmission service in the Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP). Evergy Kansas Central accounts for its investment in Prairie Wind under the equity method. Since the rebranding in September 2019, Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Kansas South, Evergy Metro, and Evergy Missouri West have been conducting business in their respective service territories using the name Evergy. The Evergy Companies assess financial performance and allocate resources on a consolidated basis (i.e., operates in one segment). Evergy serves approximately 1,604,300 customers located in Kansas and Missouri. Customers include approximately 1,407,700 residences, 189,600 commercial firms and 7,000 industrials, municipalities and other electric utilities. Evergy is significantly impacted by seasonality with approximately one-third of its retail revenues recorded in the third quarter. 7 Table of Contents The table below summarizes the percentage of Evergy's revenues by customer classification. 2019 2018 2017 Residential 37% 37% 32% Commercial 35% 32% 28% Industrial 12% 12% 16% Wholesale 7% 10% 12% Transmission 6% 7% 11% Other 3% 2% 1% Total 100% 100% 100% The table below summarizes the percentage of Evergy's retail electricity sales by customer class. 2019 2018 2017 Residential 36% 37% 32% Commercial 43% 41% 38% Industrial 21% 22% 30% Total 100% 100% 100% Merger of Great Plains Energy and Evergy Kansas Central Evergy was incorporated in 2017 as Monarch Energy Holding, Inc. (Monarch Energy), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Great Plains Energy Incorporated (Great Plains Energy). Prior to the closing of the merger transactions, Monarch Energy changed its name to Evergy and did not conduct any business activities other than those required for its formation and matters contemplated by the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 9, 2017, by and among Great Plains Energy, Evergy Kansas Central, Monarch Energy and King Energy, Inc. (King Energy), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Monarch Energy (Amended Merger Agreement). On June 4, 2018, Evergy completed the mergers contemplated by the Amended Merger Agreement. As a result of the mergers, Great Plains Energy merged into Evergy, with Evergy surviving the merger and King Energy merged into Evergy Kansas Central, with Evergy Kansas Central surviving the merger. Following the completion of these mergers, Evergy Kansas Central and the direct subsidiaries of Great Plains Energy, including Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West, became wholly-owned subsidiaries of Evergy. The merger was structured as a merger of equals in a tax-free exchange of shares that involved no premium paid or received with respect to either Great Plains Energy or Evergy Kansas Central. As a result of the closing of the merger transaction, each outstanding share of Great Plains Energy common stock was converted into 0.5981 shares of Evergy common stock and each outstanding share of Evergy Kansas Central common stock was converted into 1 share of Evergy common stock. Evergy Kansas Central was determined to be the accounting acquirer in the merger and thus, the predecessor of Evergy. Evergy had separate operations for the period beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and references to amounts for periods after the closing of the merger relate to Evergy. The results of Great Plains Energy's direct subsidiaries have been included in Evergy's results of operations from June 4, 2018, the date of the closing of the merger, and thereafter. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding the merger. Regulation Evergy Kansas Central's and Evergy Metro's Kansas operations are regulated by the State Corporation Commission of the State of Kansas (KCC) and Evergy Metro's Missouri operations and Evergy Missouri West are regulated by the Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri (MPSC), in each case with respect to retail rates, certain accounting matters, standards of service and, in certain cases, the issuance of securities, certification of facilities and 8 Table of Contents service territories. The Evergy Companies are also subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) with respect to transmission, wholesale sales and rates and other matters. Evergy has an indirect 94% ownership interest in Wolf Creek Generating Station (Wolf Creek), which is subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) with respect to licensing, operations and safety-related requirements. The table below summarizes the rate orders in effect for Evergy Kansas Central's, Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's retail rate jurisdictions. Regulator Allowed Return on Equity Rate-Making Equity Ratio Effective Date Evergy Kansas Central (a) KCC 9.3% 51.46% September 2018 Evergy Metro - Kansas KCC 9.3% 49.09% December 2018 Evergy Metro - Missouri MPSC (b) (b) December 2018 Evergy Missouri West MPSC (b) (b) December 2018 (a) The KCC establishes rates for Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Kansas South on a consolidated basis. (b) Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's current MPSC rate order does not contain an allowed return on equity or rate-making equity ratio. Evergy expects its 2020 Kansas and Missouri jurisdictional retail revenues to be approximately 60% and 40% , respectively, based on historical averages of Evergy Kansas Central's, Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's total retail revenues. See Item 7 MD A, Critical Accounting Policies section, and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning regulatory matters. Competition Missouri and Kansas continue to operate on the fully integrated and regulated retail utility model. As a result, the Evergy Companies do not compete with others to supply and deliver electricity in their franchised service territories in exchange for agreeing to have their terms of service regulated by state regulatory bodies. If Missouri or Kansas were to pass and implement legislation authorizing or mandating retail choice, Evergy may no longer be able to apply regulated utility accounting principles to deregulated portions of its operations, which may require a surcharge to recover certain costs from legacy customers or could lead to a write-off of certain regulatory assets and liabilities. Evergy competes in the wholesale market to sell power in circumstances when the power it generates is not required for retail customers in its service territory. This competition primarily occurs within the SPP Integrated Marketplace, in which Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are participants. This marketplace determines which generating units among market participants should run, within the operating constraints of a unit, at any given time for maximum regional cost-effectiveness. The SPP Integrated Marketplace is similar to other Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) or Independent System Operator (ISO) markets currently operating in other regions of the United States. Power Supply Evergy has 14,700 MWs of owned generating capacity and renewable purchased power agreements. Evergy's owned generation and purchased power from others, as a percentage of total MWhs generated and purchased, was approximately 71% and 29% , respectively, over the last two years. Evergy purchases power to meet its customers' needs, to satisfy firm power commitments or to meet renewable energy standards. Management believes Evergy will be able to meet its future purchased power needs due to the coordination of planning and operations in the SPP region and existing power purchase agreements; however, price and availability of power purchases may be impacted during periods of high demand. 9 Table of Contents Evergy's total capacity by fuel type, including both owned generating capacity and purchased power agreements, is detailed in the table below. Fuel Type Estimated MW Capacity Percent of Total Capacity Coal 5,903 40 % Natural gas and oil 3,988 27 Wind (a) 3,642 24 Uranium 1,104 8 Solar, landfill gas and hydroelectric (b) 72 1 Total capacity 14,709 100 % (a) MWs are based on nameplate capacity of the wind facility. Includes owned generating capacity of 579 MWs and long-term power purchase agreements of approximately 3,063 MWs of wind generation that expire in 2028 through 2048. See Item 2, Properties, for additional information. (b) Includes a long-term power purchase agreement for approximately 60 MWs of hydroelectric generation that expires in 2023. Evergy's projected peak summer demand for 2020 is approximately 10,367 MWs. Evergy expects to meet its projected capacity requirements for the foreseeable future with its existing generation assets and power and capacity purchases. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are members of the SPP. The SPP is a FERC-approved RTO with the responsibility to ensure reliable power supply, adequate transmission infrastructure and competitive wholesale electricity prices in the region. As SPP members, Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are required to maintain a minimum reserve margin of 12%. This net positive supply of capacity is maintained through generation asset ownership, capacity agreements, power purchase agreements and peak demand reduction programs. The reserve margin is designed to support reliability of the region's electric supply. Environmental Matters There have been, and management believes there will continue to be, policy, legal and regulatory efforts to influence climate change, such as efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), impose a tax on emissions and create incentives for low-carbon generation and energy efficiency. These efforts, and climate change itself, have the potential to adversely affect the Evergy Companies' results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information. The Evergy Companies have taken, and will continue to take, proactive measures to mitigate the impact of climate change on its businesses. For example, the Evergy Companies regularly conduct preparedness exercises for a variety of disruptive events, including storms, which may become more frequent or intense due to climate change. In addition, the Evergy Companies have invested, and will continue to invest, in grid resiliency. Much of the Evergy Companies' infrastructure is aged, and grid resiliency efforts include building additional transmission and distribution lines, replacing aged infrastructure and proactively managing the vegetation that can damage systems during severe weather. The Evergy Companies also monitor water conditions at their generating facilities and focus on water conservation at these facilities to address resource depletion. Transforming Evergy's Generation Fleet The Evergy Companies are committed to a long-term strategy to reduce carbon emissions in a cost-effective and reliable manner and are targeting to achieve an 80% reduction of carbon emissions by 2050 from 2005 levels. The trajectory and timing of reaching this goal could be impacted by political, legal and regulatory actions and technological matters. Public attention is currently focused on reducing GHG emissions and closing coal-fired generating units. Diversity of fuel supply has historically provided cost and reliability benefits. In addition, the Evergy Companies must prudently utilize the generation assets that regulators have allowed the Evergy Companies to include in rates and avoid "stranding" assets by prematurely closing facilities. The Evergy Companies use an integrated resource plan, which is a detailed analysis that estimates factors that influence the future supply and 10 Table of Contents demand for electricity, to inform the manner in which they supply electricity. The integrated resource plan considers forecasts of future electricity demand, fuel prices, transmission improvements, new generating capacity, integration of renewables, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response initiatives. Strategies that the Evergy Companies have pursued include: retiring fossil fuel generation; developing renewable energy facilities; collaborating with regulators to offer customers the opportunity to procure electricity produced with renewable resources; and investing in customer energy efficiency programs. Since 2005, the Evergy Companies have added over 3,500 megawatts of renewables, while retiring more than 2,400 megawatts of fossil generation. The transition of their generation fleet has allowed the Evergy Companies to reduce carbon emissions by almost 40% since 2005. The Evergy Companies are also committed to transparency. On its website, www.evergy.com, Evergy provides quantitative and qualitative data regarding various environmental, social and governance matters, including information related to emissions, waste and water. The contents of the website and report are not incorporated into this filing. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding environmental matters. Fuel The fuel sources for Evergy's owned generation and purchased power agreements are coal, wind and other renewable sources, uranium and natural gas and oil. The actual 2019 fuel mix and fuel cost in cents per net kilowatt hour (kWh) delivered are outlined in the following table. Fuel cost in cents per Fuel Mix (a) net kWh delivered (b) Actual Actual Fuel 2019 2019 Coal 50 % $2.03 Wind, hydroelectric, landfill gas and solar 27 2.36 Uranium 18 0.60 Natural gas and oil 5 2.91 Total 100 % $1.94 (a) Fuel mix based on percent of net MWhs generated by owned resources and delivered under renewable purchased power agreements. (b) Fuel cost in cents per net kWh delivered includes purchased power costs associated with renewable purchased power agreements. Coal During 2020 , Evergy's generating units, including jointly-owned units, are projected to use approximately 17 million tons of coal. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West have entered into coal-purchase contracts with various suppliers in Wyoming's Powder River Basin (PRB), the nation's principal supply region of low-sulfur coal, and with local suppliers. The coal to be provided under these contracts is expected to satisfy approximately 80% of the projected coal requirements for 2020 and approximately 10% for 2021 . The remainder of the coal requirements is expected to be fulfilled through entering into additional contracts or spot market purchases. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West have also entered into rail transportation contracts with various railroads to transport coal from the PRB and local suppliers to their generating units. The transportation services to be provided under these contracts are expected to satisfy almost all of the projected transportation requirements for 2020 and approximately 75% for 2021 . The contract rates adjust for changes in railroad costs. 11 Table of Contents Nuclear Fuel Evergy Kansas South and Evergy Metro each owns 47% of 