Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 28 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. Reserved 34 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 65 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 160 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 161 Item 9B. Other Information 164 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 164 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 164 Item 11. Executive Compensation 165 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 165 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 166 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 166 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 168 Signatures 190 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Statements made in this document that are not based on historical facts are forward-looking, may involve risks and uncertainties, and are intended to be as of the date when made. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to Evergy's strategic plan, including, without limitation, those related to earnings per share, dividend, operating and maintenance expense and capital investment goals; the outcome of legislative efforts and regulatory and legal proceedings; future energy demand; future power prices; plans with respect to existing and potential future generation resources; the availability and cost of generation resources and energy storage; target emissions reductions; and other matters relating to expected financial performance or affecting future operations. Forward-looking statements are often accompanied by forward-looking words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "forecasts," "should," "could," "may," "seeks," "intends," "proposed," "projects," "planned," "target," "outlook," "remain confident," "goal," "will" or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking information. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Evergy Companies are providing a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from the forward-looking information. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: economic and weather conditions and any impact on sales, prices and costs; changes in business strategy or operations; the impact of federal, state and local political, legislative, judicial and regulatory actions or developments, including deregulation, re-regulation, securitization and restructuring of the electric utility industry; decisions of regulators regarding, among other things, customer rates and the prudency of operational decisions such as capital expenditures and asset retirements; changes in applicable laws, regulations, rules, principles or practices, or the interpretations thereof, governing tax, accounting and environmental matters, including air and water quality and waste management and disposal; the impact of climate change, including increased frequency and severity of significant weather events and the extent to which counterparties are willing to do business with, finance the operations of or purchase energy from the Evergy Companies due to the fact that the Evergy Companies operate coal-fired generation; prices and availability of electricity and natural gas in wholesale markets; market perception of the energy industry and the Evergy Companies; the impact of future pandemic health events on, among other things, sales, results of operations, financial position, liquidity and cash flows, and also on operational issues, such as supply chain issues and the availability and ability of the Evergy Companies' employees and suppliers to perform the functions that are necessary to operate the Evergy Companies; changes in the energy trading markets in which the Evergy Companies participate, including retroactive repricing of transactions by regional transmission organizations (RTO) and independent system operators; financial market conditions and performance, disruptions in the banking industry, including volatility in interest rates and credit spreads and in availability and cost of capital and the effects on derivatives and hedges, nuclear decommissioning trust and pension plan assets and costs; impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill; credit ratings; inflation rates; effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures and the ability of counterparties to satisfy their contractual commitments; impact of physical and cybersecurity breaches, criminal activity, terrorist attacks, acts of war and other disruptions to the Evergy Companies' facilities or information technology infrastructure or the facilities and infrastructure of third-party service providers on which the Evergy Companies rely; impact of geopolitical conflicts on the global energy market; ability to carry out marketing and sales plans; cost, availability, quality and timely provision of equipment, supplies, labor and fuel; impacts of tariffs; ability to achieve generation goals and the occurrence and duration of planned and unplanned generation outages; delays and cost increases of generation, transmission, distribution or other projects; the Evergy Companies' ability to manage their transmission and distribution development plans and transmission joint ventures; the inherent risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear facility, including environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks; workforce risks, including those related to the Evergy Companies' ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, maintain satisfactory relationships with their labor unions and manage costs of, or changes in, wages, retirement, health care and other benefits; disruption, costs and uncertainties caused by or related to the actions of individuals or entities, such as activist shareholders or special interest groups, that seek to influence Evergy's strategic plan, financial results or operations; the impact of changing expectations and demands of the Evergy Companies' customers, regulators, investors and stakeholders, including heightened emphasis on environmental, social and governance concerns; the possibility that strategic initiatives, including mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, and long-term financial plans, may not create the value that they 3 Table of Contents are expected to achieve in a timely manner or at all; difficulties in maintaining relationships with customers, employees, regulators or suppliers; and other risks and uncertainties. This list of factors is not all-inclusive because it is not possible to predict all factors. You should also carefully consider the information contained in the Evergy Companies' other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Additional risks and uncertainties are discussed from time to time in current, quarterly and annual reports filed by the Evergy Companies with the SEC. New factors emerge from time to time, and it's not possible for the Evergy Companies to predict all such factors, nor can the Evergy Companies assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in any forward-looking statement. Given these uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements. The Evergy Companies undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Evergy Companies, including their combined annual reports on Form 10-K, combined quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with the SEC, is also available through the Evergy Companies' website, http://investors.evergy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should note that the Evergy Companies announce material financial information in SEC filings, press releases and public conference calls. In accordance with SEC guidelines, the Evergy Companies also use the Investor Relations section of their website, http://investors.evergy.com, to communicate with investors. It is possible that the financial and other information posted there could be deemed to be material information. The information on the Evergy Companies' website is not part of this document. 4 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF TERMS The following is a glossary of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found throughout this report. Abbreviation or Acronym Definition AAO Accounting authority order AEP American Electric Power Company, Inc. AFUDC Allowance for funds used during construction AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income AROs Asset retirement obligations CAA Clean Air Act CCN Certificate of Convenience and Necessity CCRs Coal combustion residuals CO 2 Carbon dioxide CO 2 e Carbon dioxide equivalent COLI Corporate-owned life insurance COVID-19 Coronavirus CSAPR Cross-State Air Pollution Dogwood Dogwood Energy Center ELG Effluent limitations guidelines EPA Environmental Protection Agency EPS Earnings per common share ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ERSP Earnings Review and Sharing Plan Evergy Evergy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries Evergy Board Evergy Board of Directors Evergy Companies Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central, and Evergy Metro, collectively, which are individual registrants within the Evergy consolidated group Evergy Kansas Central Evergy Kansas Central, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy, and its consolidated subsidiaries Evergy Kansas South Evergy Kansas South, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy Kansas Central Evergy Metro Evergy Metro, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy, and its consolidated subsidiaries Evergy Missouri West Evergy Missouri West, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Evergy Evergy Transmission Company Evergy Transmission Company, LLC Exchange Act The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended February 2021 winter weather event Significant winter weather event in February 2021 that resulted in extremely cold temperatures over a multi-day period across much of the central and southern United States FERC Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FMBs First Mortgage Bonds GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GHG Greenhouse gas Great Plains Energy Great Plains Energy Incorporated IRA Inflation Reduction Act ITFIP Interstate Transport Federal Implementation Plans ITSIP Interstate Transport State Implementation Plans 5 Table of Contents Abbreviation or Acronym Definition JEC Jeffrey Energy Center KCC State Corporation Commission of the State of Kansas KDHE Kansas Department of Health Environment KEEIA Kansas Energy Efficiency Investment Act kV Kilovolt kWh Kilowatt hour MDNR Missouri Department of Natural Resources MEEIA Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act MPSC Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri MW Megawatt MWh Megawatt hour NAAQS National Ambient Air Quality Standards NAV Net asset value NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NOL Net operating loss NRC Nuclear Regulatory Commission OCI Other comprehensive income OPC Office of the Public Counsel Persimmon Creek Persimmon Creek Wind Farm 1, LLC PISA Plant-in-service accounting Prairie Wind Prairie Wind Transmission, LLC, 50% owned by Evergy Kansas Central PTC Production tax credit RSU Restricted share unit RTO Regional transmission organization Scope 1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions that occur from sources that are controlled or owned by an organization Scope 2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions associated with the purchase of electricity, steam, heat or cooling SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SIP State implementation plan SPP Southwest Power Pool, Inc. TCR Transmission congestion right TDC Transmission delivery charge Term Loan Facility Term Loan Credit Agreement TFR Transmission formula rate Transource Transource Energy, LLC and its subsidiaries, 13.5% owned by Evergy Transmission Company UGSOA United Government Security Officers of America VIE Variable interest entity Wolf Creek Wolf Creek Generating Station 6 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Evergy, Inc., Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. and Evergy Metro, Inc. are separate registrants filing this combined annual report on Form 10-K. The terms "Evergy," "Evergy Kansas Central," "Evergy Metro" and "Evergy Companies" are used throughout this report. "Evergy" refers to Evergy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Kansas Central" refers to Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Metro" refers to Evergy Metro, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Companies" refers to Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central, and Evergy Metro, collectively, which are individual registrants within the Evergy consolidated group. Information in other Items of this report as to which reference is made in this Item 1 is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1. The use of terms such as "see" or "refer to" shall be deemed to incorporate into this Item 1 the information to which such reference is made. EVERGY, INC. Evergy is a public utility holding company incorporated in 2017 and headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri. Evergy operates primarily through the following wholly-owned direct subsidiaries listed below. Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. (Evergy Kansas Central) is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Kansas. Evergy Kansas Central has one active wholly-owned subsidiary with significant operations, Evergy Kansas South, Inc. (Evergy Kansas South). Evergy Metro, Inc. (Evergy Metro) is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the states of Missouri and Kansas. Evergy Missouri West, Inc. (Evergy Missouri West) is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Missouri. Evergy Transmission Company, LLC (Evergy Transmission Company) owns 13.5% of Transource Energy, LLC (Transource) with the remaining 86.5% owned by AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP). Transource is focused on the development of competitive electric transmission projects. Evergy Transmission Company accounts for its investment in Transource under the equity method. Evergy Kansas Central also owns a 50% interest in Prairie Wind Transmission, LLC (Prairie Wind), which is a joint venture between Evergy Kansas Central and subsidiaries of AEP and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company. Prairie Wind owns a 108-mile, 345 kilovolt (kV) double-circuit transmission line that provides transmission service in the Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP). Evergy Kansas Central accounts for its investment in Prairie Wind under the equity method. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Kansas South, Evergy Metro, and Evergy Missouri West conduct business in their respective service territories using the name Evergy. The Evergy Companies assess financial performance and allocate resources on a consolidated basis (i.e., operate in one segment). Evergy serves approximately 1.7 million customers located in Kansas and Missouri. Customers include approximately 1.5 million residences, 0.2 million commercial firms and 7,800 industrials, municipalities and other electric utilities. Evergy is significantly impacted by seasonality with approximately one-third of its retail revenues recorded in the third quarter. 7 Table of Contents Evergy expects to continue operating its integrated utilities within the currently existing regulatory frameworks and is focused on empowering a better future for its customers, communities, employees and shareholders. The core tenets of Evergy's strategy are as follows: Affordability operating the business cost-effectively and investing in technology and infrastructure to keep rates affordable and improve regional rate competitiveness; mitigating fuel and purchased power volatility by investing in a diverse generation fleet; Reliability targeting transmission and distribution infrastructure investment to support reliability, flexibility, public safety, and resiliency; deploying new technology to improve preventive maintenance and customer restoration times; and Sustainability investing at sustainable capital expenditure levels to maintain reliability and customer affordability for the long-term and balancing clean energy investment to continue fuel diversification and enable a responsible generation portfolio transition. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Operations (MD A) Executive Summary Strategy, for additional information. The table below summarizes the percentage of Evergy's revenues by customer class. 2023 2022 2021 Residential 37% 37% 34% Commercial 33% 32% 30% Industrial 12% 12% 11% Wholesale 7% 9% 13% Transmission 7% 6% 6% Other 4% 4% 6% Total 100% 100% 100% The table below summarizes the percentage of Evergy's retail electricity sales by customer class. 2023 2022 2021 Residential 37% 38% 37% Commercial 43% 42% 42% Industrial 20% 20% 21% Total 100% 100% 100% Regulation Evergy Kansas Central's and Evergy Metro's Kansas operations are regulated by the State Corporation Commission of the State of Kansas (KCC) and Evergy Metro's Missouri operations and Evergy Missouri West are regulated by the Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri (MPSC), in each case with respect to retail rates, certain accounting matters, standards of service and, in certain cases, the issuance of securities, certification of facilities and service territories. The Evergy Companies are also subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) with respect to transmission, wholesale sales and rates, the issuance of securities in certain cases and other matters. Evergy has an indirect 94% ownership interest in Wolf Creek Generating Station (Wolf Creek), which is subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) with respect to licensing, operations and safety-related requirements. 8 Table of Contents The table below summarizes the rate orders in effect for Evergy Kansas Central's, Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's retail rate jurisdictions. Regulator Allowed Return on Equity Effective Date Evergy Kansas Central (a) KCC 9.4% (b) December 2023 Evergy Metro - Kansas KCC 9.4% (b) December 2023 Evergy Metro - Missouri MPSC (c) January 2023 Evergy Missouri West MPSC (c) January 2023 (a) The KCC establishes rates for Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Kansas South on a consolidated basis. (b) Current KCC rate orders do not contain an explicit allowed return on equity. The return on equity presented in this table reflects the current order in Kansas which stated an allowed return on equity to be utilized for purposes of the transmission delivery charge (TDC). (c) Current MPSC rate orders do not contain an explicit allowed return on equity. Evergy expects its 2024 Kansas and Missouri jurisdictional retail revenues to be approximately 60% and 40%, respectively, based on historical averages of Evergy Kansas Central's, Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's total retail revenues. See Item 7, MD A, Critical Accounting Policies section, and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning regulatory matters. Competition Missouri and Kansas continue to operate on the fully integrated and regulated retail utility model. As a result, the Evergy Companies do not compete with others to supply and deliver electricity in their franchised service territories in exchange for agreeing to have their terms of service regulated by state regulatory bodies. If Missouri or Kansas were to pass and implement legislation authorizing or mandating retail choice, Evergy may no longer be able to apply regulated utility accounting principles to deregulated portions of its operations, which may require a surcharge to recover certain costs from legacy customers or could lead to a write-off of certain regulatory assets and liabilities. Evergy competes in the wholesale market to sell power in circumstances when the power it generates is not required for retail customers in its service territory. This competition primarily occurs within the SPP Integrated Marketplace, in which Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are participants. This marketplace determines which generating units among market participants should run, within the operating constraints of a unit, at any given time for maximum regional cost-effectiveness. The Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP) Integrated Marketplace is similar to other regional transmission organization (RTO) or Independent System Operator (ISO) markets currently operating in other regions of the United States. Power Supply Evergy has approximately 15,600 megawatts (MWs) of owned generating capacity and renewable power purchase agreements. Evergy's owned generation and power purchases from others, as a percentage of total megawatt hours (MWhs) generated and purchased, was approximately 60% and 40%, respectively, over the last three years. About 60% of Evergy's purchased power was purchased under long-term renewable purchased power contracts over the last three years. Evergy purchases power to meet its customers' needs, to satisfy firm power commitments or to meet renewable energy standards. Management believes Evergy will be able to meet its future power purchase needs due to the coordination of planning and operations in the SPP region and existing power purchase agreements; however, price and availability of power purchases may be impacted during periods of high demand or reduced supply. 9 Table of Contents Evergy's total capacity by fuel type, including both owned generating capacity and power purchase agreements, is detailed in the table below. Fuel Type Estimated 2024 MW Capacity Percent of Total Capacity Coal 5,930 38 % Wind (a) 4,525 29 Natural gas and oil 4,065 26 Uranium 1,106 7 Solar and landfill gas 22 Total capacity 15,648 100 % (a) MWs are based on nameplate capacity of the wind facility. Includes owned generating capacity of 778 MWs and long-term power purchase agreements of approximately 3,747 MWs of wind generation that expire from 2028 through 2048. See Item 2, Properties, for additional information. Evergy's projected peak summer demand for 2024 is approximately 10,400 MWs. Evergy expects to meet its projected capacity requirements for 2024 with its existing generation assets and power purchases. See "Transitioning Evergy's Generation Fleet" below for further information regarding Evergy's long-term strategy with regard to its generating assets and power purchases. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are members of the SPP. The SPP is a FERC-approved RTO with the responsibility to ensure reliable power supply, adequate transmission infrastructure and competitive wholesale electricity prices in the region. As SPP members, Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are required to maintain a minimum reserve margin of 15%. This net positive supply of capacity is maintained through generation asset ownership, capacity agreements, power purchase agreements and peak demand reduction programs. The reserve margin is designed to support reliability of the region's electric supply. Environmental Matters The Evergy Companies are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to air and water quality, waste management and hazardous substance disposal, protected natural resources (such as wetlands, federally-listed species and other protected wildlife) and health and safety. For example, Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West combust large amounts of fossil fuels in the production of electricity, which results in significant emissions of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and other greenhouse gases (GHG). Federal legislation regulates the emission of GHGs and numerous states and regions have adopted programs to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) regulate emissions under the Clean Air Act (CAA), water under the Clean Water Act and waste management under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, among other laws and regulations. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. There have been, and management believes there will continue to be, policy, legal and regulatory efforts to influence climate change, such as efforts to reduce GHG emissions, impose a tax on those emissions and create incentives for low-carbon generation and energy efficiency. These efforts, and climate change itself, have the potential to adversely affect the Evergy Companies' operations, financial position and cash flows. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information. The Evergy Companies have taken, and will continue to take, proactive measures to mitigate the impact of climate change on its businesses. For example, the Evergy Companies regularly conduct preparedness exercises for a variety of disruptive events, including storms, which may become more frequent or intense due to climate change. In addition, the Evergy Companies have invested, and will continue to invest, in grid resiliency. Much of the Evergy Companies' infrastructure is old and outdated, and grid resiliency efforts include building additional transmission and distribution lines, replacing old and outdated infrastructure and proactively managing the vegetation that can damage systems during severe weather. The Evergy Companies also monitor water conditions at their generating facilities and focus on water conservation at these facilities to address resource depletion. 10 Table of Contents Transitioning Evergy's Generation Fleet The Evergy Companies are committed to a long-term strategy to reduce CO 2 emissions in a cost-effective and reliable manner. In 2023, Evergy achieved a reduction of CO 2 emissions, from owned generation, by half from 2005 levels. Evergy has a goal to achieve net-zero carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2 e) emissions, for scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, by 2045 with an interim goal of a 70% reduction of owned generation CO 2 emissions from 2005 levels by 2030 through the responsible transition of the Evergy Companies' generation fleet. The trajectory and timing of achieving these emissions reductions are expected to be dependent on many external factors, including enabling technology developments, the reliability of the power grid, availability of transmission capacity, supportive energy policies and regulations, and other factors. See "Cautionary Statements Regarding Certain Forward-Looking Information" and Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information. Public attention is currently focused on transitioning to a low carbon future, including reducing GHG emissions and closing coal-fired generating units. Diversity of fuel supply has historically provided cost and reliability benefits. For example, because renewable generation can be intermittent, diversity of baseload generation fuel, including a mix of coal and natural gas, has helped to maintain a consistent availability of power. In addition, the Evergy Companies must prudently utilize the generation assets that regulators have allowed the Evergy Companies to include in rates. The Evergy Companies use a triennial integrated resource plan, a detailed analysis that estimates factors that influence the future supply and demand for electricity, to inform the manner in which they supply electricity. The integrated resource plan considers forecasts of future electricity demand, fuel prices, transmission improvements, new generating capacity, cost of environmental compliance, integration of renewables, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response initiatives. Strategies that the Evergy Companies are pursuing to reduce emissions include: retiring fossil fuel generation; developing renewable energy facilities; grid investment and advancement; collaborating with regulators to offer customers the opportunity to procure electricity produced with renewable resources; and investing in customer energy efficiency programs. Since 2005, the Evergy Companies have added over 4,600 MWs of renewable generation, while retiring more than 2,400 MWs of fossil generation. See Item 2, Properties, for additional information regarding the Evergy Companies' renewable generation re