Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. [Reserved] 26 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 94 Item 9B. Other Information 94 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 94 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 95 Item 11. Executive Compensation 95 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 95 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 95 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 95 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 96 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 97 Signatures 98 Table of Contents PART I NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend the forward-looking statements contained in this report to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of such Acts. Statements other than statements of historical or current fact in this report or referred to or incorporated by reference into this report are "forward-looking statements" for purposes of these safe harbor provisions. These statements can sometimes be identified by the use of the forward-looking words such as "may," "believe," "will," "expect," "project," "estimate," "should," "anticipate," "plan," "goal," "continue," "seek," "pro forma," "forecast," "intend," "guidance," "optimistic," "aspire," "confident," other forms of these words or similar words or expressions or the negatives thereof. Statements regarding past performance, efforts, or results about which inferences or assumptions may be made can also be forward-looking statements and are not indicative of future performance or results; these statements can be identified by the use of words such as "preliminary," "initial," "potential," "possible," "diligence," "industry-leading," "compliant," "indications," or "early feedback" or other forms of these words or similar words or expressions or the negatives thereof. These forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause our results or future business, financial condition, results of operations or performance to differ materially from our historical results or experiences or those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the spin-off of our critical care product group, our ability to develop new products and avoid manufacturing and quality issues; clinical trial or commercial results or new product approvals and therapy adoption; the impact of domestic and global economic conditions; competition in the markets in which we operate; our reliance on vendors, suppliers, and other third parties; damage, failure, or interruption of our information technology systems; the impact of public health crises; consolidation in the healthcare industry; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our compliance with applicable regulations; our exposure to product liability claims; use of our products in unapproved circumstances; changes to reimbursement for our products; the impact of currency exchange rates; unanticipated actions by the United States Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies; changes to tax laws; unexpected impacts or expenses of litigation or internal or government investigations; and other risks detailed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A below, as such risks and uncertainties may be amended, supplemented or superseded from time to time by our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K we file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of the statement. If we do update or correct one or more of these statements, investors and others should not conclude that we will make additional updates or corrections. Unless otherwise indicated or otherwise required by the context, the terms "we," "our," "it," "its," "Company," "Edwards," and "Edwards Lifesciences" refer to Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and its subsidiaries. WEBSITE REFERENCES In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we make references to our website at www.edwards.com. References to our website through this Form 10-K are provided for convenience only and the content of our website does not constitute a part of, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 1 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Overview Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is the global leader in patient-focused medical innovations for structural heart disease and critical care monitoring. Driven by a passion to help patients, we partner with the world s leading clinicians and researchers and invest in research and development to transform care for those impacted by structural heart disease or who require hemodynamic monitoring during surgery or in intensive care. Edwards Lifesciences has been a leader in our field for over six decades. Since our founder, Lowell Edwards, first dreamed of using engineering to address diseases of the human heart, we have steadily built a company on the premise of imagining, building, and realizing a better future for patients. A pioneer in the development of heart valve therapies, we are the world's leading manufacturer of heart valve systems and repair products used to replace or repair a patient's diseased or defective heart valve. Our innovative work in heart valves encompasses both surgical and transcatheter therapies for heart valve replacement and repair. In addition, our robust pipeline of future technologies is focused on the less invasive repair or replacement of the mitral and tricuspid valves of the heart, which are more complex and more challenging to treat than the aortic valve. We are also a global leader in hemodynamic and noninvasive brain and tissue oxygenation monitoring systems used to measure a patient's cardiovascular function in the hospital setting. Cardiovascular disease is the number-one cause of death in the world and is the top disease in terms of health care spending in nearly every country. In the U.S. alone, one cardiovascular patient dies every 33 seconds. Cardiovascular disease is progressive in that it tends to worsen over time and often affects the structure of an individual's heart. Our vision is to transform patient care where patients are diagnosed earlier, treated in a routine fashion, living longer and enjoying a better quality of life. Patients undergoing treatment for cardiovascular disease can be treated with a number of our medical technologies, which are designed to address individual patient needs with respect to disease process, comorbidities, and health status. For example, an individual with a heart valve disorder may have a faulty valve that is affecting the function of his or her heart or blood flow throughout his or her body. A cardiac surgeon may elect to remove the valve and replace it with one of our bioprosthetic surgical tissue heart valves or surgically re-shape and repair the faulty valve with an Edwards Lifesciences annuloplasty ring. Alternatively, a clinician (typically an interventional cardiologist) may implant an Edwards Lifesciences transcatheter valve or repair system via a catheter-based approach that does not require traditional open-heart surgery and can be done while the heart continues to beat. Patients in the hospital setting, including high-risk patients in the operating room or intensive care unit, are candidates for having their cardiac function or fluid levels monitored by our Critical Care products through multiple monitoring options, including noninvasive and minimally-invasive technologies. These technologies enable proactive clinical decisions while also providing the opportunity for improving diagnoses and developing individualized therapeutic management plans for patients. Corporate Background Our principal executive offices are located at One Edwards Way, Irvine, California 92614. The telephone number at that address is (949) 250-2500. We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.edwards.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. Edwards Lifesciences' Product and Technology Offerings The following discussion summarizes the main groups of products and technologies we offer to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. Our products and technologies are categorized into four main groups: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies, Surgical Structural Heart, and Critical Care. For more information on net sales from these four main groups, see "Net Sales by Product Group " in Part II, Item 7 " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ." Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement We are the global leader in transcatheter heart valve replacement technologies designed for the minimally-invasive replacement of aortic heart valves. The Edwards SAPIEN family of valves , including the Edwards SAPIEN 3, the Edwards SAPIEN 3 Ultra, and the Edwards SAPIEN 3 Ultra RESILIA systems, are catheter-based approaches for treating patients who 2 Table of Contents have severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. The SAPIEN 3 valves are delivered while the heart is still beating. The majority of procedures are conducted without the use of general anesthesia and patients are discharged home within one to two days. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement with the SAPIEN 3 family of valves enables patients to recover more quickly and return to a better quality of life sooner than patients receiving traditional open heart surgical therapies. Edwards' transcatheter aortic heart valves were first commercialized in Europe in 2007, in the United States in 2011, and in Japan in 2013. Edwards has partnered with the physician community to generate groundbreaking data that has expanded access to patients of all risk profiles. In 2023, The PARTNER 3 Trial, which demonstrated a 99% freedom from stroke or mortality at 1 year, had 5-year data presented with a 90% freedom from all-cause mortality. The SAPIEN 3 platform remains the only transcatheter heart valve with a THV-in-THV indication for patients assessed at high-risk for surgical replacement, offering patients the ability to have a second minimally invasive procedure. The SAPIEN family of valves are the most widely implanted transcatheter heart valves in the world with over one million patients lives impacted since launch. Additionally, the Edwards SAPIEN 3 system and Alterra system offer a minimally invasive option for pulmonary valve replacement for patients with congenital heart disease. Sales of our transcatheter aortic valve replacement products represented 65% of our net sales in each of 2023, 2022, and 2021. Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies We continue to make significant investments in the development of transcatheter heart valve repair and replacement technologies designed to treat mitral and tricuspid valve diseases. While many of these technologies are in development and clinical phases, the PASCAL PRECISION and Cardioband transcatheter valve repair systems are commercially available in Europe for mitral and tricuspid valve repair. As of 2023, the PASCAL PRECISION system is also commercially available in the U.S. and Japan for degenerative mitral regurgitation patients. The PASCAL PRECISION system addresses the needs of patients with mitral or tricuspid regurgitation through leaflet approximation, while the Cardioband system enables clinicians to reduce the valve's annulus and lower regurgitation. In addition to transcatheter repair, we believe transcatheter replacement is key to unlocking the full mitral and tricuspid opportunity. We believe our mitral replacement strategy positions us for leadership in the mid-to-long term. SAPIEN M3 is based on the proven SAPIEN valve and is designed specifically for mitral patients. For tricuspid valve replacement, our EVOQUE system is delivered through a low-profile transfemoral sub 30-French system, and available in a variety of valve sizes to enable treatment in a wide range of patient anatomies. In 2023, the EVOQUE system received CE Mark approval for the transcatheter treatment of eligible patients with tricuspid regurgitation. More recently, in February 2024, the EVOQUE system received United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") approval for the treatment of tricuspid regurgitation. This development will give a wide range of U.S. patients access to a treatment option that not only has the potential to improve quality-of-life, but also showed favorable clinical trends in all-cause mortality, re-intervention, and heart failure hospitalizations. The EVOQUE system is the world's first transcatheter valve replacement therapy to receive regulatory approval to treat tricuspid regurgitation. Surgical Structural Heart We continue to invest in bringing innovations to cardiac surgery patients. Our RESILIA tissue, with published clinical data showing 99% freedom from structural valve deterioration through seven years 1 , has set the new standard for tissue valve durability. Our flagship INSPIRIS RESILIA aortic valve, offers RESILIA tissue and VFit technology. INSPIRIS is the leading aortic surgical valve in the world. Sales of our surgical therapies in the United States also continue to gain traction with KONECT RESILIA , the first pre-assembled, ready to implant, tissue valved conduit for complex combined procedures. Our latest innovation, the MITRIS RESILIA valve, is now commercially available in Europe as well as other geographies, including the U.S. and Japan, where it has been strongly adopted by surgeons as the leading product in our mitral valve portfolio. We believe the demand for surgical structural heart therapies is growing worldwide, and that our innovation strategy will continue to strengthen our leadership and positive impact on patients. Sales of our surgical tissue heart valve products represented 16%, 15%, and 16% of our net sales in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. 1 Bavaria, et al. Five-year Outcomes of the COMMENCE trial investigating Aortic Valve Replacement with a Bioprosthetic Valve with a Novel Tissue. The Society of Thoracic Surgeons 2021 Annual Meeting; Bartus, et al. Final 5-year outcomes following aortic valve replacement with RESILIA tissue bio prosthesis. European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, 2020. 3 Table of Contents Critical Care We are the world leader in advanced hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's heart function and fluid status in surgical and intensive care settings. Edwards complete hemodynamic portfolio helps clinicians make proactive clinical decisions that can improve patient recovery. The portfolio includes the minimally-invasive FloTrac and Acumen IQ sensors, the noninvasive ClearSight and Acumen IQ cuffs, and the ForeSight noninvasive tissue oximetry sensor. We also support clinical needs with our well-established Swan-Ganz pulmonary artery catheters and arterial pressure monitoring products. Compatible with our portfolio of sensors and catheters, the HemoSphere monitoring platform displays valuable physiological information. Our first predictive algorithm, Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index software, alerts clinicians in advance of a patient developing dangerously low blood pressure. Our latest algorithm, Acumen Assisted Fluid Management software, provides patient-specific fluid suggestions to help keep patients in an optimal range during surgery. On December 7, 2023, we announced plans for a tax-free spin-off of our Critical Care product group as a separate publicly traded company to Edwards Lifesciences' shareholders. While we expect to complete the Critical Care spin-off around the end of 2024, we remain committed to supporting strong momentum and growth during the transition period. The team will advance innovative advanced patient monitoring solutions, with the goal of improving the quality of care for millions of patients annually. Critical Care is currently integrating a full range of smart monitoring technologies into the seventh generation of its HemoSphere platform, creating a unique offering of enhanced recovery tools. Competition The medical technology industry is highly competitive. We compete with divisions of larger companies as well as smaller companies that offer competitive product lines in certain geographies in which we operate. We also compete with both established and newer technologies that target the patients served by our products. New product development and technological change characterize the areas in which we compete. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug therapies. We believe we hold leadership positions because we develop and produce safe and effective therapies supported by rigorous clinical studies with extensive data and with innovative features that can enhance patient benefit and product performance and reliability, as well as benefit healthcare systems. The benefits associated with our products are in part due to the level of customer and clinical support we provide. The cardiovascular segment of the medical technology industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform, industry and customer consolidation, and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly important for medical technology manufacturers. We believe that we are a leading global competitor in each of our product lines. In Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, our primary competitors include Medtronic PLC, Abbott Laboratories ("Abbott"), and Boston Scientific Corporation. In Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies, our primary competitor is Abbott, and there are a considerable number of large and small companies with development efforts in these fields. In Surgical Structural Heart, our primary competitors include Medtronic PLC, Abbott, and Artivion, Inc (formerly CryoLife). In Critical Care, we compete primarily with a variety of companies in specific product lines including ICU Medical, Inc., PULSION Medical Systems SE, a subsidiary of Getinge AB, Cheetah Medical, Inc., a subsidiary of Baxter International, and LiDCO Group PLC, a subsidiary of Masimo Corporation. Sales and Marketing Our portfolio includes some of the most recognizable cardiovascular device product brands in treating structural heart disease today. We have a number of product lines that require sales and marketing strategies tailored to deliver high-quality, cost-effective products and technologies to customers worldwide. Because of the diverse global needs of the population that we serve, our distribution system consists of several direct sales forces as well as independent distributors. We are not dependent on any single customer and no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in 2023. To achieve optimal outcomes for patients, we conduct educational symposia and best practices training for our physician, hospital executive, service line leadership, nursing, and clinical-based customers. We rely extensively on our sales and field clinical specialist personnel who work closely with our customers in hospitals. Field clinical specialists routinely attend procedures where Edwards' products are being used in order to provide guidance on the use of our devices, thereby enabling physicians and staff to reach expert proficiency and deliver positive patient outcomes. In addition to working closely with 4 Table of Contents physicians, nurses, and other clinical personnel, our customers include decision makers such as service line leaders, material managers, biomedical staff, hospital administrators and executives, purchasing managers, and ministries of health. Also, for certain of our product lines and where appropriate, our corporate sales team actively pursues approval of Edwards Lifesciences as a qualified supplier for hospital group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") that negotiate contracts with suppliers of medical products. Additionally, we have contracts with a number of United States and European national and regional buying groups, including healthcare systems and Integrated Delivery Networks. Where we choose to market our products is also influenced by the existence of, or potential for, adequate reimbursement to hospitals and other providers by national healthcare systems. United States. In the United States, we sell substantially all of our products through our direct sales forces. In 2023, 58% of our net sales were derived from sales to customers in the United States. Outside of the United States. In 2023, 42% of our net sales were derived outside of the United States through our direct sales forces and independent distributors. Of the total sales outside of the United States, 53% were in Europe, 18% were in Japan, and 28% were in Rest of World. We sell our products in approximately 100 countries, including Japan, Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, China, and Canada. A majority of the sales and marketing approach outside of the United States is direct sales, although it varies depending on each country's size and state of development. Raw Materials and Manufacturing We operate manufacturing facilities in various geographies around the world. We manufacture our Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid technologies, and Structural Surgical Heart products primarily in the United States (California and Utah), Singapore, Costa Rica, and Ireland. We manufacture our Critical Care products primarily in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. We use a diverse and broad range of raw and organic materials in the design, development, and manufacture of our products. We manufacture our non-implantable products from fabricated raw materials including resins, chemicals, electronics, and metals. Most of our replacement heart valves are manufactured from natural tissues harvested from animal tissue as well as fabricated materials. We purchase certain materials and components used in manufacturing our products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase certain supplies from single sources for reasons of sole source availability or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We work with our suppliers to mitigate risk and seek continuity of supply while maintaining quality and reliability. Alternative supplier options are generally considered, identified, and approved for materials deemed critical to our products, although we do not typically pursue immediate regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships and the time and expense associated with the regulatory validation process. We comply with all current global guidelines regarding risks for products incorporating animal tissue intended to be implanted in humans. We follow rigorous sourcing and manufacturing procedures intended to safeguard humans from potential risks associated with diseases such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ("BSE"). We obtain bovine tissue used in our pericardial tissue valve products only from sources within the United States and Australia, where strong control measures and surveillance programs exist. In addition, bovine tissue used in our pericardial tissue valve products is from tissue types considered by global health and regulatory organizations to have shown no risk of infectibility. Our manufacturing and sterilization processes are designed to render tissue biologically safe from all known infectious agents and viruses. Quality Assurance We are committed to providing quality products to patients and have implemented modern quality systems and concepts throughout the organization. The quality system starts with the initial design concept, risk management, and product specification, and continues through the design of the product, packaging and labeling, and the manufacturing, sales, support, and servicing of the product. The quality system is intended to design quality into the products and uses continuous improvement concepts, including Lean/Six Sigma principles, throughout the product lifecycle. Our operations are frequently inspected by the many regulators that oversee medical device manufacturing, including the FDA, European Notified Bodies, and other regulatory entities. The medical technology industry is highly regulated and our facilities and operations are designed to comply with all applicable quality systems standards, including the International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 13485:2016. These standards require, among other items, quality system controls that are applied to product design, component material, suppliers, and manufacturing operations. These regulatory approvals and ISO certifications can be obtained only after a successful audit of a company's quality system has been conducted by regulatory 5 Table of Contents or independent outside auditors. Periodic reexamination by an independent outside auditor is required to maintain these certifications. Environmental, Health, and Safety We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace and complying with all relevant regulations and medical technology industry standards. Through our corporate and site level Environmental, Health, and Safety functions, we establish and monitor programs to reduce pollution, prevent injuries, and maintain compliance with applicable regulations. In order to measure performance, we monitor and report on a number of metrics, including regulated and non-regulated waste disposal, energy usage, water consumption, air toxic emissions, and injuries from our production activities. Each of our manufacturing sites is evaluated regularly with respect to a broad range of Environmental, Health, and Safety criteria. Research and Development In 2023, we made significant investments in research and development as we worked to develop therapies that we believe have the potential to change the practice of medicine. Research and development spending increased 13% year over year, representing 18% of 2023 sales. This increase was primarily the result of significant investments in our transcatheter structural heart programs, including an increase in clinical research for our mitral, aortic, and tricuspid therapies. We are engaged in ongoing research and development to deliver clinically advanced new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our current leading products, and to expand the applications of our products as appropriate. We focus on opportunities within specific areas of structural heart disease and critical care monitoring. A considerable portion of our research and development investment includes clinical trials and the collection of evidence that provide data for use in regulatory submissions, and required post-market approval studies involving applications of our products. Our investment in clinical studies also includes outcomes and cost-effectiveness data for payers, clinicians, and healthcare systems. In Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, we are developing new products to further improve and streamline transcatheter aortic heart valve replacement procedures. In Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies, we are making significant investments in innovation and clinical evidence to develop technologies designed to treat mitral and tricuspid valve diseases. Our Surgical Structural Heart development programs include innovative platforms for patients who are best treated surgically, specifically active patients and patients with more complex combined procedures. In our Critical Care product line, we are pursuing the development of a variety of decision support solutions for our clinicians. This includes next-generation noninvasive and minimally-invasive hemodynamic monitoring systems, and a next-generation monitor platform. We are also developing a decision support software suite with advanced algorithms for proactive hemodynamic management, including a semi-closed loop system for standardized management of patient fluid levels. Lastly, we are developing a connectivity platform that will offer clinicians additional clinical support, remote monitoring capability, analytics, and insights for their patients hemodynamic status. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in the United States and Israel. Our experienced research and development staff ar