Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. [Reserved] 21 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 37 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 89 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B. Other Information 90 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 90 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 91 Item 11. Executive Compensation 91 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 91 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 91 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 91 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 92 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 93 Signatures 94 Table of Contents PART I NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We intend the forward-looking statements contained in this report to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of such Acts. Some statements other than statements of historical fact in this report or referred to or incorporated by reference into this report are "forward-looking statements" for purposes of these sections. These statements include, among other things, the continued impact of COVID-19 on our business, any predictions, opinions, expectations, plans, strategies, objectives and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing relating to our current and future business and operations, including, but not limited to, financial matters, development activities, clinical trials and regulatory matters, manufacturing and supply operations, and product sales and demand. These statements can sometimes be identified by the use of the forward-looking words such as "may," "believe," "will," "expect," "project," "estimate," "should," "anticipate," "plan," "goal," "continue," "seek," "pro forma," "forecast," "intend," "guidance," "optimistic," "aspire," "confident," other forms of these words or similar words or expressions or the negative thereof. Statements of past performance, efforts, or results about which inferences or assumptions may be made can also be forward-looking statements and are not indicative of future performance or results; these statements can be identified by the use of words such as "preliminary," "initial," diligence," "industry-leading," "compliant," "indications," or "early feedback" or other forms of these words or similar words or expressions or the negative thereof. These forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause our results or future business, financial condition, results of operations or performance to differ materially from our historical results or experiences or those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: uncertainties regarding the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business and the economy generally, clinical trial or commercial results or new product approvals and therapy adoption; inability or failure to comply with applicable regulations; unpredictability of product launches; competitive dynamics; changes to reimbursement for the company's products; the company s success in developing new products and avoiding manufacturing and quality issues; the impact of currency exchange rates; the timing or results of research and development and clinical trials; unanticipated actions by the United States Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies; unexpected impacts or expenses resulting from litigation or internal or government investigations; and other risks detailed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A below, as such risks and uncertainties may be amended, supplemented or superseded from time to time by our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of the statement. If we do update or correct one or more of these statements, investors and others should not conclude that we will make additional updates or corrections. Unless otherwise indicated or otherwise required by the context, the terms "we," "our," "it," "its," "Company," "Edwards," and "Edwards Lifesciences" refer to Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and its subsidiaries. 1 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Overview Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is the global leader in patient-focused medical innovations for structural heart disease and critical care monitoring. Driven by a passion to help patients, we partner with the world s leading clinicians and researchers and invest in research and development to transform care for those impacted by structural heart disease or who require hemodynamic monitoring in the hospital setting. Edwards Lifesciences has been a leader in these areas for over six decades. Since our founder, Lowell Edwards, first dreamed of using engineering to address diseases of the human heart, we have steadily built a company on the premise of imagining, building, and realizing a better future for patients. A pioneer in the development of heart valve therapies, we are the world's leading manufacturer of heart valve systems and repair products used to replace or repair a patient's diseased or defective heart valve. Our innovative work in heart valves encompasses both surgical and transcatheter therapies for heart valve replacement and repair. In addition, our robust pipeline of future technologies is focused on the less invasive repair or replacement of the mitral and tricuspid valves of the heart, which are more complex and more challenging to treat than the aortic valve that is currently the focus of many of our commercially approved valve technologies. We are also a global leader in hemodynamic and noninvasive brain and tissue oxygenation monitoring systems used to measure a patient's cardiovascular function in the hospital setting. Cardiovascular disease is the number-one cause of death in the world and is the top disease in terms of health care spending in nearly every country. Cardiovascular disease is progressive in that it tends to worsen over time and often affects the structure of an individual's heart. Patients undergoing treatment for cardiovascular disease can be treated with a number of our medical technologies, which are designed to address individual patient needs with respect to disease process, comorbidities, and health status. For example, an individual with a heart valve disorder may have a faulty valve that is affecting the function of his or her heart or blood flow throughout his or her body. A clinician may elect to remove the valve and replace it with one of our bioprosthetic surgical tissue heart valves or surgically re-shape and repair the faulty valve with an Edwards Lifesciences annuloplasty ring. Alternatively, a clinician may implant an Edwards Lifesciences transcatheter valve or repair system via a catheter-based approach that does not require traditional open-heart surgery and can be done while the heart continues to beat. Patients in the hospital setting, including high-risk patients in the operating room or intensive care unit, are candidates for having their cardiac function or fluid levels monitored by our Critical Care products through multiple monitoring options, including noninvasive and minimally- invasive technologies. These technologies enable proactive clinical decisions while also providing the opportunity for improving diagnoses and developing individualized therapeutic management plans for patients. Corporate Background Edwards Lifesciences Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on September 10, 1999. Our principal executive offices are located at One Edwards Way, Irvine, California 92614. The telephone number at that address is (949) 250-2500. We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.edwards.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. Edwards Lifesciences' Product and Technology Offerings The following discussion summarizes the main areas of products and technologies we offer to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. Our products and technologies are categorized into four main areas: Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies, Surgical Structural Heart, and Critical Care. For more information on net sales from these four main areas, see "Net Sales by Product Group " in Part II, Item 7 " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ." Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement We are the global leader in transcatheter heart valve replacement technologies designed for the minimally-invasive replacement of aortic heart valves. The Edwards SAPIEN family of valves , including Edwards SAPIEN XT, the Edwards SAPIEN 3, and the Edwards SAPIEN 3 Ultra transcatheter heart valves, and their respective delivery systems, are used to treat heart valve disease using catheter-based approaches for patients who have severe symptomatic aortic stenosis and certain 2 Table of Contents patients with congenital heart disease. Delivered while the heart is beating, these valves can enable patients to experience a better quality of life sooner than patients receiving traditional surgical therapies. We began offering our transcatheter aortic heart valves to patients commercially in Europe in 2007, in the United States in 2011, and in Japan in 2013. Supported by extensive customer training and service, and a growing body of compelling clinical evidence, our SAPIEN family of transcatheter aortic heart valves are the most widely prescribed transcatheter heart valves in the world. Sales of our transcatheter aortic valve replacement products represented 65%, 65%, and 63% of our net sales in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies We continue to make significant investments in the development of transcatheter heart valve repair and replacement technologies designed to treat mitral and tricuspid valve diseases. While many of these technologies are in development and clinical phases, the PASCAL and Cardioband transcatheter valve repair systems are commercially available in Europe for mitral and tricuspid valve repair. The PASCAL system provides a differentiated, minimally-invasive therapy to address the needs of patients with mitral or tricuspid regurgitation through leaflet approximation, while the Cardioband system enables clinicians to reduce the valve's annulus to restore a patient s mitral or tricuspid valve to a more functional state and lower regurgitation. In addition to transcatheter repair, we believe transcatheter replacement is key to unlocking the full mitral and tricuspid opportunity, given the complex and diverse patient population. Our two-platform mitral replacement strategy positions us for leadership in the mid-to-long term. SAPIEN M3 is based on the proven SAPIEN valve, paired with a novel docking system. EVOQUE Eos is our next generation transcatheter replacement system, designed specifically for mitral patients. Both SAPIEN M3 and EVOQUE Eos are implanted with transfemoral delivery systems that are sub 30-French, which has benefits for femoral puncture and septal crossing, contributing to ease of use, and patient safety. For tricuspid valve replacement, our EVOQUE system is also sub 30-French, and available in three valve sizes to enable treatment in a wide range of patient anatomies. Surgical Structural Heart We are pioneering more resilient surgical therapies that help patients and can improve the quality of their lives. Our RESILIA tissue, now with five years of published clinical data showing 0% structural valve deterioration through five years 1 , is helping us redefine tissue durability standards. Our latest innovation, the INSPIRIS RESILIA aortic valve, is built on our PERIMOUNT platform and offers RESILIA tissue and VFit technology. INSPIRIS is the leading aortic surgical valve in the world. Sales of our surgical therapies in the United States also continue to gain traction with KONECT RESILIA , the first pre-assembled, aortic tissue valved conduit, for patients who require replacement of the valve, root, and ascending aorta. In 2021, we also received regulatory approval with reimbursement in Japan for our MITRIS RESILIA valve, a new mitral valve incorporating our newest tissue technology. In addition to our replacement valves, we are the worldwide leader in surgical heart valve repair therapies. Our recently launched HARPOON Beating Heart Mitral Valve Repair System can help transform care for many patients with degenerative mitral regurgitation. We believe the demand for surgical structural heart therapies is growing worldwide and that our innovation strategy will continue to extend our leadership and patient impact. Sales of our surgical tissue heart valve products represented 15%, 16%, and 17% of our net sales in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Critical Care We are a world leader in advanced hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's heart function and fluid status in surgical and intensive care settings. Hemodynamic monitoring plays an important role in enhancing surgical recovery. Edwards complete hemodynamic portfolio helps clinicians make proactive clinical decisions that can improve patient outcomes. The portfolio includes the minimally invasive FloTrac and Acumen IQ sensors, the noninvasive ClearSight and Acumen IQ cuffs, and the ForeSight noninvasive tissue oximetry sensor. We also support clinical needs with our well-established Swan-Ganz line of pulmonary artery catheters and arterial pressure monitoring products. Compatible with our portfolio of sensors and catheters, the HemoSphere monitoring platform displays valuable physiological information in an easy to understand and actionable manner. Our first predictive algorithm, Acumen Hypotension Prediction Index software, alerts clinicians in advance of a patient developing dangerously low blood pressure and amplifies the clinical need for our Acumen IQ and HemoSphere monitoring solutions. 1 Bavaria, et al. Five-year Outcomes of the COMMENCE trial investigating Aortic Valve Replacement with a Bioprosthetic Valve with a Novel Tissue. The Society of Thoracic Surgeons 2021 Annual Meeting; Bartus, et al. Final 5-year outcomes following aortic valve replacement with RESILIA tissue bio prosthesis. European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, 2020. 3 Table of Contents Sales of our hemodynamic products represented 8%, 9%, and 10% of our net sales in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Competition The medical technology industry is highly competitive. We compete with many companies, including divisions of companies much larger than us and smaller companies that compete in specific product lines or certain geographies. Furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the areas in which we compete. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug therapies. We must continue to develop and commercialize new products and technologies to remain competitive in the cardiovascular medical technology industry. We believe that we are competitive primarily because we deliver superior clinical outcomes that are supported by extensive data, and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product performance, and reliability; these superior clinical outcomes are in part due to the level of customer and clinical support we provide. The cardiovascular segment of the medical technology industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform, industry and customer consolidation, and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly important for medical technology manufacturers. We believe that we are a leading global competitor in each of our product lines. In Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, our primary competitors include Medtronic PLC and Abbott Laboratories ("Abbott"). In Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies, our primary competitor is Abbott, and there are a considerable number of large and small companies with development efforts in these fields. In Surgical Structural Heart, our primary competitors include Medtronic PLC, Abbott, and Artivion, Inc (formerly CryoLife). In Critical Care, we compete primarily with a variety of companies in specific product lines including ICU Medical, Inc., PULSION Medical Systems SE, a subsidiary of Getinge AB, Cheetah Medical, Inc., a subsidiary of Baxter International, and LiDCO Group PLC, a subsidiary of Masimo Corporation. Sales and Marketing Our portfolio includes some of the most recognizable cardiovascular device product brands in treating structural heart disease today. We have a number of product lines that require sales and marketing strategies tailored to deliver high-quality, cost-effective products and technologies to customers worldwide. Because of the diverse global needs of the population that we serve, our distribution system consists of several direct sales forces as well as independent distributors. We are not dependent on any single customer and no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in 2021. To ensure optimal outcomes for patients, we conduct educational symposia and best practices training for our physician, hospital executive, service line leadership, nursing, and clinical-based customers. We rely extensively on our sales and field clinical specialist personnel who work closely with our customers in hospitals. Field clinical specialists routinely attend procedures where Edwards' products are being used in order to provide guidance on the use of our devices, thereby enabling physicians and staff to reach expert proficiency and deliver positive patient outcomes. Our customers include physicians, nurses, and other clinical personnel, but can also include decision makers such as service line leaders, material managers, biomedical staff, hospital administrators and executives, purchasing managers, and ministries of health. Also, for certain of our product lines and where appropriate, our corporate sales team actively pursues approval of Edwards Lifesciences as a qualified supplier for hospital group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") that negotiate contracts with suppliers of medical products. Additionally, we have contracts with a number of United States and European national and regional buying groups, including healthcare systems and Integrated Delivery Networks. Where we choose to market our products is also influenced by the existence of, or potential for, adequate reimbursement to hospitals and other providers by national healthcare systems. United States. In the United States, we sell substantially all of our products through our direct sales forces. In 2021, 57% of our net sales were derived from sales to customers in the United States. Outside of the United States. In 2021, 43% of our net sales were derived outside of the United States through our direct sales forces and independent distributors. Of the total sales outside of the United States, 53% were in Europe, 23% were in Japan, and 24% were in Rest of World. We sell our products in approximately 100 countries, and our major international markets include Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, and the United Kingdom. A majority of the sales and marketing approach outside of the United States is direct sales, although it varies depending on each country's size and state of development. 4 Table of Contents Raw Materials and Manufacturing We operate manufacturing facilities in various geographies around the world. We manufacture our Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid technologies, and Structural Surgical Heart products primarily in the United States (California and Utah), Singapore, Costa Rica, and Ireland. We manufacture our Critical Care products primarily in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. We use a diverse and broad range of raw and organic materials in the design, development, and manufacture of our products. We manufacture our non-implantable products from fabricated raw materials including resins, chemicals, electronics, and metals. Most of our replacement heart valves are manufactured from natural tissues harvested from animal tissue, as well as fabricated materials. We purchase certain materials and components used in manufacturing our products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase certain supplies from single sources for reasons of sole source availability or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We work with our suppliers to mitigate risk and seek continuity of supply while maintaining quality and reliability. Alternative supplier options are generally considered, identified, and approved for materials deemed critical to our products, although we do not typically pursue immediate regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships and the time and expense associated with the regulatory validation process. We comply with all current global guidelines regarding risks for products incorporating animal tissue intended to be implanted in humans. We follow rigorous sourcing and manufacturing procedures intended to safeguard humans from potential risks associated with diseases such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ("BSE"). We obtain bovine tissue used in our pericardial tissue valve products only from sources within the United States and Australia, where strong control measures and surveillance programs exist. In addition, bovine tissue used in our pericardial tissue valve products is from tissue types considered by global health and regulatory organizations to have shown no risk of infectibility. Our manufacturing and sterilization processes are designed to render tissue biologically safe from all known infectious agents and viruses. Quality Assurance We are committed to providing to our patients quality products and have implemented modern quality systems and concepts throughout the organization. The quality system starts with the initial design concept, risk management, and product specification, and continues through the design of the product, packaging and labeling, and the manufacturing, sales, support, and servicing of the product. The quality system is intended to design quality into the products and utilizes continuous improvement concepts, including Lean/Six Sigma principles, throughout the product lifecycle. Our operations are frequently inspected by the many regulators that oversee medical device manufacturing, including the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), European Notified Bodies, and other regulatory entities. The medical technology industry is highly regulated and our facilities and operations are designed to comply with all applicable quality systems standards, including the International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 13485. These standards require, among other items, quality system controls that are applied to product design, component material, suppliers, and manufacturing operations. These regulatory approvals and ISO certifications can be obtained only after a successful audit of a company's quality system has been conducted by regulatory or independent outside auditors. Periodic reexamination by an independent outside auditor is required to maintain these certifications. Environmental, Health, and Safety We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace and complying with all relevant regulations and medical technology industry standards. Through our corporate and site level Environmental, Health, and Safety functions, we establish and monitor programs to reduce pollution, prevent injuries, and maintain compliance with applicable regulations. In order to measure performance, we monitor and report on a number of metrics, including regulated and non-regulated waste disposal, energy usage, water consumption, air toxic emissions, and injuries from our production activities. Each of our manufacturing sites is evaluated regularly with respect to a broad range of Environmental, Health, and Safety criteria. 5 Table of Contents Research and Development In 2021, we made significant investments in research and development as we worked to develop therapies that we believe have the potential to change the practice of medicine. Research and development spending increased 19% year over year, representing 17% of 2021 sales. This increase was primarily the result of significant investments in our transcatheter structural heart programs, including an increase in clinical research for our mitral and tricuspid therapies. We are engaged in ongoing research and development to deliver clinically advanced new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our current leading products, and to expand the applications of our products as appropriate. We focus on opportunities within specific areas of structural heart disease and critical care monitoring. A considerable portion of our research and development investment includes clinical trials and the collection of evidence that provide data for use in regulatory submissions, and required post-market approval studies involving applications of our products. Our investment in clinical studies also includes outcomes and cost-effectiveness data for payers, clinicians, and healthcare systems. In Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement, we are developing new products to further improve and streamline transcatheter aortic heart valve replacement procedures. In Transcatheter Mitral and Tricuspid Therapies, we are making significant investments in innovation and clinical evidence to develop technologies designed to treat mitral and tricuspid valve diseases. In addition to our internally developed programs, we have made investments in several companies that are independently developing minimally-invasive technologies to treat structural heart diseases. Our Surgical Structural Heart development programs include innovative platforms for patients who are best treated surgically, specifically active patients and patients with more complex combined procedures. In our Critical Care product line, we are pursuing the development of a variety of decision support solutions for our clinicians. This includes next-generation noninvasive and minimally-invasive hemodynamic monitoring systems, and a next-generation monitor platform. We are also developing a decision support software suite with advanced algorithms for proactive hemodynamic management, including a semi-closed loop system for standardized management of patient fluid levels. Lastly, we are developing a connectivity platform that will offer clinicians additional clinical support, remote monitoring capability, analytics, and insights for their patients hemodynamic status. Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in the United States and Israel. Our experienced research and development staff are focused on product design and development, quality, clinical research, and regulatory compliance. To pursue primary research efforts, we have developed alliances with several leading research institutions and universities, and also work with leading clinicians around the world in conducting scientific studies on our existing and developing products. Proprietary Technology Patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights are important to the success of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing innovations, licensing opportunities, and non-disclosure agreements to develop and maintain our competitive position. We own or have rights to a substantial number of patents and have patent applications pending both in the United States and in foreign countries. We continue to innovate and file new patent applications to protect our new products and technologies. Additionally, we are a party to license agreements with various third parties pursuant to which we have obtained, for varying terms, the exclusive or non-exclusive rights to certain patents held by such third parties in consideration for cross-licensing rights and/or royalty payments. We have also licensed certain patent rights to others. We undertake reasonable measures to protect our patent rights, including monitoring the products of our competitors for possible infringement of our patents. Litigation has been necessary to enforce certain patent rights held b