Item 1. Business 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 48 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Liquidity and Capital Resources 52 Results of Operations, for the Period from February 10, 2021 through December 31, 2021, the Period from January 1, 2021 through February 9, 2021 , and the Year Ended December 31, 2020 58 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70 Item 8 . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 71 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 146 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 146 Item 9B. Other Information 147 Item 9 C . D isclosure Regarding Foreign Juris dictions that Prevent Inspections 147 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 147 Item 11. Executive Compensation 147 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 147 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 147 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 147 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 148 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 152 Signatures 153 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Definitions Unless the context otherwise indicates, references to us, we, our, ours, Chesapeake, the Company and Registrant refer to Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. All monetary values, other than per unit and per share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified. In addition, the following are other abbreviations and definitions of certain terms used within this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Adjusted Free Cash Flow (a non-GAAP measure) means net cash provided by operating activities (GAAP) less cash capital expenditures, adjusted to exclude certain items management believes affect the comparability of operating results. ASC means Accounting Standards Codification. Backstop Commitment Agreement means that certain Backstop Commitment Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2020, by and between Chesapeake and the Backstop Parties, as may be further amended, modified, or supplemented from time to time, in accordance with its terms. Backstop Parties means the members of the FLLO Ad Hoc Group that are signatories to the Backstop Commitment Agreement and Franklin Advisers, Inc., as investment manager on behalf of certain funds and accounts. Bankruptcy Code means Title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C. 101 1532, as amended. Bankruptcy Court means the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas. Bbl or Bbls means barrel or barrels. Bcf means billion cubic feet. Boe means barrel of oil equivalent. Natural gas proved reserves and production are converted to Boe, at the pressure and temperature base standard of each respective state in which the natural gas is produced, at the rate of six Mcf of gas per Bbl of oil, based upon the approximate relative energy content of natural gas and oil. NGL proved reserves and production are converted to Boe on a one-to-one basis with oil. Chapter 11 Cases means, when used with reference to a particular Debtor, the case pending for that Debtor under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court, and when used with reference to all the Debtors, the procedurally consolidated Chapter 11 cases pending for the Debtors in the Bankruptcy Court. Chief means Chief E D Holdings, LP. Chief Acquisition means Chesapeake s planned acquisition of Chief E D Holdings, LP and associated non-operated interests held by affiliates of Tug Hill, Inc., which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2022. Class A Warrants means warrants to purchase 10 percent of the New Common Stock (after giving effect to the Rights Offering, but subject to dilution by the Management Incentive Plan, the Class B Warrants, and the Class C Warrants), at an initial exercise price per share of $27.63. The Class A Warrants are exercisable from the Effective Date until February 9, 2026. Class B Warrants means warrants to purchase 10 percent of the New Common Stock (after giving effect to the Rights Offering, but subject to dilution by the Management Incentive Plan and the Class C Warrants), at an initial exercise price per share of $32.13. The Class B Warrants are exercisable from the Effective Date until February 9, 2026. Class C Warrants means warrants to purchase 10 percent of the New Common Stock (after giving effect to the Rights Offering, but subject to dilution by the Management Incentive Plan), at an initial exercise price per share of $36.18. The Class C Warrants are exercisable from the Effective Date until February 9, 2026. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS Completion means the process of treating a drilled well followed by the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil, natural gas or natural gas liquids, or in the case of a dry well, the reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned. Confirmation Order means the order confirming the Fifth Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its Debtor Affiliates, Docket No. 2915, entered by the Bankruptcy Court on January 16, 2021. Debtors means the Company, together with all of its direct and indirect subsidiaries that have filed the Chapter 11 Cases. Developed Acreage means acres which are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production. DIP Facility means that certain debtor-in-possession financing facility documented pursuant to the DIP Documents and DIP Order. Dry Well means a well found to be incapable of producing either oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or natural gas well. Effective Date means February 9, 2021. Exit Credit Facility means the reserve-based revolving credit facility available upon emergence from bankruptcy. Exploratory Well means a well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or natural gas in another reservoir. FLLO Term Loan Facility means the facility outstanding under the FLLO Term Loan Facility Credit Agreement. FLLO Term Loan Facility Credit Agreement means that certain Term Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2019 ((i) as supplemented by that certain Class A Term Loan Supplement, dated as of December 19, 2019 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time), by and among Chesapeake, as borrower, the Debtor guarantors party thereto, GLAS USA LLC, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, and (ii) as further amended, restated, or otherwise modified from time to time), by and among Chesapeake, the Debtor guarantors party thereto, GLAS USA LLC, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto. Formation means a succession of sedimentary beds that were deposited under the same general geologic conditions. Free Cash Flow (a non-GAAP measure) means net cash provided by operating activities (GAAP) less cash capital expenditures. GAAP means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. General Unsecured Claim means any Claim against any Debtor that is not otherwise paid in full during the Chapter 11 Cases pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court and is not an Administrative Claim, a Priority Tax Claim, an Other Priority Claim, an Other Secured Claim, a Revolving Credit Facility Claim, a FLLO Term Loan Facility Claim, a Second Lien Notes Claim, an Unsecured Notes Claim, an Intercompany Claim, or a Section 510(b) Claim. Gross Acres or Gross Wells means the total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. MBbls means thousand barrels. MMBbls means million barrels. MBoe means thousand Boe. MMBoe means million Boe. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Mcf means thousand cubic feet. MMcf means million cubic feet. Net Acres or Net Wells means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells. New Common Stock means the single class of common stock issued by Reorganized Chesapeake on the Effective Date. NGL means natural gas liquids. NYMEX means New York Mercantile Exchange. OPEC means Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Petition Date means June 28, 2020, the date on which the Debtors commenced the Chapter 11 Cases. Plan means the Fifth Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its Debtor Affiliates, attached as Exhibit A to the Confirmation Order. Play means a portion of the exploration and production cycle following the identification by geologists and geophysicists of areas with potential oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. Present Value of Estimated Future Net Revenues or PV-10 (non-GAAP) means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices calculated as the average oil and natural gas price during the preceding 12-month period prior to the end of the current reporting period, (determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period) and costs in effect at the determination date (unless such costs are subject to change pursuant to contractual provisions), without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Price Differential means the difference in the price of oil, natural gas or NGL received at the sales point and the NYMEX price. Productive Well means a well that is not a dry well. Productive wells include producing wells and wells that are mechanically capable of production. Proved Developed Reserves means reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. Proved Properties means properties with proved reserves. Proved Reserves As used in this report, proved reserves has the meaning given to such term in Rule 4-10(a)(22) of Regulation S-X, which states in part proved oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs) means proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Put Option Premium means a nonrefundable aggregate fee of $60 million, which represents 10 percent of the Rights Offering Amount, payable to the Backstop Parties in accordance with, and subject to the terms of the 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS Backstop Commitment Agreement based on their respective backstop commitment percentages at the time such payment is made. Reservoir means a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or natural gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs. Rights Offering means the New Common Stock rights offering for the Rights Offering Amount consummated by the Debtors on the Effective Date. SEC means United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Second Lien Notes means the 11.50% senior notes due 2025 issued by Chesapeake pursuant to the Second Lien Notes Indenture. Second Lien Notes Claim means any Claim on account of the Second Lien Notes. Standardized Measure means the discounted future net cash flows relating to proved reserves based on the means of the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices calculated as the average oil and natural gas price during the preceding 12-month period prior to the end of the current reporting period (determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period). The standardized measure differs from the PV-10 measure only because the former includes the effects of estimated future income tax expenses. Tranche A Loans means the fully revolving loans made under and on the terms set forth under the Exit Credit Facility which will be partially funded on the Effective Date, will have a scheduled maturity of 3 years from the Effective Date, and shall at all times be repaid prior to the repayment of the Tranche B Loans. Tranche B Loans means term loans made under and on the terms set forth under the Exit Credit Facility which will be fully funded on the Effective Date, will have a scheduled maturity of 4 years from the Effective Date, will be repaid or prepaid only after there are no Tranche A Loans outstanding, and once so prepaid or repaid, may not be reborrowed. Undeveloped Acreage means acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves. Unproved Properties means properties with no proved reserves. Vine Acquisition means Chesapeake s acquisition of Vine Energy Inc. which closed on November 1, 2021. Vine means Vine Energy Inc. Volumetric Production Payment (VPP) means a limited-term overriding royalty interest in oil and natural gas reserves that: (i) entitles the purchaser to receive scheduled production volumes over a period of time from specific lease interests; (ii) is free and clear of all associated future production costs and capital expenditures; (iii) is nonrecourse to the seller (i.e., the purchaser's only recourse is to the reserves acquired); (iv) transfers title of the reserves to the purchaser; and (v) allows the seller to retain the remaining reserves, if any, after the scheduled production volumes have been delivered. Warrants means collectively, the Class A Warrants, Class B Warrants and Class C Warrants. Working Interest means the operating interest which gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production. WTI means West Texas Intermediate. /Bbl means per barrel. /Boe means per Boe. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS /Mcf means per Mcf. 2019 Predecessor Period means the year ended December 31, 2019. 2020 Predecessor Period means the year ended December 31, 2020. 2021 Predecessor Period means the period of January 1, 2021 through February 9, 2021. 2021 Successor Period means the period of February 10, 2021 through December 31, 2021. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements include our current expectations or forecasts of future events, including matters relating to the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact thereof on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the potential effects of the Plan restructuring on our operations, management, and employees, actions by, or disputes among or between, members of OPEC+ and other foreign oil-exporting countries, market factors, market prices, our ability to meet debt service requirements, our ability to continue to pay cash dividends, the amount and timing of any cash dividends, our ESG initiatives, and the other items discussed in the Introduction to Item 7 of Part II of this report. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business, financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," could, may, "anticipate," "intend," "plan," ability, "believe," "seek," "see," "will," "would," estimate, forecast, "target," guidance, outlook, opportunity or strategy. Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. No assurance can be given that such forward-looking statements will be correct or achieved or that the assumptions are accurate or will not change over time. Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the ability to execute on our business strategy following emergence from bankruptcy; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effect on our business, financial condition, employees, contractors, vendors and the global demand for oil and natural gas and U.S. and world financial markets; risks related to the Vine Acquisition, including our ability to successfully integrate the business of Vine into the Company and achieve the expected synergies from the Vine Acquisition within the expected timeframe; risks related to the Chief Acquisition, including a delay or failure to complete the Chief Acquisition caused by a failure to receive required regulatory approvals or satisfy or waive, as applicable, other closing conditions to the Chief Acquisition, and if the Chief Acquisition is completed, our ability to successfully integrate the business of Chief into the Company and achieve the expected synergies from the Chief Acquisition within the expected timeframe; our ability to comply with the covenants under our Exit Credit Facility and other indebtedness; our ability to realize our anticipated cash cost reductions; the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices, which are affected by general economic and business conditions, as well as increased demand for (and availability of) alternative fuels and electric vehicles; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and projecting future rates of production and the amount and timing of development expenditures; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; drilling and operating risks and resulting liabilities; our ability to generate profits or achieve targeted results in drilling and well operations; the limitations our level of indebtedness may have on our financial flexibility; our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms; the availability of cash flows from operations and other funds to finance reserve replacement costs or satisfy our debt obligations; 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS adverse developments or losses from pending or future litigation and regulatory proceedings, including royalty claims; legislative, regulatory and environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) initiatives, including as a result of the change in the U.S. presidential administration, addressing environmental concerns, including initiatives addressing the impact of global climate change or further regulating hydraulic fracturing, methane emissions, flaring or water disposal; terrorist activities and/or cyber-attacks adversely impacting our operations; effects of purchase price adjustments and indemnity obligations; and other factors that are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K or this report ). We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this report, which speak only as of the filing date, and we undertake no obligation to update this information. We urge you to carefully review and consider the disclosures in this report and our other filings with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I ITEM 1. Business Unless the context otherwise requires, references to Chesapeake, the Company, us, we and our in this report are to Chesapeake Energy Corporation together with its subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices are located at 6100 North Western Avenue, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73118, and our main telephone number at that location is (405) 848-8000. Our Business We are an independent exploration and production company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of properties to produce oil, natural gas and NGL from underground reservoirs. We own a large and geographically diverse portfolio of onshore U.S. unconventional natural gas and liquids assets, including interests in approximately 8,200 gross oil and natural gas wells. On June 28, 2020, we and certain of our subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. The Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Plan in a bench ruling on January 13, 2021 and entered the Confirmation Order on January 16, 2021. The Debtors emerged from bankruptcy on February 9, 2021. Upon emergence, all existing equity was canceled and New Common Stock was issued to the previous holders of our FLLO Term Loan Facility, Second Lien Notes, senior unsecured notes and certain general unsecured creditors whose claims were impaired as a result of our bankruptcy, as well as to other parties as set forth in the Plan, including to other parties participating in a $600 million rights offering. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh start accounting, which resulted in us becoming a new entity for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements on or after February 9, 2021 are not comparable to the consolidated financial statements prior to that date. To facilitate our discussion in this report, we refer to the post-emergence reorganized company as the Successor and the pre-emergence company as the Predecessor. See Note 2 and Note 3 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further discussion of our bankruptcy, the resulting reorganization and fresh start accounting. On November 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of Vine, an energy company focused on the development of natural gas properties in the over-pressured stacked Haynesville and Mid-Bossier shale plays in Northwest Louisiana. The Vine Acquisition strengthens Chesapeake s competitive position, meaningfully increasing our Free Cash Flow outlook and deepening our inventory of premium natural gas locations, while preserving the strength of our balance sheet. On January 24, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Chief and associated non-operated interests held by affiliates of Tug Hill, Inc. ( Tug Hill ), for $2.0 billion in cash and approximately 9.44 million common shares. Chief and Tug Hill hold producing assets and an inventory of premium drilling locations in the Marcellus Shale in Northeast Pennsylvania. The cash portion of the Chief Acquisition will be financed with cash on hand and the use of our Exit Credit Facility. The Chief Acquisition, which is subject to customary closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals, is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2022. On January 24, 2022, we entered into an agreement to sell our Powder River Basin assets in Wyoming to Continental Resources, Inc. for approximately $450 million in cash. The transaction, which is subject to certain customary closing conditions, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2022. The completion of these transactions will clarify and strengthen our asset portfolio, concentrating on three operating areas and advancing our highest-return assets in the Marcellus and Haynesville gas basins. Information About Us We make available, free of charge on our website at chk.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. From time to time, we also post announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations on our website in addition to copies of all recent news releases. Documents and information on our website are not incorporated by reference herein. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Chesapeake, that file electronically with the SEC. Business Strategy Consistent returns, sustainable future. Our strategy is to create shareholder value by generating sustainable Free Cash Flow from our oil and natural gas development and production activities. We continue to focus on improving margins through operating efficiencies and financial discipline and improving our Environmental, Social, and Governance ( ESG ) performance. To accomplish these goals, we intend to allocate our human resources and capital expenditures to projects we believe offer the highest cash return on capital invested, to deploy leading drilling and completion technology throughout our portfolio and to take advantage of acquisition and divestiture opportunities to strengthen our portfolio. We also intend to continue to dedicate capital to projects that reduce the environmental impact of our oil and natural gas producing activities. We continue to seek opportunities to reduce cash costs (production, gathering, processing and transportation and general and administrative) per barrel of oil equivalent production through operational efficiencies, including but not limited to improving our production volumes from existing wells. We believe that we have emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy as a fundamentally stronger company, built to generate sustainable Free Cash Flow with a strengthened balance sheet, geographically diverse asset base and continuously improving ESG performance. Maintain low leverage and strong liquidity. Subsequent to our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy, we believe that maintaining low net leverage is integral to our business strategy and will allow us to maintain lower fixed costs, improve our margins and maintain the flexibility of our capital program. Returns-focused capital reinvestment strategy. Our business focus will be on optimizing the development of our large, geographically diverse resource base with a prioritization of generating high cash returns on capital invested. We expect our maintenance capital program to yield in excess of annual production of 700 mboe per day and generate significant Free Cash Flow at today s prevailing commodity market prices. Low-cost operator with expected top-quartile cash costs . We expect to continue to focus on our cost optimization initiatives. Continue efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and operate in an environmentally responsible manner with a goal of net zero direct GHG emissions by 2035 . We are committed to operating our business responsibly and protecting the environments in which we operate. We eliminated routine flaring on all new wells completed in 2021, and plan to accomplish the same on all wells enterprise-wide by 2025. We reduced our methane loss rate to 0.08% and our GHG intensity to 5.0 as of December 31, 2021. Manage commodity price exposure and ensure stability through prudent hedging strategy . We employ a prudent hedging strategy, which is aligned with our capital expenditure program and is designed to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility, ensure the stability of our cash flows and mitigate our risks to realizing attractive cash returns on capital invested. As of February 21, 2022, we have 11 mmbbls and 899 bcf of expected 2022 production, representing 58% and 68% of 2022 forecasted oil and natural gas production, hedged at prices of $44.30/bbl and $2.69/mcf, respectively, for swaps and $3.21/mcf to $4.26/mcf, respectively, for collars. Additionally, as of February 21, 2022, we have hedged 6 mmbbl and 467 bcf of expected 2023 oil and natural gas production at prices of $47.17/bbl and $2.69/mcf, respectively, for swaps and $65.00/bbl to $79.09/bbl and $3.03/mcf to $4.02/mcf, respectively, for collars. Metrics include hedges that are contingent upon the closing of the Chief Acquisition. Operating Areas We focus our acquisition, exploration, development and production efforts in the geographic operating areas described below. Marcellus - Northern Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania. Haynesville - Haynesville/Bossier Shales in Northwestern Louisiana. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Eagle Ford - Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas. Powder River Basin - Stacked pay in Wyoming (purchase and sale agreement to divest executed on January 24, 2022, and which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2022). Well Data As of December 31, 2021, we held an interest in approximately 8,200 gross