Item 1. Business 12 Item 1A. Risk Factors 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 51 Item 1 C . C ybersecurity 51 Item 2. Properties 52 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 53 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 53 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 54 Item 6. Reserved 55 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 56 Liquidity and Capital Resources 59 Results of Operations 64 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 79 Item 8 . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 80 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 146 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 146 Item 9B. Other Information 147 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 147 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 147 Item 11. Executive Compensation 147 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 147 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 147 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 147 PART IV Item 15. Exhibi ts and Financial Statement Schedules 148 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 152 Signatures 153 3 Definitions Unless the context otherwise indicates, references to us, we, our, ours, Chesapeake, the Company and Registrant refer to Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. All monetary values, other than per unit and per share amounts, are stated in millions of U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified. Certain reserves and production information was previously disclosed in a per barrel of oil equivalent, since the majority of our production profile consists of natural gas, we have converted this information, including prior periods, from a per barrel of oil equivalent, to a per one thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, referred to, on such a converted basis, as per Mcfe. In addition, the following are other abbreviations and definitions of certain terms used within this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Form 10-K or this report ): Adjusted Free Cash Flow (a non-GAAP measure) means net cash provided by operating activities (GAAP) less cash capital expenditures and contributions to investments, adjusted to exclude certain items management believes affect the comparability of operating results. ASC means Accounting Standards Codification. Backstop Commitment Agreement means that certain Backstop Commitment Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2020, by and between Chesapeake and the Backstop Parties, as may be further amended, modified, or supplemented from time to time, in accordance with its terms. Backstop Parties means the members of the FLLO Ad Hoc Group that are signatories to the Backstop Commitment Agreement and Franklin Advisers, Inc., as investment manager on behalf of certain funds and accounts. Bankruptcy Code means Title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C. 101 1532, as amended. Bankruptcy Court means the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas. Bbl or Bbls means barrel or barrels. Bcf means billion cubic feet. Bcfe means billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. BLM means the Bureau of Land Management. Chapter 11 Cases means, when used with reference to a particular Debtor, the case pending for that Debtor under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court, and when used with reference to all the Debtors, the procedurally consolidated Chapter 11 cases pending for the Debtors in the Bankruptcy Court. Chief means Chief E D Holdings, LP. Class A Warrants means warrants to purchase 10 percent of the New Common Stock (after giving effect to the Rights Offering, but subject to dilution by the Management Incentive Plan, the Class B Warrants, and the Class C Warrants), at an initial exercise price per share of $27.63. The Class A Warrants are exercisable from the Effective Date until February 9, 2026. Class B Warrants means warrants to purchase 10 percent of the New Common Stock (after giving effect to the Rights Offering, but subject to dilution by the Management Incentive Plan and the Class C Warrants), at an initial exercise price per share of $32.13. The Class B Warrants are exercisable from the Effective Date until February 9, 2026. Class C Warrants means warrants to purchase 10 percent of the New Common Stock (after giving effect to the Rights Offering, but subject to dilution by the Management Incentive Plan), at an initial exercise price per share of $36.18. The Class C Warrants are exercisable from the Effective Date until February 9, 2026. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS Completion means the process of treating a drilled well followed by the installation of permanent equipment for the production of natural gas, oil or natural gas liquids, or in the case of a dry well, the reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned. Confirmation Order means the order confirming the Fifth Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its Debtor Affiliates, Docket No. 2915, entered by the Bankruptcy Court on January 16, 2021. DD A means depreciation, depletion and amortization. Debtors means the Company, together with all of its direct and indirect subsidiaries that have filed the Chapter 11 Cases. DEI means diversity, equity and inclusion. Developed Acreage means acres which are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production. DIP Facility means that certain debtor-in-possession financing facility documented pursuant to the DIP Documents and DIP Order. Dry Well means a well found to be incapable of producing either natural gas or oil in sufficient quantities to justify completion as a natural gas or oil well. Effective Date means February 9, 2021. ESG means environmental, social and governance. Exit Credit Facility means the reserve-based credit facility available upon emergence from bankruptcy. In December 2022, we terminated the Exit Credit Facility. Exploratory Well means a well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of natural gas or oil in another reservoir. FLLO Term Loan Facility means the facility outstanding under the FLLO Term Loan Facility Credit Agreement. FLLO Term Loan Facility Credit Agreement means that certain Term Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2019 ((i) as supplemented by that certain Class A Term Loan Supplement, dated as of December 19, 2019 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time), by and among Chesapeake, as borrower, the Debtor guarantors party thereto, GLAS USA LLC, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, and (ii) as further amended, restated, or otherwise modified from time to time), by and among Chesapeake, the Debtor guarantors party thereto, GLAS USA LLC, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto. Formation means a succession of sedimentary beds that were deposited under the same general geologic conditions. Free Cash Flow (a non-GAAP measure) means net cash provided by operating activities (GAAP) less cash capital expenditures. G A means general and administrative expenses. GAAP means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. General Unsecured Claim means any Claim against any Debtor that is not otherwise paid in full during the Chapter 11 Cases pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court and is not an Administrative Claim, a Priority Tax Claim, an Other Priority Claim, an Other Secured Claim, a Revolving Credit Facility Claim, a FLLO Term Loan Facility Claim, a Second Lien Notes Claim, an Unsecured Notes Claim, an Intercompany Claim, or a Section 510(b) Claim. Gross Acres or Gross Wells means the total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS LTIP means the Chesapeake Energy Corporation 2021 Long Term Incentive Plan. LNG means liquefied natural gas. Marcellus Acquisition means Chesapeake s acquisition of Chief and associated non-operated interests held by affiliates of Radler and Tug Hill, which closed on March 9, 2022, with an effective date of January 1, 2022. MBbls means thousand barrels. MMBbls means million barrels. Mcf means thousand cubic feet. Mcfe means one thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent, with one barrel of oil or NGL converted to an equivalent volume of natural gas using the ratio of one barrel of oil or NGL to six Mcf of natural gas. MMcf means million cubic feet. MMcfe means million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. Net Acres or Net Wells means the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells. New Common Stock means the single class of common stock issued by Reorganized Chesapeake on the Effective Date. New Credit Facility means the reserve-based credit facility entered into on December 9, 2022. NGL means natural gas liquids. NYMEX means New York Mercantile Exchange. OPEC+ means Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Plus. Petition Date means June 28, 2020, the date on which the Debtors commenced the Chapter 11 Cases. Plan means the Fifth Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its Debtor Affiliates, attached as Exhibit A to the Confirmation Order. Play means a portion of the exploration and production cycle following the identification by geologists and geophysicists of areas with potential natural gas, oil and NGL reserves. Present Value of Estimated Future Net Revenues or PV-10 (non-GAAP) means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices calculated as the average natural gas and oil price during the preceding 12-month period prior to the end of the current reporting period, (determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period) and costs in effect at the determination date (unless such costs are subject to change pursuant to contractual provisions), without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Price Differential means the difference in the price of natural gas, oil or NGL received at the sales point and the NYMEX price. Productive Well means a well that is not a dry well. Productive wells include producing wells and wells that are mechanically capable of production. Proved Developed Reserves means reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. Proved Properties means properties with proved reserves. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS Proved Reserves has the meaning given to such term in Rule 4-10(a)(22) of Regulation S-X, which states in part proved natural gas and oil reserves are those quantities of natural gas and oil, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs) means proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Put Option Premium means a nonrefundable aggregate fee of $60 million, which represents 10 percent of the Rights Offering Amount, payable to the Backstop Parties in accordance with, and subject to the terms of the Backstop Commitment Agreement based on their respective backstop commitment percentages at the time such payment is made. Radler means Radler 2000 Limited Partnership. Reservoir means a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible natural gas and/or oil that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs. Rights Offering means the New Common Stock rights offering for the Rights Offering Amount consummated by the Debtors on the Effective Date. SEC means United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Second Lien Notes means the 11.50% senior notes due 2025 issued by Chesapeake pursuant to the Second Lien Notes Indenture. Second Lien Notes Claim means any Claim on account of the Second Lien Notes. SOFR means a rate equal to the secured overnight financing rate as administered by the SOFR Administrator, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or a successor administrator of the secured overnight financing rate). Southwestern means Southwestern Energy Company. Southwestern Merger means Chesapeake s planned merger with Southwestern, which, subject to satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals, is targeted to close in the second quarter of 2024. Standardized Measure means the discounted future net cash flows relating to proved reserves based on the means of the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices calculated as the average natural gas and oil price during the preceding 12-month period prior to the end of the current reporting period (determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period). The standardized measure differs from the PV-10 measure only because the former includes the effects of estimated future income tax expenses. Tcf means trillion cubic feet. Tcfe means trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. Tranche A Loans means the fully revolving loans made under and on the terms set forth under the Exit Credit Facility which were partially funded on the Effective Date. The Tranche A Loans were repaid in full in connection with our entry into the New Credit Facility. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS Tranche B Loans means term loans made under and on the terms set forth under the Exit Credit Facility which were fully funded on the Effective Date. The Tranche B Loans were repaid in full in connection with our entry into the New Credit Facility. Tug Hill means Tug Hill, Inc. Undeveloped Acreage means acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of natural gas and oil regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves. Unproved Properties means properties with no proved reserves. Vine means Vine Energy Inc. Vine Acquisition means Chesapeake s acquisition of Vine, which closed on November 1, 2021. Warrants means, collectively, the Class A Warrants, Class B Warrants and Class C Warrants. Working Interest means the operating interest which gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production. WTI means West Texas Intermediate. /Bbl means per barrel. /Mcf means per Mcf. /Mcfe means per Mcfe. 2021 Predecessor Period means the period of January 1, 2021 through February 9, 2021. 2021 Successor Period means the period of February 10, 2021 through December 31, 2021. 2022 Successor Period means the year ended December 31, 2022. 2023 Successor Period means the year ended December 31, 2023. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements include our current expectations or forecasts of future events, including matters relating to the pending Southwestern Merger, armed conflict and instability in Europe and the Middle East, along with the effects of the current global economic environment, and the impact of each on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, actions by, or disputes among or between, members of OPEC+ and other foreign oil-exporting countries, market factors, market prices, our ability to meet debt service requirements, our ability to continue to pay cash dividends, the amount and timing of any cash dividends and our ESG initiatives. Forward-looking and other statements in this Form 10-K regarding our environmental, social and other sustainability plans and goals are not an indication that these statements are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental, social and sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Forward-looking statements often address our expected future business, financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," could, may, "anticipate," "intend," "plan," ability, "believe," "seek," "see," "will," "would," estimate, forecast, "target," guidance, outlook, opportunity or strategy. Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. No assurance can be given that such forward-looking statements will be correct or achieved or that the assumptions are accurate or will not change over time. Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for natural gas and oil; negative public perceptions of our industry; competition in the natural gas and oil exploration and production industry; the volatility of natural gas, oil and NGL prices, which are affected by general economic and business conditions, as well as increased demand for (and availability of) alternative fuels and electric vehicles; risks from regional epidemics or pandemics and related economic turmoil, including supply chain constraints; write-downs of our natural gas and oil asset carrying values due to low commodity prices; significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves and conduct our business; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves and projecting future rates of production and the amount and timing of development expenditures; drilling and operating risks and resulting liabilities; our ability to generate profits or achieve targeted results in drilling and well operations; leasehold terms expiring before production can be established; risks from our commodity price risk management activities; uncertainties, risks and costs associated with natural gas and oil operations; our need to secure adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations and to dispose of or recycle the water used; pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints and transportation interruptions; 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS our plans to participate in the LNG export industry; terrorist activities and/or cyber-attacks adversely impacting our operations; risks from failure to protect personal information and data and compliance with data privacy and security laws and regulations; disruption of our business by natural or human causes beyond our control; a deterioration in general economic, business or industry conditions; the impact of inflation and commodity price volatility, including as a result of armed conflict and instability in Europe and the Middle East, along with the effects of the current global economic environment, on our business, financial condition, employees, contractors, vendors and the global demand for natural gas and oil and on U.S. and global financial markets; our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms; the limitations on our financial flexibility due to our level of indebtedness and restrictive covenants from our indebtedness; our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our historical financial information; risks related to acquisitions or dispositions, or potential acquisitions or dispositions, including risks related to the pending Southwestern Merger, such as the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement for the Southwestern Merger; the possibility that our stockholders may not approve the issuance of our common stock in connection with the proposed transaction; the possibility that the stockholders of Southwestern may not approve the merger agreement; the risk that we or Southwestern may be unable to obtain governmental and regulatory approvals required for the proposed transaction, or required governmental and regulatory approvals may delay the Southwestern Merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause the parties to abandon the Southwestern Merger; the risk that the parties may not be able to satisfy the conditions to the proposed transaction in a timely manner or at all; risks related to limitation on our ability to pursue alternatives to the Southwestern Merger; risks related to change in control or other provisions in certain agreements that may be triggered upon completion of the Southwestern Merger; risks related to the merger agreement s restrictions on business activities prior to the effective time of the Southwestern Merger; risks related to loss of management personnel, other key employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners following the Southwestern Merger; risks related to disruption of management time from ongoing business operations due to the proposed transaction; the risk that any announcements relating to the proposed transaction could have adverse effects on the market price of our common stock or Southwestern s common stock; the risk of any unexpected costs or expenses resulting from the proposed transaction; the risk of any litigation relating to the proposed transaction; the risk that problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; and the risk that the combined company may be unable to achieve synergies or other anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies or benefits; our ability to achieve and maintain ESG certifications, goals and commitments; legislative, regulatory and ESG initiatives, addressing environmental concerns, including initiatives addressing the impact of global climate change or further regulating hydraulic fracturing, methane emissions, flaring or water disposal; 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS federal and state tax proposals affecting our industry; risks related to an annual limitation on the utilization of our tax attributes, which is expected to be triggered upon the completion of the Southwestern Merger, as well as trading in our New Common Stock, additional issuance of New Common Stock, and certain other stock transactions, which could lead to an additional, potentially more restrictive, annual limitation; and other factors that are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this report, which speak only as of the filing date, and we undertake no obligation to update this information. We urge you to carefully review and consider the disclosures in this report and our other filings with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I ITEM 1. Business Unless the context otherwise requires, references to Chesapeake, the Company, us, we and our in this report are to Chesapeake Energy Corporation together with its subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices are located at 6100 North Western Avenue, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73118, and our main telephone number at that location is (405) 848-8000. Our Business We are an independent exploration and production company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of properties to produce natural gas, oil and NGL from underground reservoirs. We own a large portfolio of onshore U.S. unconventional natural gas assets, including interests in approximately 5,000 gross natural gas wells. On January 10, 2024, Chesapeake and Southwestern entered into an all-stock merger agreement. Southwestern is an independent energy company engaged in development, exploration and production activities, including related marketing activities, within its operating areas in the Marcellus and Haynesville shale plays. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, at the effective time of the Southwestern Merger, each eligible share of Southwestern common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time will be automatically converted into the right to receive 0.0867 of a share of Chesapeake s common stock. Our Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of Southwestern both approved the merger agreement. Subject to the approval of our shareholders and Southwestern shareholders, regulatory approvals and the satisfaction or waiver of other customary closing conditions, the Southwestern Merger is targeted to close in the second quarter of 2024. During 2023, we completed our exit from Eagle Ford through three separate divestiture transactions, with aggregate proceeds from these transactions exceeding $3.5 billion, subject to customary post-closing adjustments. On March 25, 2022, we sold our Powder River Basin assets in Wyoming to Continental Resources, Inc. for approximately $450 million. On March 9, 2022, we completed our acquisition of Chief, Radler and associated non-operated interests held by affiliates of Tug Hill. Chief, Radler and Tug Hill held producing assets and an inventory of premium drilling locations in the Marcellus Shale in Northeast Pennsylvania. On November 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of Vine, an energy company focused on the development of natural gas properties in stacked Haynesville and Mid-Bossier shale plays in Northwest Louisiana. On June 28, 2020, we and certain of our subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. The Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Plan in a bench ruling on January 13, 2021 and entered the Confirmation Order on January 16, 2021. The Debtors emerged from bankruptcy on February 9, 2021. Upon emergence, all existing equity was canceled and New Common Stock was issued to the previous holders of our FLLO Term Loan Facility, Second Lien Notes, senior unsecured notes and certain general unsecured creditors whose claims were impaired as a result of our bankruptcy, as well as to other parties as set forth in the Plan, including to other parties participating in a $600 million rights offering. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh start accounting, which resulted in us becoming a new entity for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements on or after February 9, 2021 are not comparable to the consolidated financial statements prior to that date. To facilitate our discussion in this report, we refer to the post-emergence reorganized company as the Successor and the pre-emergence company as the Predecessor. See Note 2 and Note 3 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further discussion of our bankruptcy, the resulting reorganization and fresh start accounting. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Information About Us We make available, free of charge on our website at chk.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. From time to time, we also post announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations on our website in addition to copies of all recent news releases. Documents and information on our website are not incorporated by reference herein. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Chesapeake, that file electronically with the SEC. Business Strategy Our business strategy is to create shareholder value through the responsible development of our significant resource plays, while continuing to be a leading provider of affordable, reliable, lower carbon energy to markets in need. Superior Capital Returns. We consistently focus on optimizing the development of our large resource base with a prioritization of generating h