Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 33 Item 2. Properties 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 35 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 35 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Liquidity and Capital Resources 38 Results of Operations, for the Years Ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 45 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8 . Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 145 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 145 Item 9B. Other Information 145 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 145 Item 11. Executive Compensation 145 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 145 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 145 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 145 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 146 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 152 Signatures 153 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Glossary of Oil and Gas Terms The terms defined in this section are used throughout this report. Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. Bboe . One billion barrels of oil equivalent. Bcf. One billion cubic feet of natural gas. Bcfe . One billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. Btu . British thermal unit, which is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one-pound mass of water from 58.5 to 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Boe . Barrel of oil equivalent. Natural gas proved reserves and production are converted to boe at 14.73 psia and 60 degrees. Boe is based on six mcf of natural gas to one bbl of oil or one bbl of NGL. This ratio reflects an energy content equivalency and not a price or revenue equivalency. Despite holding this ratio constant at six mcf to one bbl, prices have historically often been higher or substantially higher for oil than natural gas on an energy equivalent basis, although there have been periods in which they have been lower or substantially lower. Completion . The process of treating a drilled well followed by the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil, natural gas or natural gas liquids, or in the case of a dry well, the reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned. Developed Acreage. The number of acres which are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production. Dry Well . A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or natural gas well. Exploratory Well. A well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or natural gas in another reservoir. Formation. A succession of sedimentary beds that were deposited under the same general geologic conditions. GAAP. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. Gross Acres or Gross Wells . The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. Mboe. One thousand barrels of oil equivalent. Mcf . One thousand cubic feet. Mmbbl . One million barrels of crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. Mmboe . One million barrels of oil equivalent. Mmbtu . One million btus. Mmcf. One million cubic feet. Natural Gas Liquids (NGL). Hydrocarbons in natural gas that are separated from the gas as liquids through the process of absorption, condensation, adsorption or other methods in gas processing or cycling plants. Natural gas liquids primarily include ethane, propane, butane, isobutene, pentane, hexane and natural gasoline. Net Acres or Net Wells . The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells. NYMEX . New York Mercantile Exchange. Play . A term applied to a portion of the exploration and production cycle following the identification by geologists and geophysicists of areas with potential oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS Present Value of Estimated Future Net Revenues or PV-10 (non-GAAP) . When used with respect to oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, present value of estimated future net revenues, or PV-10, means the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices calculated as the average oil and natural gas price during the preceding 12-month period prior to the end of the current reporting period, (determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period) and costs in effect at the determination date (unless such costs are subject to change pursuant to contractual provisions), without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depreciation, depletion and amortization, discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Price Differential. The difference in the price of oil, natural gas or NGL received at the sales point and the NYMEX price. Productive Well. A well that is not a dry well. Productive wells include producing wells and wells that are mechanically capable of production. Proved Developed Reserves . Proved reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well. Proved Properties . Properties with proved reserves. Proved Reserves . As used in this report, proved reserves has the meaning given to such term in Rule 4-10(a)(22) of Regulation S-X, which states in part proved oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. Proved Undeveloped Reserves (PUDs) . Proved reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required. Reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Realized and Unrealized Gains and Losses on Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Derivatives. Realized gains and losses include the following items:(i) settlements and accruals for settlements of non-designated derivatives related to current period notional production revenues, (ii) prior period settlements for option premiums and for early-terminated derivatives originally scheduled to settle against current period notional production revenues, and (iii) gains and losses related to de-designated cash flow hedges originally designated to settle against current period notional production revenues. Unrealized gains and losses include the change in fair value of open derivatives scheduled to settle against future period notional production revenues (including current period settlements for option premiums and early-terminated derivatives) offset by amounts reclassified as realized gains and losses during the period. Although we no longer designate our derivatives as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes, we believe these definitions are useful to management and investors in determining the effectiveness of our price risk management program. Realized and Unrealized Gains and Losses on Interest Rate Derivatives . Realized gains and losses include interest rate derivative settlements related to current period interest and the effect of gains and losses on early-terminated trades. Settlements of early-terminated trades are reflected in realized gains and losses over the original life of the hedged item. Unrealized gains and losses include changes in the fair value of open interest rate derivatives offset by amounts reclassified to realized gains and losses during the period. Reservoir . A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or natural gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs. Royalty Interest . An interest in an oil and natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil, natural gas or NGL production free of costs of production. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS Seismic . An exploration method of sending energy waves or sound waves into the earth and recording the wave reflections to indicate the type, size, shape and depth of subsurface rock formations. Shale . Fine-grained sedimentary rock composed mostly of consolidated clay or mud. Shale is the most frequently occurring sedimentary rock. SEC . The United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Standardized Measure . The discounted future net cash flows relating to proved reserves based on the means of the estimated future gross revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices calculated as the average oil and natural gas price during the preceding 12-month period prior to the end of the current reporting period (determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period). The standardized measure differs from the PV-10 measure only because the former includes the effects of estimated future income tax expenses. Undeveloped Acreage . Acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves. Unproved Properties . Properties with no proved reserves. Volumetric Production Payment (VPP) . As we use the term, a volumetric production payment represents a limited-term overriding royalty interest in oil and natural gas reserves that: (i) entitles the purchaser to receive scheduled production volumes over a period of time from specific lease interests; (ii) is free and clear of all associated future production costs and capital expenditures; (iii) is nonrecourse to the seller (i.e., the purchaser's only recourse is to the reserves acquired); (iv) transfers title of the reserves to the purchaser; and (v) allows the seller to retain the remaining reserves, if any, after the scheduled production volumes have been delivered. WildHorse. WildHorse Resource Development Corporation. Immediately following the completion of our acquisition of WildHorse (the First Merger ), WildHorse merged with and into Brazos Valley Longhorn, L.L.C., a newly formed Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Chesapeake, which, together with the First Merger, we refer to as the WildHorse Merger. For ease of reference, we use the term WildHorse to refer to WildHorse Resource Development Corporation prior to the acquisition and Brazos Valley Longhorn, L.L.C., Brazos Valley Longhorn or BVL after the acquisition, as applicable. Working Interest . The operating interest which gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements include our current expectations or forecasts of future events, including matters relating to our ability to meet debt service requirement, cost-cutting measures, reductions in expenditures, refinancing transactions, capital exchange transactions, asset divestitures, reductions in capital expenditures, operational efficiencies, cost savings due to operational and capital efficiencies related to the WildHorse Merger and the other items discussed in the Introduction to Item 7 of Part II of this report. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," could, may, "anticipate," "intend," "plan," ability, "believe," "seek," "see," "will," "would," estimate, forecast, "target," guidance, outlook, opportunity or strategy. Although we believe the expectations and forecasts reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they are inherently subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. No assurance can be given that such forward-looking statements will be correct or achieved or that the assumptions are accurate or will not change over time. Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: our ability to comply with the covenants under our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness; the volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices, which are affected by general economic and business conditions, as well as increased demand for (and availability of) alternative fuels and electric vehicles; uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves and projecting future rates of production and the amount and timing of development expenditures; our ability to replace reserves and sustain production; drilling and operating risks and resulting liabilities; our ability to generate profits or achieve targeted results in drilling and well operations; the limitations our level of indebtedness may have on our financial flexibility; our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms; the availability of cash flows from operations and other funds to finance reserve replacement costs or satisfy our debt obligations; adverse developments or losses from pending or future litigation and regulatory proceedings, including royalty claims; legislative and regulatory initiatives addressing environmental concerns, including initiatives addressing the impact of global climate change or further regulating hydraulic fracturing, methane emissions, flaring or water disposal; terrorist activities and/or cyber-attacks adversely impacting our operations; effects of acquisitions and dispositions, including our acquisition of WildHorse and our ability to realize related synergies and cost savings; effects of purchase price adjustments and indemnity obligations; and other factors that are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. We caution you not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this report, which speak only as of the filing date, and we undertake no obligation to update this information. We urge you to carefully review and consider the disclosures in this report and our other filings with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I Item 1. Business Unless the context otherwise requires, references to Chesapeake , the Company , us , we and our in this report are to Chesapeake Energy Corporation together with its subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices are located at 6100 North Western Avenue, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73118, and our main telephone number at that location is (405) 848-8000. Our Business We are an independent exploration and production company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and development of properties to produce oil, natural gas and NGL from underground reservoirs. We own a large and geographically diverse portfolio of onshore U.S. unconventional liquids and natural gas assets, including interests in approximately 13,500 oil and natural gas wells. We have significant positions in the liquids-rich resource plays of the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, the stacked pay in the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and the Anadarko Basin in northwestern Oklahoma. Our natural gas resource plays are the Marcellus Shale in the northern Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania and the Haynesville/Bossier Shales in northwestern Louisiana. In February 2019, we acquired WildHorse Resource Development Corporation, an oil and gas company with operations in the Eagle Ford Shale and Austin Chalk formations in southeast Texas, for approximately 717.4 million shares of our common stock and $381 million in cash, and the assumption of WildHorse s debt of $1.4 billion as of the acquisition date of February 1, 2019. The acquisition of WildHorse expands our oil growth platform and accelerates our progress toward our strategic and financial goals of enhancing our margins, achieving sustainable free cash flow generation and reducing our net debt to EBITDAX ratio. Information About Us We make available, free of charge on our website at chk.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. From time to time, we also post announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations on our website in addition to copies of all recent news releases. Documents and information on our website are not incorporated by reference herein. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Chesapeake, that file electronically with the SEC. Business Strategy Our strategy is to create shareholder value through the development of our significant resource plays. We continue to focus on reducing debt, increasing cash provided by operating activities, improving margins through financial discipline and operating efficiencies and maintaining exceptional environmental and safety performance. To accomplish these goals, we intend to allocate our capital expenditures to projects we believe offer the highest return and value regardless of the commodity price environment, to deploy leading drilling and completion technology throughout our portfolio, and to take advantage of acquisition and divestiture opportunities to strengthen our cost structure and our portfolio. Increasing our margins means not only increasing our absolute level of cash flow from operations, but also increasing our cash flow from operations generated per barrel of oil equivalent production. We continue to seek opportunities to reduce cash costs per barrel of oil equivalent production (production, gathering, processing and transportation and general and administrative) through operational efficiencies, including improving our production volumes from existing wells. We believe that our dedication to financial discipline, the flexibility and efficiency of our capital program and our continued focus on safety and environmental stewardship will provide opportunities to create value for us and our shareholders. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS Operating Areas We focus our exploration, development, acquisition and production efforts in the six geographic operating areas described below. Marcellus - Northern Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania. Haynesville - Northwestern Louisiana (Gulf Coast). Eagle Ford - South Texas. Brazos Valley - Southeast Texas assets acquired in our WildHorse acquisition on February 1, 2019. Powder River Basin - Stacked pay in Wyoming. Mid-Continent - Anadarko Basin in northwestern Oklahoma. Well Data As of December 31, 2019 , we held an interest in approximately 13,500 gross (6,800 net) productive wells, including 11,400 properties in which we held a working interest and 2,100 properties in which we held an overriding or royalty interest. Of the 11,400 properties in which we had a working interest, we operated 8,500 wells, of which 7,000 gross (4,000 net), were classified as productive natural gas wells and 4,400 gross (2,800 net) were classified as productive oil wells. During 2019 , we drilled or participated in 370 gross (273 net) wells as operator and participated in another 49 gross (3 net) wells completed by other operators. We operate approximately 97% of our current daily production volumes. Drilling Activity The following table sets forth the wells we drilled or participated in during the periods indicated. In the table, "gross" refers to the total wells in which we had a working interest and "net" refers to gross wells multiplied by our working interest: 2019 2018 2017 Gross % Net % Gross % Net % Gross % Net % Development: Productive 414 100 271 100 363 99 227 99 462 99 292 99 Dry 2 1 1 1 4 1 2 1 Total 414 100 271 100 365 100 228 100 466 100 294 100 Exploratory: Productive 1 20 1 20 10 83 9 82 2 100 2 100 Dry 4 80 4 80 2 17 2 18 Total 5 100 5 100 12 100 11 100 2 100 2 100 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS The following table shows the wells we drilled or participated in by operating area: 2019 2018 2017 Gross Wells Net Wells Gross Wells Net Wells Gross Wells Net Wells Marcellus 44 22 52 23 43 21 Haynesville 22 16 30 21 37 34 Eagle Ford 150 85 162 98 180 106 Brazos Valley 83 79 Powder River Basin 75 57 41 34 25 21 Mid-Continent 40 12 52 32 114 58 Utica 40 31 69 56 Other 5 5 Total 419 276 377 239 468 296 As of December 31, 2019 , we had 123 gross (70 net) wells in the process of being drilled or completed. Production Volumes, Sales Prices, Production Expenses and Gathering, Processing and Transportation Expenses The following table sets forth information regarding our net production volumes, average sales price received for our production, average sales price of our production combined with our realized gains or losses on derivatives and production and gathering, processing and transportation expenses per boe for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Net Production: Oil (mmbbl) 43 33 33 Natural gas (bcf) 728 832 878 NGL (mmbbl) 12 19 21 Oil equivalent (mmboe) 177 190 200 Average Sales Price of Production: Oil ($ per bbl) $ 59.16 $ 67.25 $ 51.03 Natural gas ($ per mcf) $ 2.45 $ 2.99 $ 2.76 NGL ($ per bbl) $ 15.62 $ 26.50 $ 23.18 Oil equivalent ($ per boe) $ 25.57 $ 27.27 $ 22.88 Average Sales Price (including realized gains (losses) on derivatives): Oil ($ per bbl) $ 60.00 $ 57.42 $ 53.19 Natural gas ($ per mcf) $ 2.60 $ 3.00 $ 2.75 NGL ($ per bbl) $ 15.62 $ 25.84 $ 22.98 Oil equivalent ($ per boe) $ 26.42 $ 25.56 $ 23.17 Expenses ($ per boe): Oil, natural gas and NGL production $ 2.94 $ 2.50 $ 2.59 Oil, natural gas and NGL gathering, processing and transportation $ 6.13 $ 7.35 $ 7.36 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Reserves The tables below set forth information as of December 31, 2019 , with respect to our estimated proved reserves, the associated estimated future net revenue, the present value of estimated future net revenue ( PV-10 ) and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows ( standardized measure ). None of the estimated future net revenue, PV-10 nor the standardized measure are intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil, natural gas and NGL reserves we own. All of our estimated reserves are located within the United States. December 31, 2019 Oil Natural Gas NGL Total (mmbbl) (bcf) (mmbbl) (mmboe) Proved developed 201 3,377 82 846 Proved undeveloped 157 3,189 38 726 Total proved (a) 358 6,566 120 1,572 Proved Developed Proved Undeveloped Total Proved ($ in millions) Estimated future net revenue (b) $ 10,488 $ 6,656 $ 17,144 Present value of estimated future net revenue (PV-10) (b) $ 6,341 $ 2,674 $ 9,015 Standardized measure (b) $ 9,000 ___________________________________________ (a) Marcellus, Eagle Ford, Haynesville and Brazos Valley accounted for approximately 42%, 19%, 18%, and 14% respectively, of our estimated proved reserves by volume as of December 31, 2019 . (b) Estimated future net revenue represents the estimated future revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, net of estimated production and future development costs, using pricing differentials and costs under existing economic conditions as of December 31, 2019 , and assuming commodity prices as set forth below. For the purpose of determining prices used in our reserve reports, we used the unweighted arithmetic average of the prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period ended December 31, 2019 . The prices used in our PV-10 measure were $55.69 of oil and $2.58 of natural gas, before basis differential adjustments. These prices should not be interpreted as a prediction of future prices, nor do they reflect the value of our commodity derivative instruments in place as of December 31, 2019 . The amounts shown do not give effect to non-property-related expenses, such as corporate general and administrative expenses and debt service, or to depreciation, depletion and amortization. The present value of estimated future net revenue typically differs from the standardized measure because the former does not include the effects of estimated future income tax expense of $15 million as of December 31, 2019 . Management uses PV-10, which is calculated without deducting estimated future income tax expenses, as a measure of the value of the Company's current proved reserves and to compare relative values among peer companies. We also understand that securities analysts and rating agencies use this measure in similar ways. While estimated future net revenue and the present value thereof are based on prices, costs and discount factors which may be consistent from company to company, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows is dependent on the unique tax situation of each individual company. PV-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows or any other measure of a company's financial or operating performance presented in accordance with GAAP. A comparison of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows to PV-10 is presented above. Neither PV-10 nor the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows purport to represent the fair value of our proved oil and gas reserves. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS As of December 31, 2019 , our proved reserve estimates included 726 mmboe of reserves classified as proved undeveloped, compared to 700 mmboe as of December 31, 2018 . Presented below is a summary of changes in our proved undeveloped reserves (PUDs) for 2019: Total (mmboe) Proved undeveloped reserves, beginning of period 700 Extensions and discoveries 185 Revisions of previous estimates (128 ) Developed (167 ) Purchase of reserves-in-place 136 Proved undeveloped reserves, end of period 726 As of December 31, 2019 , all PUDs were planned to be developed within five years of original recording. In 2019 , we invested approximately $1.2 billion to convert 167 mmboe of PUDs to proved developed reserves. In 2020, we estimate that we will invest approximately $1.4 billion for PUD conversion. We added 185 mmboe of proved undeveloped reserves through extensions and discoveries primarily due to an updated five-year development plan. We recorded a downward revision of 128 mmboe from previous estimates due to lateral length adjustments, performance, updates to our five-year development plan and changes in commodity prices. The future net revenue attributable to our estimated PUDs was $6.7 billion and the present value was $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2019 . These values were calculated assuming that we will expend approximately $5 billion to develop these reserves ($1.4 billion in 2020, $1.3 billion in 2021, $1.0 billion in 2022, $744 million in 2023 and $566 million in 2024). The amount and timing of these expenditures will depend on a number of factors, including actual drilling results, service costs, commodity prices and the availability of capital. Our developmental drilling schedules are subject to revision and reprioritization throughout the year resulting from unknowable factors such as unexpected developmental drilling results, title issues and infrastructure availability or constraints. Of our 846 mmboe of proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2019 , approximately 13 mmboe, or 2%, were non-producing. Our ownership interest used for calculating proved reserves and the associated estimated future net revenue assumes maximum participation by other parties to our farm-out and participation agreements. Our estimated proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of the proved reserves as of December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , along with the changes in quantities and standardized measure of the reserves for each of the three years then ended, are shown in Supplemental Disclosures About Oil, Natural Gas and NGL Producing Activities included in Item 8 of this report. No estimates of proved reserves comparable to those included herein have been included in reports to any federal agency other than the SEC. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of deve