Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2 Properties 20 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 20 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6 [Reserved] 23 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 33 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 35 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 36 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 36 Item 9B Other Information 36 Item 9C Disclosures Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 37 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 38 Item 11 Executive Compensation 38 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 38 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 39 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 39 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 40 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 42 Signatures 43 2. Forward-Looking Statements In accordance with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is making readers aware that forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. For additional information about forward-looking statements and for an identification of risk factors and their potential significance, see Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements Under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Certain Cautionary Statements immediately preceding Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 1A - "Risk Factors" in this report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements in light of subsequent events or developments. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Overview Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (herein referred to as "Expeditors, the "Company," "we," "us," "our") provides a full suite of global logistics services, offering customers a seamless international network of people and integrated information systems to support the movement and strategic positioning of goods. As a third-party logistics provider, we purchase cargo space from carriers (such as airlines, ocean shipping lines, and trucking lines) on a volume basis and resell that space to our customers. We do not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business and do not own aircraft or ships. We provide a broad range of transportation services and customer solutions, such as customs brokerage, order management, time-definite transportation, warehousing and distribution, temperature-controlled transit, cargo insurance, specialized cargo monitoring and tracking, and other customized logistics and consulting solutions. In addition, our Project Cargo unit handles special project shipments that move via a single method or combination of air, ocean, and/or ground transportation and generally require a high level of specialized attention because of the unusual size or nature of what is being shipped. Expeditors' primary services include: Airfreight Services Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Customs Brokerage and Other Services Airfreight Services: Within airfreight, Expeditors typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline that carries the shipment. Whether acting as a consolidator or agent, we offer our customers routing expertise, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services and to assist with securing capacity during periods of high demand. Solutions within Airfreight Services include: Airfreight Consolidation: as an airfreight consolidator, Expeditors purchases cargo capacity from airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to our customers at lower rates than what those customers could negotiate directly from the airlines on an individual shipment. Expeditors determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and then selects the airline for transportation to the distribution point, where either we or one of our agents then arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of each individual shipment to its final destination. Airfreight Forwarding : as a freight forwarder, Expeditors receives and forwards individual, unconsolidated shipments, and arranges the transportation with the airline that carries the shipment. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services: Within ocean services, Expeditors offers three basic services: ocean freight consolidation, direct ocean forwarding, and order management: Ocean freight consolidation : Expeditors, when acting as an ocean freight consolidator, contracts with ocean shipping carriers to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at agreed-upon rates. We handle both full container loads as well as Less-than Container Load (LCL) freight, offering a wider range of shipping options and rates than available with the carriers directly. We also generate fees for ancillary services such as the preparation of documentation to comply with local export and import laws. 3. Direct ocean forwarding : Expeditors acts as the agent when its customer contracts directly with the ocean carrier, and we may receive a commission from the carrier in addition to customer handling fees and ancillary services . Order management : Expeditors provides a range of order management services including consolidation of cargo from many suppliers in a particular origin into the fewest possible number of containers, putting more product into larger and fewer containers in order to maximize space, minimize cost and help our customers reduce their carbon footprint. Customs Brokerage and Other Services: Expeditors offers a range of custom solutions, including: Customs Brokerage and Import Services: Expeditors helps importers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and paying duties and other taxes on behalf of the importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and import services such as arranging for local pickup, storage and delivery at destinations. Such services can include screening commercial documentation for assessed value, country of origin, application of special trade programs, and classification. Our target market is primarily comprised of customers looking to reduce the number of customs brokers used, those looking to improve compliance and reporting, and those seeking opportunities to participate in special trade programs globally. Transcon: Expeditors' Transcon consists of multi-modal, intra-continental ground transportation and delivery services and includes value-added, white glove, and time-definite services. Warehousing and Distribution Services: Expeditors services include inventory management, multi-channel order fulfillment, vendor management programs, and other value-added services. Our warehousing services are generally offered globally in multi-client facilities so that customers may benefit from cost savings related to shared space, labor, equipment, and other efficiencies. Supply Chain Disruptions and Ongoing COVID-19 Impact on our Business The disruptions on supply chain and transportation continued to significantly affect our business operations and operating results in 2021. Continued imbalances between demand and available capacity for all transportation modes have resulted in historically high average buy and sell rates in 2021 from already record high rates in 2020 and creates significant challenges for our network to meet our customers needs. Continued congestion at ports and gateways and equipment and labor shortages have disrupted sailing schedules and limited the ability to increase capacity while demand grew from a rebounding economy. We expect these disruptive market conditions to continue at least through the first half of 2022. As discussed in more detail under Results of Operations , there are significant constraints on current capacity for both air freight and ocean freight. This is due to a number of factors, including reduced flight schedules from pre-pandemic levels and new regulations, which limited available belly space for cargo, congestion at ports resulting from labor and equipment shortages and insufficient warehousing space at destinations. Air freighters and charters, container ships and gateway infrastructure are operating at near maximum capacity. While we believe these constraints are not long-term in nature, they impact our current ability to move increased air and ocean volumes in these capacity-constrained regions. We are unable to predict how these uncertainties will affect our future operations or financial results, but these conditions could result in lower operating income. In addition, in an effort to protect the health and safety of our employees, we continue to operate under our global business continuity plan that we implemented in the first quarter of 2020. See Item 1A: Risk Factors below for additional details. Cyber-Attack Impact on our Business On February 20, 2022, we determined that our company was the subject of a targeted cyber-attack. Upon discovering the incident, we shut down most of our operating systems globally to manage the safety of our overall global systems environment. We had limited ability to conduct operations during this time, including but not limited to arranging for shipments of freight or managing customs and distribution activities for our customers shipments. The situation is evolving and while the Company has partially resumed operations, at this time the Company is unable to estimate when it will resume full operations. We are incurring expenses relating to the cyber-attack to investigate and remediate this matter and expect to continue to incur expenses of this nature in the future. The Company expects that the impact of the shutdown and the ongoing impacts of the cyber-attack will have a material adverse impact on its business, revenues, expenses, results of operations, cash flows and reputation. At this early stage, the Company is unable to estimate the ultimate direct and indirect financial impacts of this cyber-attack. 4. Revenues The following chart shows our 2021 and 2020 revenues by service type: The Expeditors Network Expeditors has approximately 19,000 employees and provides a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of customers that vary in size, industry and geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, we will continue to open new offices where it makes sense to support existing global customers and serve new local markets. As a knowledge-based global provider of logistics services, we have often concluded over the course of our history that it is better to grow organically rather than by acquisition. When we have made acquisitions, it has generally been to obtain technology, increase geographic coverage by acquiring or establishing joint ventures with agents or others within the industry, or gain specialized industry expertise that could be leveraged to benefit our entire network. Expeditors, including its majority-owned subsidiaries, is organized functionally in geographic operating segments and operates district offices in the regions identified below. Our district offices are defined by geographic boundaries and have been established in locations where Expeditors maintains unilateral control over operations, and where the existence of the parent-subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of voting stock. Expeditors operates 176 district offices in the following geographic areas of responsibility: Americas (70) North Asia (21) South Asia (16) Europe (45) Middle East, Africa and India (24) 5. We also maintain branch offices, which are aligned with and dependent upon one district office, where practical benefit is gained by having staff located closer to the customers they are serving. Additionally, we contract with independent agents in locations where we do not have our own offices to provide required services for our existing customers. We have established 36 such relationships worldwide. At Expeditors, we create our strategy and develop our global products, processes, technology and compliance programs at the corporate level, in order to drive consistency across all levels of the organization. Global consistency and compliance is fundamental to preserving our culture and network of people, processes, technology and locations. We leverage regional and local expertise by staffing our districts principally with local managers and personnel who are from the regions in which they operate and who often have extensive experience in logistics, coupled with a deep understanding of their local market. District offices are responsible for selling and executing Expeditors' products and services directly to customers and are involved in the selection of logistics service providers. Defining our strategy at a global level while executing it at the regional and local levels with customized supply chain solutions enables us to drive consistency and efficiency for our network and customers. We believe that focus on hiring and developing a diverse and talented workforce with an emphasis on exceptional customer service, along with our incentive-based compensation program, enables us to achieve superior financial results and provide for ongoing career advancement opportunities. Our Culture and Strategy We believe that our unique culture, at the center of which are our employees, is a critical component to our continued success. We strongly believe that it is nearly impossible to predict events that, individually or in the aggregate, could have a positive or a negative impact on our future operations. As a result, management's focus is on building and maintaining a global corporate culture and an environment where well-trained employees and managers are prepared to identify and react to changes as they develop and thereby help us adapt and thrive as major trends emerge. Expeditors strategic plan is to achieve long-term, sustainable and profitable growth by focusing on the right markets and, within each market, on the right customers that lead to profitable business growth through the aggressive marketing of our service offerings. Innovative solutions, integrated platforms and data quality are vital to achieving a competitive advantage. Our teams are aligned on the specific markets of these focused priorities on the targeted accounts within those markets and on ways that we can continue to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Our four key strategic initiatives are: 1. Ensuring that base-line strategies for air, ocean and customs services for every district office and region lead to growth at the relevant market rates, profits and volumes by services. 2. Growing our business services into and out of Europe, with particular focus on certain defined markets beyond our base-line growth expectations. 3. Continuing to leverage our long and deeply entrenched presence in China - as well as the reputation that we have with the strategic carriers servicing China - to build a stronger customs brokerage and in-country presence. Our main focus remains on developing and integrating our customs systems, expertise and talent, and making investments that enhance and improve our import brokerage infrastructure and our ability to provide local delivery and support services in China. 4. Growing our customs brokerage offering in South Asia and India by leveraging our strength and expertise in customs brokerage services and developing critical talent, processes and tools. Our chief strategy officer continues to oversee all strategy within Expeditors, with a deep focus on exploring new avenues for innovation, differentiation and expansion. Global Logistics and Supply Chain Technology Expeditors has long believed that it is a competitive advantage to focus on organic growth and to utilize a single enterprise technology platform designed and built by logistics technology professionals for logistics professionals. Our technology platform is built on principles of innovation, agility, collaboration, performance and consistency across the Expeditors global network to meet diverse and complex global logistics and supply chain needs. The platform is comprised of proprietary, third party and open-source technologies. We utilize a globally-consistent infrastructure supporting both centralized and distributed technology strategies that incorporate security, disaster recovery and high availability. Expeditors technology platform is designed, coded, tested and implemented by the collaborative efforts of our logistics industry and information technology professionals. Internally developing, maintaining and enhancing technology capabilities is in keeping with Expeditors' long-held belief that it not outsource core functions, with information systems being one of those core functions. We are not dependent on third parties for developing or enhancing our core transportation technology platforms to address our needs or those of our customers. We utilize internally developed and third-party technology to perform our customs brokerage services, to address country and regional specifications. We continuously monitor emerging technologies for potential applicability to our business. Expeditors also believes that having a single, uniform, globally-connected platform driving logistics operations and providing comprehensive visibility and advanced analytics creates greater efficiency and value, particularly as the value of timely data and insights into that data are increasingly important. We are continually enhancing our systems, including significant upgrades to core operating and accounting systems. 6. Tailored Solutions As a non-asset-based logistics services provider, we have considerable flexibility to tailor customer-specific solutions by product. By understanding a customer's logistics and supply chain processes, strategies, and objectives, we identify targeted areas of opportunity for improvement, and deploy the right services and solutions for that customer. These services include our core product offerings of transportation, customs clearance, warehousing and distribution, and order management, along with expertise in supply chain analysis and optimization, trade compliance consulting, cargo insurance, cargo security, and solutions for oversized and heavy-lift freight. Our trained professional employees deliver these services across the globe through our network of district offices using a common technology platform, in conjunction with consistent and efficient operational processes that adhere to the highest standards of compliance while focusing on the individual needs of each customer. Because Expeditors is in the business of optimizing our customers freight logistics and supply chains, we focus our sales and engagement strategies on professionals in logistics and supply chain management roles inside of customer organizations. While we drive our sales strategies at a global level, district management of each office is responsible for its own business development, operations, and service execution. We also employ dedicated account management staff who work with existing customers to improve operations and grow new business opportunities. What Expeditors Ships The goods that Expeditors handles are generally a function of the products that dominate international trade between any particular origin and destination. These goods include products from diverse industries, including electronics, high technology, healthcare, aerospace and aviation, manufacturing, oil and energy, automotive, retail consumer goods and fashion. In order to meet customers' complex and industry-specific demands, we utilize industry vertical teams throughout our network that focus on providing tailored solutions to different industries. Industry vertical teams work closely with our regional and district resources to grow our business. No single customer accounts for five percent or more of our revenues. Expeditors' Services in Detail The following describes in more detail the operations of each of Expeditors services: Airfreight Services Airfreight services accounted for approximately 41% and 45% of Expeditors' total revenues in 2021 and 2020, respectively. When performing airfreight services, we typically act either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline that carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator, we purchase cargo capacity from airlines on a volume basis and resell that space to our customers at lower rates than they could obtain directly from airlines on an individual shipment. We then issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) to our customers as the contract of carriage and separately, we receive a Master Airway Bill from the airline when the freight is physically tendered. When moving shipments between points where the nature or volume of business does not facilitate consolidation, we receive and forward individual shipments as the agent of the airline that carries the shipment. Whether acting as a consolidator or agent, we offer our customers expertise for optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with securing capacity during periods of high demand. In our airfreight operations, we receive shipments from our customers, determine the routing, consolidate shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and select the airline for transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, either we or an Expeditors' agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to their final destinations. We estimate that our average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,800 pounds and that a typical consolidation includes merchandise from several shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high value-to-weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both. At the origin, Expeditors typically delivers shipments from one of our warehouses to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets. Normally that shipment will then arrive at the destination distribution point within 48 hours from the point of origin. During periods of high demand, available cargo capacity from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, we may charter aircraft to meet customer demand. In 2021, as a result of reduced availability in passenger aircraft capacity we greatly increased our usage of chartered aircraft. We expect to continue to utilize chartered aircraft as long as international passenger flights remain insufficient to meet the demand for freight capacity. Expeditors consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in cost-effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment increases, the cost that we charge per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter decreases. The rates charged by airlines also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them 7. to an airline as a single shipment, we are able to obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than what is charged for an individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained directly from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment. Our airfreight revenues less directly related costs of transportation and other expenses for a consolidated shipment include the differential between the rate that the airline charges Expeditors and the rate that we, in turn, charge our customers, in addition to commissions that the airline pays us and fees that we charge our customers for ancillary services. Such ancillary services we provide include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating, insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and the preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws. Expeditors' management believes that owning aircraft would subject us to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating expenses, exposure to volatile fuel prices, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with our service providers - the airlines. Because we rely on commercial airlines to transport our shipments, our business may be adversely affected by changes in carrier financial stability, policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, capacity and frequency of service. Many passenger air carriers remain highly leveraged and incurred operating losses in 2021. Uncertainty over recovery of demand for passenger air travel compared to pre-pandemic levels and uncertainty related to jet fuel cost may impact air carriers operations and financial stability long term. Th is environment requires that we be selective in determining which carriers to utilize. Carriers' financial results will continue to drive their asset acquisition and deployment strategies, which will impact airfreight pricing and capacity. Most of Expeditors' customers are focused on improving supply-chain efficiency, reducing overall logistics costs by negotiating lower rates and utilizing ocean freight whenever possible. Certain customers are increasingly utilizing airfreight to improve speed to market. We expect these trends to continue in conjunction with carriers' efforts to manage available capacity and the evolution of consumer purchasing behavior, such as online shopping. Changes in available capacity, periods of high demand, or other market disruptions has impacted and could continue to impact our buy and sell rates and challenge our ability to maintain historical unitary profitability. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 34% and 24% of Expeditors' total revenues in 2021 and 2020, respectively. We operate Expeditors International Ocean, Inc. (EIO), an Ocean Transportation Intermediary, sometimes referred to as a Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC), which specializes in ocean freight services in most major trade lanes in the world. EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location where we have an office or an agent. Ocean freight services are comprised of three basic services: ocean freight consolidation, direct ocean forwarding and order management. Ocean freight consolidation : As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO provides full container load services to companies that need flexibility and access to vessel capacity that they may not necessarily achieve by dealing directly with the shipping lines. Additionally, EIO supports customers that prefer to supplement their carrier strategy with an NVOCC. EIO also leverages the Expeditors global gateway network for the movement of LCL freight for customers needing to ship smaller consignments via ocean. EIO issues a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) or a House Seaway Bill to customers as the contract of carriage and receives a separate Master Ocean Bill of Lading (MOBL) when freight is physically tendered. Revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary services that EIO may provide include the preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating, insurance services, and the preparation of documentation to comply with local export and import laws. We also charter vessels to support both our customers special projects and our container capacity needs. Direct ocean forwarding : When the customer contracts directly with the ocean carrier, EIO acts as an agent of the customer and derives its revenues from commissions paid by the ocean carrier and handling fees paid by the customer. In such arrangements, EIO does not issue a HOBL or House Seaway Bill. Rather, the carrier issues a MOBL directly to the customer who employs EIO to create documentation, manage shipment information and arrange various services to facilitate the shipment of goods. The MOBL shows the customer as the shipper. Order management : Order management provides services that manage origin consolidation, supplier performance, carrier allocation, carrier performance, container management, document management, delivery management and Order/SKU visibility through our web-based portal. Customers have the ability to monitor and report against near real-time status of orders from the date of creation through final delivery. Item quantities, required ship dates, required delivery dates, commodity descriptions, estimated vs. actual ex-factory dates, container utilization, document creation and visibility are many of the managed functions that are visible and reportable via our web-based portal. Order management is available for 