Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2 Properties 16 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 16 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 30 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 31 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 31 Item 9B Other Information 31 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 32 Item 11 Executive Compensation 32 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 32 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 33 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 33 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 33 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 35 Signatures 36 2. Forward-Looking Statements In accordance with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is making readers aware that forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. For additional information about forward-looking statements and for an identification of risk factors and their potential significance, see Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements Under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Certain Cautionary Statements immediately preceding Part II, Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 1A - "Risk Factors" in this report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements in light of subsequent events or developments. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Overview Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (herein referred to as "Expeditors, the "Company," "we," "us," "our") provides a full suite of global logistics services, offering customers a seamless international network of people and integrated information systems to support the movement and strategic positioning of goods. As a third party logistics provider, we purchase cargo space from carriers (such as airlines, ocean shipping lines, and trucking lines) on a volume basis and resell that space to our customers. We do not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business and do not own aircraft or ships. We provide a broad range of transportation services and customer solutions, such as customs brokerage, order management, time-definite transportation, warehousing and distribution, temperature-controlled transit, cargo insurance, specialized cargo monitoring and tracking, and other customized logistics and consulting solutions. In addition, our Project Cargo unit handles special project shipments that move via a single method or combination of air, ocean, and/or ground transportation and generally requires a high level of specialized attention because of the unusual size or nature of what is being shipped. Expeditors' primary services include: Airfreight Services Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Customs Brokerage and Other Services Airfreight Services: Within airfreight, Expeditors typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline that carries the shipment. Whether acting as a consolidator or agent, we offer our customers routing expertise, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services and to assist with securing capacity during periods of high demand. Solutions within Airfreight Services include: Airfreight Consolidation: as an airfreight consolidator, Expeditors purchases cargo capacity from airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to our customers at lower rates than what those customers could negotiate directly from the airlines on an individual shipment. Expeditors determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and then selects the airline for transportation to the distribution point, where either we or one of our agents then arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of each individual shipment to its final destination. Airfreight Forwarding : as a freight forwarder, Expeditors receives and forwards individual, unconsolidated shipments, and arranges the transportation with the airline that carries the shipment. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services: Within ocean services, Expeditors offers three basic services: ocean freight consolidation, direct ocean forwarding, and order management: Ocean Freight Consolidation: as an ocean freight consolidator, Expeditors contracts with ocean shipping carriers to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at agreed-upon rates. We handle both full container loads as well as Less-than Container Load (LCL) freight, offering lower rates than what is available directly from the shipping lines. We also generate fees for ancillary services such as shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating, insurance services, and the preparation of documentation to comply with local export and import laws. 3. Direct Ocean Forwarding : when a customer contracts directly with the ocean carrier, Expeditors acts as that customer s agent and we may receive a commission from the carrier in addition to customer handling fees and ancillary services . Order Management : Expeditors provides a range of order management services including consolidation of cargo from many suppliers in a particular origin into the fewest possible number of containers, putting more product into larger and fewer containers in order to maximize space, minimize cost and help our customers reduce their carbon footprint. Customs Brokerage and Other Services: Expeditors offers a range of custom solutions, including: Customs Brokerage Services: Expeditors helps importers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and paying duties and other taxes on behalf of the importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for local pickup, storage and delivery. Such services can include review of commercial documentation, assessment of information regarding value, country of origin, special trade programs, and classification. Our target market is primarily comprised of customers looking to reduce the number of brokers utilized globally those looking to improve compliance and reporting and those seeking opportunities to participate in special trade-incentive programs. Transcon: Expeditors' Transcon consists of multi-modal, intra-continental ground transportation and delivery services and includes value-added, white glove, and time-definite services. Warehousing and Distribution Services: Expeditors distribution and warehousing services include distribution center management, inventory management, order fulfillment, returns programs, and other value-added services. Our warehousing services are offered primarily in leased facilities utilized by multiple customers. Customers benefit from cost savings related to space, labor, equipment and other efficiencies delivered in a transactional pricing model. Revenues The following charts show our 2019 revenues by service type: 4. The Expeditors Network Beginning in 1981, Expeditors primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from Asia to the United States and related customs brokerage and other services. In the mid-1980 s, we began to expand our service capabilities in airfreight, ocean freight and distribution services. Today Expeditors has approximately 18,000 employees and provides a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, we plan to open new offices. While Expeditors has historically expanded through organic growth, we have also been open to growth through acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with existing agents or others within the industry. At January 31, 2020, Expeditors, including its majority-owned subsidiaries, is organized functionally in geographic operating segments and operates district offices in the regions identified below. Our district offices have been established in locations where Expeditors maintains unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the parent-subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of voting stock. Expeditors operates 176 district offices in the following geographic areas of responsibility: Americas (70) North Asia (21) South Asia (16) Europe (45) Middle East, Africa and India (24) We also maintain branch offices, which are aligned with and dependent on one district office. Additionally, we contract with independent agents to provide required services and have established 38 such relationships worldwide. For information concerning the amount of revenues, directly related cost of transportation and other expenses, salaries and other operating expenses, operating income, identifiable assets, capital expenditures and equity attributable to the geographic areas in which we conduct our business, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Our Strategy Expeditors continues to focus on executing key strategic initiatives that are designed to achieve long-term earnings growth. The strategic plan is to grow our business by focusing on the right markets and, within each market, on the right customers, that lead to profitable business growth. Expeditors teams are aligned on the specific markets of its focused priorities on the targeted accounts within those markets and on ways that we can continue to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. While we continue to emphasize expanding our business in North America, we simultaneously remain focused on growth based on three key strategic initiatives: 1. Ensure that every operating unit's base-line growth strategies for air, ocean and customs services grow at the relevant market growth rate of each unit (i.e. district or region). 2. Align and integrate our European-Asian Pacific and European-North Americas interests to the same degree that our Asian Pacific and Americas interests have historically been aligned. This alignment is expected to result in additional growth in these markets beyond our base-line growth expectations. 3. Leverage our long and deeply entrenched presence in China - as well as the reputation that we have with the strategic carriers servicing China - to build a stronger import presence. Our main focus remains on developing and integrating our customs systems, expertise and talent, and making investments that enhance and improve our import infrastructure and our ability to provide local delivery and support services in China. Our Chief Strategy Officer continues to oversee all Strategy within Expeditors, with a deep focus on exploring new avenues for innovation, differentiation and expansion. Global Logistics and Supply Chain Technology Expeditors has long believed that it is a competitive advantage to focus on organic growth and to utilize a single enterprise technology platform designed and built by logistics technology professionals for logistics professionals. Our technology platform is built on principles of innovation, agility, collaboration, performance and consistency across the Expeditors global network to meet diverse and complex global logistics and supply 5. chain needs. The platform is comprised of proprietary, third party and open source technologies. We utilize a globally consistent infrastructure supporting both centralized and distributed technology strategies that incorporate security, disaster recovery and high availability. Expeditors technology platform is designed, coded, tested and implemented by the collaborative efforts of our logistics industry and information technology professionals. Internally developing, maintaining and enhancing technology capabilities is in keeping with Expeditors' long-held belief that it not outsource core functions, with information systems being one of those core functions. We are not dependent on third parties for developing or enhancing our core technology platforms to address our needs or those of our customers. We continuously monitor emerging technologies for potential applicability to our business. Expeditors also believes that having a single, uniform, globally-connected platform driving logistics operations and providing comprehensive visibility and advanced analytics creates greater efficiency and value, particularly as the value of timely data and insights into that data are increasingly important. We are continually enhancing our systems, including significant upgrades to core operating and accounting systems. Organic Versus Acquired Growth As a knowledge-based global provider of logistics services, we have often concluded over the course of our history that it is better to grow organically rather than by acquisition. When we have made acquisitions, it has generally been to obtain technology, geographic coverage or specialized industry expertise that could be leveraged to benefit our entire network. Nevertheless, despite our history of organic growth, we are not opposed to acquisitions and we will continue to identify and assess potential acquisitions. Tailored Solutions As a non-asset based logistics services provider, we have considerable flexibility to tailor customer-specific solutions. By understanding a customer's logistics and supply chain processes, strategies, and objectives, we identify targeted areas of opportunity for improvement, and deploy the right services and solutions for that customer. These services include our core offerings of transportation, customs clearance, warehousing and distribution, and order management, along with expertise in supply chain analysis and optimization, trade compliance consulting, cargo insurance, cargo security, and solutions for oversized and heavy-lift freight. We offer these services across the globe on a single technology platform, in conjunction with consistent and efficient operational processes that adhere to the highest standards of compliance while focusing on the individual needs of each customer. Because Expeditors is in the business of optimizing customer logistics and supply chains, we focus our sales strategies and efforts on professionals in logistics and supply chain management roles. While we drive our sales strategies at a global level, district management of each office is responsible for its own business development, operations, and service execution. All employees are responsible for customer service and retention. Leveraging Global, Regional and Local Expertise At Expeditors, we create strategy, process, technology and compliance programs at the corporate level, in order to drive consistency across all levels of the organization. We leverage regional and local expertise by staffing our districts principally with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in logistics, coupled with a deep understanding of their local market. District offices are responsible for selling and executing Expeditors' services directly to customers and prospects and are involved in the selection of logistics service providers, in addition to ensuring that customers receive timely and effective services. Defining our strategy at a global level while executing it at a regional and local level with customized supply chain solutions enables us to drive consistency and efficiency. We believe that focus on hiring and developing a diverse and talented workforce with an emphasis on exceptional customer service, along with our incentive-based compensation program, enables us to provide exceptional service and superior financial results. What Expeditors Ships The goods that Expeditors handles are generally a function of the products that dominate international trade between any particular origin and destination. These goods include products from multiple industries, including electronics, high technology, healthcare, aerospace and aviation, manufacturing, oil and energy, automotive, retail and fashion. In order to meet customers' complex and industry-specific demands, we utilize industry vertical teams throughout our network that focus on providing tailored solutions to different industries. Industry vertical teams work closely with our regional and district resources to grow our business. No single customer accounts for five percent or more of our revenues. Expeditors' Services in Detail The following describes in more detail the operations of each of Expeditors services: 6. Airfreight Services Airfreight services accounted for approximately 36, 40 and 42 percent of Expeditors' total revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. When performing airfreight services, we typically act either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline that carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator, we purchase cargo capacity from airlines on a volume basis and resell that space to our customers at lower rates than they could obtain directly from airlines on an individual shipment. We then issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) to our customers as the contract of carriage and, separately, we receive a Master Airway Bill from the airline when the freight is physically tendered. When moving shipments between points where the nature or volume of business does not facilitate consolidation, we receive and forward individual shipments as the agent of the airline that carries the shipment. Whether acting as a consolidator or agent, we offer our customers expertise for optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with securing capacity during periods of high demand. In our airfreight operations, we receive shipments from our customers, determine the routing, consolidate shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and select the airline for transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, either we or an Expeditors' agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to their final destinations. We estimate that our average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,000 pounds and that a typical consolidation includes merchandise from several shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high value-to-weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both. At the origin, Expeditors typically delivers shipments from one of our warehouses to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets. Normally that shipment will then arrive at the destination distribution point within 48 hours from the point of origin. During periods of high demand, available cargo capacity from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, we may charter aircraft to meet customer demand. Expeditors consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in cost-effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment increases, the cost that we charge per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter decreases. The rates charged by airlines also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single shipment, we are able to obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than what is charged for an individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained directly from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment. Our airfreight revenues less directly related costs of transportation and other expenses for a consolidated shipment include the differential between the rate that the airline charges Expeditors and the rate that we, in turn, charge our customers, in addition to commissions that the airline pays us and fees that we charge our customers for ancillary services. Such ancillary services we provide include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating, insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and the preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws. Expeditors' management believes that owning aircraft would subject us to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating expenses, exposure to volatile fuel prices, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with our service providers - the airlines. Because we rely on commercial airlines to transport our shipments, our business may be adversely affected by changes in carrier financial stability, policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, capacity and frequency of service. Although airline profitability has improved, many air carriers remain highly leveraged with debt. Carriers' financial results will continue to drive their asset acquisition and deployment strategies, which will impact airfreight pricing and capacity. Most of Expeditors' customers are focused on improving supply-chain efficiency, reducing overall logistics costs by negotiating lower rates and utilizing ocean freight whenever possible. Certain customers are increasingly utilizing airfreight to improve speed to market. We expect these trends to continue in conjunction with carriers' efforts to manage available capacity and the evolution of consumer purchasing behavior, such as online shopping. Changes in available capacity, periods of high demand, or other market disruptions could impact our buy and sell rates and challenge our ability to maintain historical unitary profitability. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 27, 28 and 30 percent of Expeditors' total revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We operate Expeditors International Ocean, Inc. (EIO), an Ocean Transportation Intermediary, sometimes referred to as a Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC), which specializes in ocean freight services in most major trade lanes in the world. EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location where we have an office or an agent. Ocean freight services are comprised of three basic services: ocean freight consolidation (EIO), direct ocean forwarding and order management. 7. Ocean freight consolidation : As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO provides full container load services to companies that need flexibility and access to vessel capacity that they may not necessarily achieve by dealing directly with the shipping lines. Additionally, EIO supports customers that prefer to supplement their carrier strategy with an NVOCC. EIO also leverages the Expeditors global gateway network for the movement of LCL freight for customers needing to ship smaller consignments via ocean. EIO issues a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) or a House Seaway Bill to customers as the contract of carriage and receives a separate Master Ocean Bill of Lading (MOBL) when freight is physically tendered. Revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary services that EIO may provide include the preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating, insurance services, and the preparation of documentation to comply with local export and import laws. Direct ocean forwarding : When the customer contracts directly with the ocean carrier, EIO acts as an agent of the customer and derives its revenues from commissions paid by the ocean carrier and handling fees paid by the customer. In such arrangements, EIO does not issue a HOBL or House Seaway Bill. Rather, the carrier issues a MOBL directly to the customer who employs EIO to create documentation, manage shipment information and arrange various services to facilitate the shipment of goods. The MOBL shows the customer as the shipper. Order management : Order management provides services that manage origin consolidation, supplier performance, carrier allocation, carrier performance, container management, document management, delivery management and Order/SKU visibility through our web-based portal. Customers have the ability to monitor and report against near real-time status of orders from the date of creation through final delivery. Item quantities, required ship dates, required delivery dates, commodity descriptions, estimated vs. actual ex-factory dates, container utilization, document creation and visibility are many of the managed functions that are visible and reportable via our web-based portal. Order management is available for various modes of transportation, including ocean, air, truck and rail. Order management revenues are derived from services provided to the shipper, as well as management fees associated with managing order execution against customer specific rules. One basic function of order management involves arranging cargo from many suppliers in a particular origin and consolidating these shipments into the fewest possible number of containers to maximize space utilization and minimize cost. Through origin consolidation, customers can reduce the number of containers shipped by putting more product in larger and fewer containers. Ocean carriers have incurred substantial operating losses in recent years, and many are highly leveraged with debt. Multiple carrier acquisitions and alliances are occurring and certain carriers are entering into traditional freight forwarding services as they pursue scale and additional market share in an effort to reduce operating costs and regain their financial footing. Additionally, many carriers continue to take delivery of new and larger ships, which has created excess capacity. This excess capacity is at the heart of the carriers' financial challenge as they pursue business at lower rate levels to achieve higher load factors. Carriers also face new regulatory requirements that became effective in 2020, requiring reductions in the sulfur in marine fuel, which are increasing their operating and capital costs. Consequently, when the market goes through seasonal peaks or any sort of disruption and demand exceeds supply, the carriers react by increasing their pricing as quickly as possible to offset their previous losses. This carrier behavior, along with fluctuations in demand, creates pricing volatility that could impact Expeditors' ability to maintain historical unitary profitability. Expeditors pricing is based on contract negotiations each year with our global carrier partners. Our pricing model is flexible. We purchase based on customer needs, and our carrier strategy determines our volume and pricing commitments. Fixed pricing arrangements are entered into for a portion of our forecasted commitments, while spot market pricing arrangements are typically negotiated at the regional and local levels. We offer our customers a wide carrier footprint globally to meet their changing needs. With fewer global carriers than in the past, maintaining close relationships with our carrier partners allows us to meet our customers space requirements throughout the year, including during peak periods. Customs Brokerage and Other Services Customs brokerage and other services accounted for approximately 37, 32 and 28 percent of Expeditors' total revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. As a customs broker, we assist our customers in clearing shipments through customs by preparing and transmitting required information and documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the importer, arranging required inspections by governmental agencies, and providing delivery services. We provide customs brokerage services in conjunction with transportation services or independently. Expeditors supports regulatory compliance and visibility to the supply chain through process and system controls, technology and oversight by licensed and trained professionals. We offer a customized, solutions-based approach to our customers, based on the complexity of their business. Our pricing reflects this complexity and scope, in addition to the number of declarations filed. We also provide other value added services within our network, such as warehousing and distribution, Transcon and consulting services. Expeditors' distribution and warehousing services include distribution center management, inventory management, order fulfillment, returns programs and industry-specific, value-added services. Our warehousing services are offered primarily in leased facilities utilized by multiple customers. Customers benefit from cost savings related to space, labor, equipment and other efficiencies delivered in a transactional pricing model. Expeditors' Transcon consists of multi-modal, intra-continental ground transportation and delive