Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 9 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C Cybersecurity 24 Item 2 Properties 25 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 28 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6 Reserved 30 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B Other Information 51 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 51 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 51 Item 11 Executive Compensation 51 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 51 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 51 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 51 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules 51 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 55 Signatures 56 Table of Contents Expedia Group, Inc. Form 10-K For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 Note About Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, goal, intends, likely, may, plans, potential, predicts, projected, seeks, should and will, or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. We refer to Expedia Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries collectively as Expedia Group, the Company, us, we and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Part I. Item 1. Business Overview Expedia Group, Inc. is an online travel company, and our mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good. Travel is an essential human experience that strengthens connections, broadens horizons and bridges divides. We leverage our supply portfolio, platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of consumer brands, and provide solutions to our business partners, to empower travelers to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. At the end of 2023, we had over 3 million lodging properties available, including over 2 million online bookable alternative accommodations listings through Vrbo, over 940,000 hotels and alternative accommodations through our other brands, over 500 airlines, packages, rental cars, cruises, insurance, as well as activities and experiences. Travel suppliers distribute and market products via our apps, desktop and mobile offerings, as well as through alternative distribution channels, our business partnerships and our call centers in order to reach our extensive global audience. In addition, our advertising and media businesses help other businesses, primarily travel providers, reach a large multi-platform audience of travelers around the globe. Historical Development Over 25 years ago, we began operations as one of the first online travel agencies ( OTAs ) and played a significant role in revolutionizing and democratizing travel, by empowering customers to manage their own travel plans. We did so by building and then leveraging proprietary technology to connect partners and their respective inventory to those travelers, while unlocking the marketplace for travel to other businesses as well. Since then, the travel industry has experienced significant transformation, including the material shift from offline to online travel booking. This transformation led to many years of exciting growth for OTAs along with increased competition. In order to remain innovative and competitive, we made several strategic acquisitions, which materially expanded the breadth and depth of our Company. Much of our strategy leading up to the COVID-19 pandemic focused on our brands competing aggressively for share all the around the world, each with their own offerings and benefits. However, it also created certain complexities and inefficiencies over time. To reduce complexity and improve operations, in 2020, we shifted to a platform operating model, which enabled us to deliver more scalable services and operate much more efficiently. For example, we now manage our marketing investments holistically across the entire brand portfolio, allowing us to optimize our spend to achieve better returns, and run on a unified marketing technology platform, improving our performance by scaling our marketing capabilities. We also shifted to a unified brand strategy within our B2C business where we have a combined team making decisions across all our brands. These changes 1 Table of Contents were made in an effort to simplify and streamline our organization, improve our cost structure, and the operation of our business. Moreover, to streamline activities and enhance focus on our core businesses, we shut down or sold a number of businesses since the beginning of 2020, including Egencia, a travel management company focused on corporate travel. On November 1, 2021, the sale of Egencia to American Express Global Business Travel ( GBT ) was completed. As part of the transaction, Expedia Group received a minority ownership position in the combined business and entered into a 10-year lodging supply agreement with GBT. Both Egencia pre-closing and the GBT lodging supply agreement impact our B2B segment financials. The result of these cumulative actions enables more focus on improving the overall experience for our travelers. In 2021, we began evolving our consumer retail strategy from being largely transactionally focused, where we were primarily focused on acquiring customers through performance marketing channels to building direct, longer-lasting relationships with our customers. With that goal in mind, we focused towards increasing customer loyalty and app adoption as loyalty members and app users typically experience higher repeat rates, gross profits and bookings relative to non-loyalty members and non-app users. Further, we aim to provide our customers with a high-quality product experience, strong membership benefits and broad multi-product supply offering, all of which encourages higher conversion, repeat rates and engagement. As part of our platform operating model strategy, we migrated both the Hotels.com and Vrbo front-end stacks onto the Brand Expedia stack and created one unified front-end stack in 2023, which increases our test-and-learn capacity and feature release velocity while also providing a scalable and efficient base to operate upon. We also launched One Key in the United States, which serves as the unified loyalty program under Brand Expedia, Hotels.com and Vrbo, enabling travelers to cross-earn and cross-redeem awards across these brands and our range of products such as air, hotels and alternative accommodations. One Key will also be launched in more countries going forward. Market Opportunity and Business Strategy Expedia Group is one of the world s largest online travel companies, yet our gross bookings represent a single-digit percentage of total worldwide travel spending highlighting the size of our market opportunity. Phocuswright estimates global travel spending, inclusive of alternative accommodations and tours and activities, at approximately $2 trillion in 2024. Our focus is to: leverage our brand, supply, and platform technology strength, to provide greater services and value to our travelers, suppliers and business partners, and build longer-lasting direct relationships with our customers. Leverage Brand and Supply Strength to Power the Travel Ecosystem. We believe the strength of our core brand portfolio and consistent enhancements to product and service offerings, combined with our global scale and broad-based supply, drive increasing value to customers and customer demand. With our significant global audience of travelers, and our deep and broad selection of travel products, we are also able to provide value to supply partners seeking to grow their business through sophisticated technology, a better understanding of travel retailing and reaching consumers in markets beyond their reach. Our deep product and supply footprint allows us to tailor offerings to target different types of consumers and travel needs, employ geographic segmentation in markets around the world, and leverage brand differentiation, among other benefits. We also market to consumers through a variety of channels, including internet search, metasearch and social and digital media. Our portfolio of brands, operated and organized by reportable segment are as follows: B2C . Our B2C segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through recognized consumer brands that target a variety of customer segments and geographic regions with tailored offerings. Our portfolio of B2C brands include: Brand Expedia . Brand Expedia is a leading full-service online travel brand in a wide range of countries around the world offering a wide selection of travel products and services. Hotels.com. Hotels.com focuses on lodging accommodations. Vrbo. Vrbo operates an online marketplace for the alternative accommodations industry. The Vrbo portfolio includes the alternative accommodation brand, Vrbo, which operates localized websites around the world as well as other regional brands. We have multiple other brands including, but not limited to, Orbitz, Travelocity, ebookers and Wotif Group. While we maintain a large portfolio of consumer brands, we put the majority of our marketing efforts towards our three core consumer brands: Expedia, Hotels.com, and Vrbo. 2 Table of Contents B2B. Our B2B segment fuels a wide range of travel and non-travel companies including airlines, offline travel agents, online retailers, corporate travel management and financial institutions, who leverage our leading travel technology and tap into our diverse supply to augment their offerings and market Expedia Group rates and availabilities to their travelers. Expedia's B2B partners can benefit from our technology and supply in the way that best suits their business. This includes connecting to Expedia Group's travel content through our API, Rapid; adopting one of our customized white label or co-branded ecommerce template solutions; or a powerful agent booking tool, Expedia Travel Affiliate Agent Program ("TAAP"). Prior to its sale on November 1, 2021, our B2B segment also included Egencia, which was our full-service travel management company. We also offer an optimized distribution product to help hotel suppliers distribute wholesale rates through authorized channels. Our B2B segment also includes room nights, gross bookings, and associated economics from our lodging supply agreement we entered into with GBT in conjunction with the sale of Egencia. trivago. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. trivago is our majority-owned hotel metasearch company, based in Dusseldorf, Germany. The online platform gives travelers access to price comparisons from hundreds of booking websites for millions of hotels and other accommodations. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is a leading global brand in hotel search and can be accessed worldwide. The company is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and trades under the symbol "TRVG." Leverage Our Platform to Deliver More Rapid Product Innovation Resulting in Better Traveler Experiences. During 2020, Expedia Group unified its technology, product, data engineering, and data science teams to build services and capabilities that can be leveraged across our business units to provide value-add services to our travel suppliers and serve our end customers. The unified team structure enables us to deliver more scalable services and operate more efficiently. We have also completed the migration of our core B2C brands onto a unified Brand Expedia technology front-end infrastructure, having migrated Hotels.com onto the infrastructure in 2022 and Vrbo in 2023. As we continue to mature our shared platform infrastructure, our focus is on developing configurable technical capabilities that support various travel products while using simpler, standard architecture and common applications and frameworks. We believe this strategy will enable us to: simultaneously build pieces of technology that work in tandem; ship new capabilities and features faster; create a foundation for more innovative solutions; and achieve greater economies of scope and scale. Ultimately, we believe this will result in more product improvements faster and therefore better traveler experiences. In addition, over time, as we execute on our streamlined application development framework, we believe we can unlock additional platform service opportunities beyond the scope of our internal brands and business travel partners. All of our transaction-based businesses now benefit from our shared platform infrastructure, including customer servicing and support, data centers, search capabilities, payment processing, and fraud operations. We also launched One Key in the United States, which serves as the unified loyalty program under Brand Expedia, Hotels.com and Vrbo, enabling travelers to cross-earn and cross-redeem rewards across these brands and our range of products such as air, hotels and alternative accommodations. One Key will also be launched in more countries going forward. We provide 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week traveler sales and support by our virtual agent platform, telephone, chat, or e-mail. For purposes of operational flexibility, we use a combination of outsourced and in-house contact centers. Our contact centers are located in several countries throughout the world. We invested significantly in our contact center technologies, with the goal of improving customer experience and increasing the efficiency of our contact center agents and we expect to continue reaping the benefits of these investments going forward. In addition, we have continued to invest in our customer service platform technology, which leverages technology and artificial intelligence to provide our customers with online customer service options and self-service capabilities. Today our websites and apps are powered through a combination of legacy company-owned data centers and increasingly via cloud platforms. We are nearing the end of a multi-year project to migrate our products, data storage and functionality to public cloud computing services. For our legacy company-owned data centers, our systems infrastructure and web and database servers are housed in various locations, mainly in the United States, which have 24-hour monitoring and engineering support. These data centers have their own generators and multiple back-up systems. For some critical systems, we have both production and disaster-recovery facilities. Our technology systems are subject to certain risks, which are described below in Part I,