Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 9 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 2 Properties 24 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 27 Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6 Reserved 29 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 47 Item 8 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 49 Item 9B Other Information 51 Part III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 51 Item 11 Executive Compensation 51 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 51 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 51 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 51 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules 51 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 56 Signatures 57 Table of Contents Expedia Group, Inc. Form 10-K For the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Part I. Item 1. Business We refer to Expedia Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries collectively as Expedia Group, the Company, us, we and our in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. COVID-19, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from it, and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic, could also give rise to or aggravate these risk factors, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) and/or stock price. Further, COVID-19 may also continue to affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, goal, intends, likely, may, plans, potential, predicts, projected, seeks, should and will, or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. Management Overview COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has severely restricted the level of economic activity around the world, had an unprecedented effect on the global travel industry and materially and negatively impacted our business, financial results and financial condition. Since the first quarter of 2020, the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions have implemented, and continue to implement, a variety of containment measures, including travel restrictions, bans and advisories, instructions to practice social distancing, curfews, quarantine advisories, including quarantine restrictions after travel in certain locations, shelter-in-place orders, required closures of non-essential businesses, vaccination mandates or requirements for businesses to confirm employees vaccination status, and other restrictions. While the process of vaccinating their residents against COVID-19 is underway in many countries, with various levels of success, the large scale and challenging logistics of distributing the vaccines, the unavailability of vaccines in many regions, the impact of vaccine hesitancy, as well as uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccine against new variants of the virus, may all contribute to delays in economic recovery, particularly for the travel industry. Overall, the full duration and total impact of COVID-19 remains uncertain and it is difficult to predict how the recovery will unfold for the travel industry and, in particular, our business, going forward. General Description of Our Business Expedia Group, Inc. is an online travel company, and our mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good. Travel is an essential human experience that strengthens connections, broadens horizons and bridges divides. We leverage our supply portfolio, platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of consumer brands, and provide solutions to our business partners, to empower travelers to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We seek to grow our business through a dynamic portfolio of travel brands, including our majority-owned subsidiaries, that feature a broad multi-product supply portfolio with approximately 3 million lodging properties available, including over 2 million online bookable alternative accommodations listings and approximately 875,000 hotels, over 500 1 Table of Contents airlines, packages, rental cars, cruises, insurance, as well as activities and experiences across most countries. Travel suppliers distribute and market products via our desktop and mobile offerings, as well as through alternative distribution channels, our business partnerships and our call centers in order to reach our extensive global audience. In addition, our advertising and media businesses help other businesses, primarily travel providers, reach a large multi-platform audience of travelers around the globe. Over 25 years ago, we began operations as one of the first online travel agencies ( OTAs ) and played a significant role in revolutionizing and democratizing travel, by empowering customers to manage their own travel plans. We did so by building and then leveraging proprietary technology to connect partners and their respective inventory to those travelers, while unlocking the marketplace for travel to other businesses as well. Since then, the travel industry has experienced significant transformation, including the material shift from offline to online travel booking. This transformation led to many years of exciting growth for OTAs along with increased competition. In order to remain innovative and competitive, we made several strategic acquisitions, which materially expanded the breadth and depth of our Company. Much of our strategy leading up to the COVID-19 pandemic focused on our brands competing aggressively for share all the around the world, each with their own offerings and benefits. While this avoided potential disruptions from integrating the acquired brands, it also created certain complexities and inefficiencies over time. As a result, in 2020, we shifted to a platform operating model, which enabled us to deliver more scalable services and operate more efficiently. For example, we now manage our marketing investments holistically across the brand portfolio, allowing us to optimize results better, while running on a unified marketing technology platform has improved our performance marketing capabilities. More recently, we shifted to a more unified brand strategy within our Retail business where we have a combined team making decisions across all our brands. These changes were made in an effort to simplify and streamline our organization, improve our cost structure, and the operation of our business. Within our B2B business, on November 1, 2021, the sale of Egencia to American Express Global Business Travel ( GBT ) was completed. As part of the transaction, Expedia Group received a minority ownership position in the combined business and entered into a 10-year lodging supply agreement with GBT. Moreover, to help streamline activities and focus on our core businesses, we have closed, shut down or sold a number of businesses since the beginning of 2020, the largest of which was Egencia. Overall, we have made good progress on the foundational work to help streamline and simplify the organization over roughly the past two years and therefore can now increase our focus on further improving the travel experience, which was also the Company s underlying goal more than two decades ago. Market Opportunity and Business Strategy Expedia Group is one of the world s largest online travel companies, yet our gross bookings represent a single-digit percentage of total worldwide travel spending highlighting the size of our market opportunity. Phocuswright estimated global travel spending, inclusive of alternative accommodations at approximately $1.9 trillion in 2020 prior to the onset of COVID-19 with an increasing share booked through online channels each year. As we endeavor to power global travel for everyone, everywhere our focus is to: leverage our brand and supply strength, and our platform, to provide greater services and value to our travelers, suppliers and business partners, and generate sustained, profitable growth. Leverage Brand and Supply Strength to Power the Travel Ecosystem. We believe the strength of our brand portfolio and consistent enhancements to product and service offerings, combined with our global scale and broad-based supply, drive increasing value to customers and customer demand. With our significant global audience of travelers, and our deep and broad selection of travel products, we are also able to provide value to supply partners wanting to grow their business through a better understanding of travel retailing and consumer demand in addition to reaching consumers in markets beyond their reach. Our deep product and supply footprint allows us to tailor offerings to target different types of consumers and travel needs, employ geographic segmentation in markets around the world, and leverage brand differentiation, among other benefits. Recently, we shifted to more of a unified brand strategy with an increased focus on uniting our retail brands and teams under one centralized group, which we believe will enable us to drive further value to travelers. For example, in 2021, we announced plans to unify and expand our existing loyalty programs into one global rewards platform spanning all products and global brands. We also market to consumers through a variety of channels, including internet search, metasearch and social media websites, and having multiple brands appear in search results also increases the likelihood of attracting new visitors. Our portfolio of brands, operated and organized by reportable segment are as follows: Retail. Our Retail segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through recognized consumer brands that target a variety of customer segments and geographic regions with tailored offerings. Our portfolio of retail brands include: Brand Expedia . Brand Expedia is a leading full-service online travel brand with localized websites in a wide range of countries around the world offering a wide selection of travel products and services. Across the more than 25 years 2 Table of Contents that Brand Expedia has been helping people travel with confidence and ease, we have learned that travelers benefit when Brand Expedia continually improves and optimizes its offering, to ensure that travelers the world over can book the trip they need, in the manner they choose, at any point and save. Hotels.com. Hotels.com focuses on marketing lodging accommodations with a vast footprint of localized websites worldwide. Vrbo. Vrbo (previously HomeAway), operates an online marketplace for the alternative accommodations industry. The Vrbo portfolio includes the vacation rental website, Vrbo, which operates localized websites around the world as well as other regional brands. Vrbo's mission is to find every family the space they need to relax, reconnect, and enjoy precious time away together. Our other brands include Orbitz, Travelocity, ebookers and Wotif Group. These brands enable further connection to customers worldwide through targeted and unique marketing campaigns and access to various travel services and products. B2B. Our B2B segment encompasses our Expedia Business Services organization, which includes Expedia Partner Solutions. Expedia Partner Solutions partners with businesses in a wide spectrum of countries across a wide range of travel and non-travel verticals including corporate travel management, airlines, travel agents, online retailers and financial institutions, who market Expedia Group rates and availabilities to their travelers. Expedia Partner Solutions' partners can benefit from Expedia Group technology and supply in the way that best suits their business. This includes connecting to Expedia Group's travel content through Expedia Partner Solutions API, Rapid; adopting one of Expedia Partner Solutions customized white label or co-branded ecommerce template solutions Hotels.com for partners; or Expedia.com for partners; or a powerful agent booking tool, Expedia TAAP. Prior to its sale on November 1, 2021, our B2B segment also included Egencia, which was our full-service travel management company. trivago. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. trivago is our majority-owned hotel metasearch company, based in Dusseldorf, Germany. The online platform gives travelers access to price comparisons from hundreds of booking websites for millions of hotels and other accommodations. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is a leading global brand in hotel search and can be accessed worldwide. Subsequent to its initial public offering ("IPO") in December 2016, the company is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and trades under the symbol "TRVG." Leverage Our Platform to Deliver More Rapid Product Innovation Resulting in Better Traveler Experiences. During 2020, Expedia Group shifted to a platform operating model with more unified technology, product, data engineering and data science teams building services and capabilities that are leveraged across our business units to serve our end customers and provide value-add services to our travel suppliers. This model enables us to deliver more scalable services and operate more efficiently. All of our transaction-based businesses share and benefit from our platform infrastructure, including customer servicing and support, data centers, search capabilities and transaction processing functions, including payment processing and fraud operations. As we continue to evolve our platform infrastructure, our focus is on developing technical capabilities that support various travel products while using common applications and frameworks. We believe this strategy will enable us to: build in parallel because of simpler, standard architecture; ship products faster; create more innovative solutions; and achieve greater scale. And ultimately, we believe this will result in faster product innovation and therefore better traveler experiences, which is a bigger focus for the Company going forward. In addition, over time, as we enable domains around application development frameworks, we believe we can unlock additional platform service opportunities beyond our internal brands and other business travel partners. We provide 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week traveler sales and support by our virtual agent platform, telephone or e-mail. For purposes of operational flexibility, we use a combination of outsourced and in-house contact centers. Our contact centers are located in several countries throughout the world. We invested significantly in our contact center technologies, with the goal of improving customer experience and increasing the efficiency of our contact center agents, and have plans to continue reaping the benefits of these investments going forward. In addition, we have continued to invest in our conversation platform, which leverages technology and artificial intelligence to provide online customer service options and self-service capabilities to our customers through our websites and apps. Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers are housed in various locations, mainly in the United States, which have 24-hour monitoring and engineering support. These data centers have their own generators and multiple back-up systems. Significant amounts of our owned computer hardware for operating the websites are located at these facilities. Additionally, we are in the midst of a multi-year project to migrate products, data storage and functionality and significantly increase our utilization of public cloud computing services, such as Amazon Web Services ("AWS"). For some critical systems, 3 Table of Contents we have both production and disaster-recovery facilities. Our technology systems are subject to certain risks, which are described below in Part I,