Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2. Properties 17 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II 18 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 28 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 76 Item 9B. Other Information 77 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 77 PART III 78 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 78 Item 11. Executive Compensation 78 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 78 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 78 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 78 PART IV 79 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 79 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 79 SIGNATURES 82 2 Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information Certain information set forth in this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements concerning our plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events, future revenues or performance, capital expenditures, financing needs, plans or intentions relating to acquisitions and other information that is not historical information. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as believes, expects, estimates, may, will, should, anticipates, or intends or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. We may also make additional forward-looking statements from time to time. All such subsequent forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, by us or on our behalf, are also expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. All forward-looking statements, including without limitation, management s examination of historical operating trends and estimates of future earnings, are based upon our current expectations and various assumptions. Our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them, but there can be no assurance that management s expectations, beliefs and projections will result or be achieved. All forward-looking statements apply only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in or contemplated by this report. Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the risks referenced in Part I.