ITEM 1. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES Overview We are an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the acquisition, development, exploration and exploitation of unconventional, onshore oil and natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin in West Texas. This basin, which is one of the major producing basins in the United States, is characterized by an extensive production history, a favorable operating environment, mature infrastructure, long reserve life, multiple producing horizons, enhanced recovery potential and a large number of operators. We began operations in December 2007 with our acquisition of 4,174 net acres in the Permian Basin. At December 31, 2019 , our total acreage position in the Permian Basin was approximately 455,378 gross ( 382,337 net) acres, which consisted primarily of approximately 218,138 gross ( 195,461 net) acres in the Midland Basin and approximately 196,171 gross ( 155,296 net) acres in the Delaware Basin. In addition, our publicly traded subsidiary Viper Energy Partners LP, which we refer to as Viper, owns mineral interests underlying approximately 814,224 gross acres and 24,304 net royalty acres in the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford Shale. Approximately 50% of these net royalty acres are operated by us. We own Viper Energy Partners GP LLC, the general partner of Viper, which we refer to as Viper s general partner, and we own approximately 58% of the limited partner interest in Viper. Further, our publicly traded subsidiary Rattler Midstream Partners LP, which we refer to as Rattler, is focused on ownership, operation, development and acquisition of midstream infrastructure assets in the Midland and Delaware Basins of the Permian Basin. We own Rattler Midstream GP LLC, the general partner of Rattler, which we refer to as Rattler s general partner, and we own approximately 71% of the limited partner interest in Rattler. As of December 31, 2019 , Rattler owned and operated 867 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines, natural gas gathering pipelines and a fully integrated water system on acreage that overlays our seven core Midland and Delaware Basin development areas. To facilitate the transportation of produced water and hydrocarbon volumes away from the producing wellhead to ensuring the efficient operations of a crude oil or natural gas well, Rattler s midstream infrastructure includes a network of gathering pipelines that collect and transport crude oil, natural gas and produced water from our operations in the Midland and Delaware Basins. Our activities are primarily focused on horizontal development of the Spraberry and Wolfcamp formations of the Midland Basin and the Wolfcamp and Bone Spring formations of the Delaware Basin, both of which are part of the larger Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico. The Permian Basin is characterized by high oil and liquids rich natural gas, multiple vertical and horizontal target horizons, extensive production history, long-lived reserves and high drilling success rates. As of December 31, 2019 , our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves were 1,127,575 MBOE (which includes estimated reserves of 88,946 MBOE attributable to the mineral interests owned by Viper), based on reserve reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P., or Ryder Scott, our independent reserve engineers. Of these reserves, approximately 67% are classified as proved developed producing. Proved undeveloped, or PUD, reserves included in this estimate are from 477 gross ( 434 net) horizontal well locations in which we have a working interest, and 22 horizontal wells in which we own only a mineral interest through our subsidiary, Viper. As of December 31, 2019 , our estimated proved reserves were approximately 63% oil, 20% natural gas liquids and 17% natural gas. Based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data, we currently have approximately 12,310 gross ( 8,141 net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations in multiple horizons on our acreage at an assumed price of approximately $60.00 per Bbl WTI. We intend to continue to develop our reserves and increase production through development drilling and exploitation and exploration activities on this multi-year project inventory of identified potential drilling locations and through additional acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives, targeting oil-weighted reserves. Significant 2019 Transactions Divestiture of Certain Conventional and Non-Core Assets Acquired from Energen On May 23, 2019, we completed our divestiture of 6,589 net acres of certain non-core Permian assets, which we acquired in our November 2018 merger with Energen Corporation, which we refer to as the Energen merger, for an aggregate sale price of $37 million . 1 Table of Contents On July 1, 2019, we completed our divestiture of 103,750 net acres of certain conventional and non-core Permian assets, which we acquired in the Energen merger, for an aggregate sale price of $285 million . Drop-Down On October 1, 2019, we completed a transaction to divest certain mineral and royalty interests to Viper for approximately 18.3 million of Viper s newly-issued Class B units, approximately 18.3 million newly-issued units of Viper LLC with a fair value of $497 million and $190 million in cash, after giving effect to closing adjustments for net title benefits, which we refer to as the Drop-Down. The mineral and royalty interests divested in the Drop-Down represent approximately 5,490 net royalty acres across the Midland and Delaware Basins, of which over 95% are operated by us, and have an average net royalty interest of approximately 3.2% . Rattler s Initial Public Offering In May 2019, Rattler completed its initial public offering, which we refer to as the Rattler Offering, of an aggregate 43,700,000 common units at a price to the public of $17.50 per share, which common units are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol RTLR. Rattler received aggregate net proceeds of approximately $720 million from the sale of these common units, after deducting the underwriting discount and offering expenses. Our Business Strategy Our business strategy is to continue to profitably grow our business through the following: Grow production and reserves by developing our oil-rich resource base. We intend to drill and develop our acreage base in an effort to maximize its value and resource potential. Through the conversion of our undeveloped reserves to developed reserves, we will seek to increase our production, reserves and cash flow while generating favorable returns on invested capital. Focus on increasing hydrocarbon recovery through horizontal development of stacked horizons. We have been developing multiple pay intervals in the Permian Basin through horizontal drilling and believe that there are opportunities to target additional intervals throughout the stratigraphic column. Our initial horizontal wells were completed in 2012, and since then we have been an active horizontal driller in the basin. We believe that our significant experience drilling, completing and operating horizontal wells will allow us to efficiently develop our remaining inventory and ultimately target other horizons that have limited development to date. The following table presents horizontal wells in which we have an interest in as of December 31, 2019 : Basin Number of Horizontal Wells Midland 1,125 Delaware 645 Total (1) 1,770 (1) Of these 1,770 total horizontal wells, we are the operator of 1,489 producing wells and have a non-operated working interest in 281 additional wells. 2 Table of Contents The following table presents the average number of days in which we were able to drill our horizontal wells to total depth specified below during the year ended December 31, 2019 : Average Days to Total Depth Midland Basin 7,500 foot lateral 14 10,000 foot lateral 15 13,000 foot lateral 17 Delaware Basin 7,500 foot lateral 20 10,000 foot lateral 25 13,000 foot lateral 27 Further advances in drilling and completion technology may result in economic development of zones that are not currently viable. Leverage our experience operating in the Permian Basin. Our executive team, which has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person and significant experience in the Permian Basin, intends to continue to seek ways to maximize hydrocarbon recovery by refining and enhancing our drilling and completion techniques. Our focus on efficient drilling and completion techniques is an important part of the continuous drilling program we have planned for our significant inventory of identified potential drilling locations. We believe that the experience of our executive team in deviated and horizontal drilling and completions has helped reduce the execution risk normally associated with these complex well paths. In addition, our completion techniques are continually evolving as we evaluate and implement hydraulic fracturing practices that have and are expected to continue to increase recovery and reduce completion costs. Our executive team regularly evaluates our operating results against those of other operators in the area in an effort to benchmark our performance against the best performing operators and evaluate and adopt best practices. Enhance returns through our low cost development strategy of resource conversion, capital allocation and continued improvements in operational and cost efficiencies. Our acreage position is generally in contiguous blocks which allows us to develop this acreage efficiently with a manufacturing strategy that takes advantage of economies of scale and uses centralized production and fluid handling facilities. We are the operator of approximately 97% of our acreage. This operational control allows us to manage more efficiently the pace of development activities and the gathering and marketing of our production and control operating costs and technical applications, including horizontal development. Our average 84% working interest in our acreage allows us to realize the majority of the benefits of these activities and cost efficiencies. Pursue strategic acquisitions with substantial resource potential. We have a proven history of acquiring leasehold positions in the Permian Basin that have substantial oil-weighted resource potential. Our executive team, with its extensive experience in the Permian Basin, has what we believe is a competitive advantage in identifying acquisition targets and a proven ability to evaluate resource potential. We regularly review acquisition opportunities and intend to pursue acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial targets. Maintain financial flexibility. We seek to maintain a conservative financial position. As of December 31, 2019 , our borrowing base was set at $2.0 billion and we had $1.99 billion available for borrowing. As of December 31, 2019 , Viper LLC had $97 million in outstanding borrowings, and $678 million available for borrowing, under its revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2019 , Rattler LLC had $424 million in outstanding borrowings, and $176 million available for borrowing, under its revolving credit facility. Our Strengths We believe that the following strengths will help us achieve our business goals: Oil rich resource base in one of North America s leading resource plays. All of our leasehold acreage is located in one of the most prolific oil plays in North America, the Permian Basin in West Texas. The majority of our current properties are well positioned in the core of the Permian Basin. Our production for the year ended December 31, 2019 was approximately 66% oil, 18% natural gas liquids and 16% natural gas. As of December 31, 2019 , our 3 Table of Contents estimated net proved reserves were comprised of approximately 63% oil, 20% natural gas liquids and 17% natural gas. Multi-year drilling inventory in one of North America s leading oil resource plays. We have identified a multi-year inventory of potential drilling locations for our oil-weighted reserves that we believe provides attractive growth and return opportunities. At an assumed price of approximately $60.00 per Bbl WTI, we currently have approximately 12,310 gross ( 8,141 net) identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations on our acreage based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data. These gross identified economic potential horizontal locations have an average lateral length of approximately 7,975 feet, with the actual length depending on lease geometry and other considerations. These locations exist across most of our acreage blocks and in multiple horizons. The ultimate inter-well spacing may vary from these distances due to different factors, which would result in a higher or lower location count. In addition, we have approximately 3,413 square miles of proprietary 3-D seismic data covering our acreage. This data facilitates the evaluation of our existing drilling inventory and provides insight into future development activity, including additional horizontal drilling opportunities and strategic leasehold acquisitions. The following table presents the number of identified economic potential horizontal drilling locations by basin: Number of Identified Economic Potential Horizontal Drilling Locations Midland Basin Lower Spraberry (1) 1,231 Middle Spraberry (2) 1,151 Wolfcamp A (3) 1,205 Wolfcamp B (4) 1,213 Other 2,237 Total Midland Basin 7,037 Delaware Basin 2nd Bone Springs (5) 957 3rd Bone Springs (5) 1,177 Wolfcamp A (6) 944 Wolfcamp B (6) 1,050 Other 1,145 Total Delaware Basin 5,273 Total 12,310 (1) Our current location count is based on 660 foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties. (2) Our current location count is based on 660 foot spacing in Midland, Martin and northeast Andrews counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties. (3) Our current location count is based on 660 foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties. (4) Our current location count in based on 660 foot to 880 foot spacing in Midland, Martin, northeast Andrews, Howard and Glasscock counties, depending on the prospect area and 880 foot spacing in all other counties. (5) Our current location count is based on 880 foot to 1,320 foot spacing. (6) Our current location count is based on 880 foot to 1,056 foot spacing. Experienced, incentivized and proven management team. Our executive team has an average of over 25 years of industry experience per person, most of which is focused on resource play development. This team has a proven track record of executing on multi-rig development drilling programs and extensive experience in the Permian Basin. In addition, our executive team has significant experience with both drilling and completing horizontal wells in addition to horizontal well reservoir and geologic expertise, which is of strategic importance as we expand our horizontal drilling activity. Prior to joining us, our Chief Executive Officer held management positions at Apache Corporation, Laredo Petroleum Holdings, Inc. and Burlington Resources. 4 Table of Contents Favorable operating environment. We have focused our drilling and development operations in the Permian Basin, one of the longest operating hydrocarbon basins in the United States, with a long and well-established production history and developed infrastructure. We believe that the geological and regulatory environment of the Permian Basin is more stable and predictable, and that we are faced with less operational risks in the Permian Basin as compared to emerging hydrocarbon basins. High degree of operational control. We are the operator of approximately 97% of our Permian Basin acreage. This operating control allows us to better execute on our strategies of enhancing returns through operational and cost efficiencies and increasing ultimate hydrocarbon recovery by seeking to continually improve our drilling techniques, completion methodologies and reservoir evaluation processes. Additionally, as the operator of substantially all of our acreage, we retain the ability to increase or decrease our capital expenditure program based on commodity price outlooks. This operating control also enables us to obtain data needed for efficient exploration of horizontal prospects. Access to Midstream Infrastructure and Gathering and Transportation Pipelines . Through our publicly traded subsidiary Rattler, we have secured access to midstream infrastructure and crude oil gathering and transportation pipelines tailored to our expected production growth ramp in order to allow us the operational flexibility to execute on our growth plan. Rattler is the primary provider of midstream services to us with an acreage dedication that spans a total of approximately 397,000 gross acres across all of Rattler s service lines and over the core of the Midland and Delaware Basins. Our Properties Location and Land Our total acreage position in the Permian Basin was approximately 455,378 gross ( 382,337 net) acres, which consisted primarily of approximately 218,138 gross ( 195,461 net) acres in the Midland Basin and approximately 196,171 gross ( 155,296 net) acres in the Delaware Basin at December 31, 2019 . We are the operator of approximately 97% of this Permian Basin acreage. In addition, our publicly traded subsidiary Viper owns mineral interests underlying approximately 814,224 gross acres and 24,304 net royalty acres in the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford Shale. Approximately 50% of these net royalty acres are operated by us. Further, our subsidiary Rattler is focused on ownership, operation, development and acquisition of the midstream infrastructure assets in the Midland and Delaware Basins of the Permian Basin. As of December 31, 2019, Rattler owned and operated 867 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines, natural gas gathering pipelines and a fully integrated water system on acreage that overlays our seven core Midland and Delaware Basin development areas. To facilitate the transportation of water and hydrocarbon volumes away from the producing wellhead to ensuring the efficient operations of a crude oil or natural gas well, Rattler s midstream infrastructure includes a network of gathering pipelines that collect and transport crude oil, natural gas and produced water from our operations in the Midland and Delaware Basins. As of December 31, 2019, Rattler also owned (i) a 10% equity interest in EPIC Crude Holdings LP, which is building a long-haul crude oil pipeline from the Permian Basin and the Eagle Ford Shale to Corpus Christi, Texas that, upon completion, will be capable of transporting approximately 590,000 Bbl/d and, with installation of additional pumps and storage, up to approximately 900,000 Bbl/d, which we refer to as the EPIC pipeline; (ii) a 10% equity interest in Gray Oak Pipeline, LLC, which is building a long-haul crude oil pipeline that, upon completion, will be capable for transporting 900,000 Bbl/d from the Permian Basin and the Eagle Ford Shale to points alongside the Texas Gulf Coast, including a marine terminal connection in Corpus Christi, Texas, which we refer to as the Gray Oak pipeline; (iii) a 4% equity interest in Wink to Webster Pipeline LLC, which is developing a crude oil pipeline that, upon completion, will be capable of transporting approximately 1,000,000 Bbl/d from origin points at Wink and Midland in the Permian Basin for delivery to multiple Houston area locations, (iv) a 60% equity interest in OMOG JV LLC, a newly formed joint venture entity that acquired Reliance Midstream LLC, which operates over 230 miles of crude oil gathering and regional transportation pipelines and approximately 200,000 barrels of crude oil storage in Midland, Martin, Andrews and Ector Counties, Texas, and (v) a 50% equity interest in Amarillo Rattler LLC, which will operate the Yellow Rose gas gathering and processing system with estimated total capacity of 40,000 Mcf/d and over 84 miles of gathering and regional transportation pipelines in Dawson, Martin and Andrews Counties, Texas. Each of the Epic and Gray Oak pipelines began interim operations in the second half of 2019, and we expect both to begin full commercial operations in the second quarter of 2020. The Wink to Webster project is expected to begin commercial operations in first half of 2021. We anticipate that the Yellow Rose system will commence full commercial operations in the middle of 2021. The Permian Basin area covers a significant portion of western Texas and eastern New Mexico and is considered one of the major producing basins in the United States. 5 Table of Contents Area History Our proved reserves are located in the Permian Basin of West Texas, in particular in the Clearfork, Spraberry, Bone Spring, Wolfcamp, Cline, Strawn and Atoka formations. The Spraberry play was initiated with production from several new field discoveries in the late 1940s and early 1950s. It was eventually recognized that a regional productive trend was present, as fields were extended and coalesced over a broad area in the central Midland Basin. Development in the Spraberry play was sporadic over the next several decades due to typically low productive rate wells, with economics being dependent on oil prices and drilling costs. The Wolfcamp formation is a long-established reservoir in West Texas, first found in the 1950s as wells aiming for deeper targets occasionally intersected slump blocks or debris flows with good reservoir properties. Exploration using 2-D seismic data located additional fields, but it was not until the use of 3-D seismic data in the 1990s that the greater extent of the Wolfcamp formation was revealed. The additional potential of the shales within this formation as reservoir rather than just source rocks was not recognized until very recently. During the late 1990s, Atlantic Richfield Company, or Arco, began a drilling program targeting the base of the Spraberry formation at 10,000 feet, with an additional 200 to 300 feet drilled to produce from the upper portion of the Wolfcamp formation. Henry Petroleum, a private firm, owned interests in the Pegasus field in Midland and Upton counties. While drilling in the same area as the Arco project, Henry Petroleum decided to drill completely through the Wolfcamp section. Henry Petroleum mapped the trend and began acquiring acreage and drilling wells using multiple slick-water fracturing treatments across the entire Wolfcamp interval. In 2005, former members of Henry Petroleum s Wolfcamp team formed their own private company, ExL Petroleum, and began replicating Henry Petroleum s program. After ExL had drilled 32 productive Wolfcamp/Spraberry wells through late 2007, they monetized a portion of their acreage position, which led to the acquisition that enabled us to begin our participation in this play. Recent advancements in enhanced recovery techniques and horizontal drilling continue to make this play attractive to the oil and gas industry. By mid-2010, approximately half of the rigs active in the Permian Basin were drilling wells in the Wolfberry play. Since then we and most other operators are almost exclusively drilling horizontal wells in the development of unconventional reservoirs in the Permian Basin. As of December 31, 2019 , we held working interests in 2,656 gross ( 2,202 net) producing wells and only royalty interests in 4,161 additional wells. Geology The Greater Permian Basin formed as an area of rapid Pennsylvanian-Permian subsidence in response to dynamic structural influence of the Marathon Uplift and Ancestral Rockies. It is one of the most productive sedimentary basins in the U.S., with established oil and gas production from several stacked reservoirs of varying age ranges, most notably Permian aged sediments. In particular, the Permian aged Wolfcamp and Spraberry/Bone Spring Formations have been heavily targeted for several decades. First, through vertical comingling of these zones and, more recently, through horizontal exploitation of each individual horizon. Prior to deposition of Wolfcamp and Spraberry/Bone Spring Formations, the area of the present-day Permian Basin was a continuous sedimentary feature called the Tabosa Basin. During this time, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian and Mississippian sediments were laid down in a primarily open marine, shelf setting. However, some time frames saw more restrictive settings that were conducive to the deposition of organically rich mudstone such as the Devonian Woodford and Mississippian Barnett/Meramec. These formations are important sources and, more recently, reservoirs within the present-day Greater Permian Basin. The Spraberry/Bone Spring was deposited as siliciclastic and carbonate turbidites and debris flows along with pelagic mudstones in a deep-water, basinal environment, while the Wolfcamp reservoirs consist of debris-flow, grain-flow and fine-grained pelagic sediments, which were also deposited in a basinal setting. The best carbonate reservoirs within the Wolfcamp and Spraberry/Bone Spring are generally found in close proximity to the Central Basin Platform, while mudstone reservoirs thicken basin-ward, away from the Central Basin Platform. The mudstone within these reservoirs is organically rich, which when buried to sufficient depth for thermal maturation, became the source of the hydrocarbons found both within the mudstones themselves and in the interbedded conventional clastic and carbonate reservoirs. Due to this complexity, the Wolfcamp and Spraberry/Bone Spring intervals are a hybrid reservoir system that contains characteristics of both unconventional and conventional reservoirs. We have successfully developed several hybrid reservoir intervals within the Clearfork, Spraberry/Bone Spring, Wolfcamp and Barnett/Meramec formations since we began horizontal drilling in 2012. The mudstones and some clastics exhibit low permeabilities which necessitate the need for hydraulic fracture stimulation to unlock the vast storage of hydrocarbons in these targets. 6 Table of Contents We possess, or are in the process of acquiring, 3-D seismic data over substantially all of our major asset areas. Our extensive geophysical database currently includes approximately 3,413 square miles of 3-D data. This data will continue to be utilized in the development of our horizontal drilling program and identification of additional resource to be exploited. Production Status During the year ended December 31, 2019 , net production from our Permian Basin acreage was 103,285 MBOE, or an average of 282,972 BOE/d, of which approximately 66% was oil, 18% was natural gas liquids and 16% was natural gas. Facilities Our oil and natural gas processing facilities are typical of those found in the Permian Basin. Our facilities located at well locations include storage tank batteries, oil/natural gas/water separation equipment and pumping units. Our publicly traded subsidiary Rattler owns the Fasken Center which has over 421,000 net rentable square feet within its two office towers and associated assets in Midland, Texas. We, Viper and Rattler are headquartered at the Fasken Center. We and unrelated third parties lease office space within the Fasken Center from Rattler under long-term lease agreements. We and our subsidiaries also own field offices and related facilities in Midland and Reeves Counties, Texas. We believe that these facilities are adequate for our current operations. Recent and Future Activity During 2020 , we expect to complete an estimated 320 to 360 gross ( 288 to 324 net) operated horizontal wells on our acreage. We currently estimate that our capital expenditures in 2020 for drilling and infrastructure will be between $2.8 billion and $3.0 billion , consisting of $2.45 billion to $2.6 billion for horizontal drilling and completions including non-operated activity, $200 million to $225 million for midstream investments, excluding joint venture investments, and $150 million to $175 million will be spent on infrastructure and other expenditures, excluding the cost of any leasehold and mineral interest acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we drilled 330 gross ( 296 net) and completed 317 gross ( 289 net) operated horizontal wells. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , our capital expenditures for drilling, completing and equipping wells were $2.6 billion . In addition, we spent $364 million for oil and gas midstream and infrastructure and $776 million for leasehold and mineral rights acquisitions. We are operating 23 drilling rigs now including two rigs drilling produced water disposal wells and currently intend to operate between 20 and 23 rigs on average in 2020. We will continue monitoring the ongoing commodity price environment and expect to retain the financial flexibility to adjust our drilling and completion plans in response to market conditions. With our current development plan, we expect to continue our strong PUD conversion ratio in 2020 by converting an estimated 35% of our PUDs to a proved developed category, and develop approximately 66% of the consolidated 2019 year-end PUD reserves by the end of 2021. Oil and Natural Gas Data Proved Reserves Evaluation and Review of Reserves Our historical reserve estimates as of December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 were prepared by Ryder Scott with respect to our assets and those of Viper. Ryder Scott is an independent petroleum engineering firm. The technical persons responsible for preparing our proved reserve estimates meet the requirements with regards to qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reser