Item 1. Business and Properties, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. These risks are not the only risks we face. We could also face additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and the trading price of our shares could decline. The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results: Risks Related to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business Market conditions and particularly volatility in prices for oil and natural gas may continue to adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, profitability, growth, production and the present value of our estimated reserves. Our commodity price derivatives could result in financial losses, may fail to protect us from declines in commodity prices, prevent us from fully benefiting from commodity price increases and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty credit risk. The IRA and other risks relating to climate change could accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy and could impose new costs on our operations that may have a material and adverse effect on us. Climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives may have other adverse effects, such as a greater potential for governmental investigations or litigation. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all to fund our acquisitions or development activities, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves and future production. Our failure to successfully identify, complete and integrate pending and future acquisitions of properties or businesses could reduce our earnings, and title defects in the properties in which we invest may lead to losses. Our identified potential drilling locations are susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. If production from our Permian Basin acreage decreases, we may fail to meet our obligations to deliver specified quantities of oil under our oil purchase contract, which may adversely affect our operations. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations, or loss of one or more of our significant purchasers, may adversely affect our financial results. Our method of accounting for investments in oil and natural gas properties may result in impairment of asset value. 22 Table of Contents Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. We are vulnerable to risks associated with our primary operations concentrated in a single geographic area. If transportation or other facilities, certain of which we do not control, or rigs, equipment, raw materials, oil services or personnel are unavailable, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced. Our operations are subject to various governmental laws and regulations which require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive and may impose restrictions on our operations. U.S. tax legislation, including recently adopted IRA, may negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that may result in a total loss of investment and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business and could adversely affect our business. A cyber incident could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness, and we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Implementing our capital programs may require, under some circumstances, an increase in our total leverage through additional debt issuances, and any significant reduction in availability under our revolving credit facility or inability to otherwise obtain financing for our capital programs could require us to curtail our capital expenditures. Restrictive covenants in certain of our existing and future debt instruments may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. We depend on our subsidiaries for dividends and other payments. If we experience liquidity concerns, we could face a downgrade in our debt ratings which could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, current or future financings or trade credit. Borrowings under our and Viper LLC s revolving credit facilities expose us to interest rate risk. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The corporate opportunity provisions in our certificate of incorporation could enable affiliates of ours to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. The declaration of dividends and any repurchases of our common stock are each within the discretion of our board of directors, and there is no guarantee that we will pay any dividends on or repurchases of our common stock in the future or at levels anticipated by our stockholders. A change of control could limit our use of net operating losses. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law make it more difficult to effect a change in control of the company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Pending Endeavor Acquisition Our ability to complete the Endeavor Acquisition is subject to various closing conditions, including approval by our stockholders and regulatory clearance, which may impose conditions that could adversely affect us or cause the Endeavor Acquisition not to be completed. The termination of the Merger Agreement could negatively impact our business or result in our having to pay a termination fee. Whether or not the Endeavor Acquisition is completed, the announcement and pendency of the Endeavor Acquisition could cause disruptions in our business. Combining our business with Endeavor s may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected and the combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Endeavor Acquisition. We also expect to incur significant additional indebtedness in connection with the Endeavor Acquisition, which indebtedness may limit our operating or financial flexibility relative to our current position and make it difficult to satisfy our obligations with respect to our other indebtedness. The market value of our common stock could decline if large amounts of our common stock are sold following the Endeavor Acquisition. Following the closing of the Endeavor Acquisition, the Endeavor Stockholders will have the ability to significantly influence our business, and their interest in our business may be different from that of other stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business Market conditions for oil and natural gas, and particularly volatility in prices for oil and natural gas, have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our revenue, cash flows, profitability, growth, production and the present value of our estimated reserves. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend significantly upon the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; the level of prices and expectations about future prices of oil and natural gas; the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the price and quantity of foreign imports; political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia; the potential impact of the war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas War on the global energy markets and macroeconomic conditions; the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including U.S. military operations in the Middle East; the ability of members of the OPEC+ to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts; the level of consumer product demand; extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters; risks associated with operating drilling rigs; technological advances affecting energy consumption; the price and availability of alternative fuels; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, including the Biden Administration s energy and environmental policies; global or national health concerns, including the outbreak of pandemic or contagious disease; the proximity, cost, availability and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and overall domestic and global economic conditions. Our results of operations may also be adversely impacted by any future government rule, regulation or order that may impose production limits, as well as pipeline capacity and storage constraints, in the Permian Basin where we operate. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. During 2023, 2022 and 2021, NYMEX WTI prices ranged from $47.62 to $123.70 per Bbl and the NYMEX Henry Hub price of natural gas ranged from $1.99 to $9.68 per MMBtu. If the prices of oil and natural gas decline, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves may be materially and adversely affected. We expect to maintain our fourth quarter 2023 production levels in 2024. We cannot reasonably predict whether production levels will remain at current levels or the full extent of the impact of the events above and any subsequent recovery may have on our industry and our business. If commodity prices fall below current levels, we may be required to record impairments in future periods and such impairments could be material. Further, if commodity prices decrease, our production, proved reserves and cash flows will be adversely impacted. Reductions in our reserves could also negatively impact the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility, which could limit our liquidity and ability to conduct additional exploration and development activities. Our commodity price derivatives could result in financial losses, may fail to protect us from declines in commodity prices, prevent us from fully benefiting from commodity price increases and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty credit risk. We use commodity price derivatives, including swaps, basis swaps, swaptions, roll hedges, costless collars, puts and basis puts, to reduce price volatility associated with certain of our oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas sales. Currently, we have hedged a portion of our estimated 2024 and 2025 production. To the extent that the prices of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas remain at current levels or decline further, we may not be able to economically hedge additional future production at the same level as our current commodity price derivatives, and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. While these commodity price derivatives are intended to mitigate risk from commodity price volatility, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of increases in the prices of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas above the price levels of the commodity price derivatives used to manage price risk. At settlement, market prices for commodities may exceed the contract prices in our commodity price derivatives agreements, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments to our counterparties. Further, by using commodity derivative instruments, we expose ourselves to credit risk if we are in a positive position at contract settlement and the counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. We do not require collateral from our counterparties. 24 Table of Contents For additional information regarding our outstanding derivative contracts as of December 31, 2023, see Note 12 Derivatives in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Commodity Price Risk of this report. The IRA and other risks relating to climate change could accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy and could impose new costs on our operations that may have a material and adverse effect on us. Governmental and regulatory bodies, investors, consumers, industry and other stakeholders have been increasingly focused on climate change matters in recent years. This focus, together with changes in consumer and industrial/commercial behavior, preferences and attitudes with respect to the generation and consumption of energy, the use of hydrocarbons, and the use of products manufactured with, or powered by, hydrocarbons, may result in; (i) the enactment of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives by governments, investors, and other companies, including alternative energy or zero carbon requirements and fuel or energy conservation measures; (ii) technological advances with respect to the generation, transmission, storage and consumption of energy (including advances in wind, solar and hydrogen power, as well as battery technology); (iii) increased availability of, and increased demand from consumers and industry for, energy sources other than oil and natural gas (including wind, solar, nuclear, and geothermal sources as well as electric vehicles); and (iv) development of, and increased demand from consumers and industry for, lower-emission products and services (including electric vehicles and renewable residential and commercial power supplies) as well as more efficient products and services. Any of these developments may reduce the demand for products manufactured with (or powered by) hydrocarbons and the demand for, and in turn the prices of, the oil and natural gas that we produce and sell, which would likely have a material adverse impact on us. If any of these developments reduce the desirability of participating in the oilfield services, midstream or downstream portions of the oil and gas industry, then these developments may also reduce the availability to us of necessary third-party services and facilities that we rely on, which could increase our operational costs and adversely affect our ability to explore for, produce, transport and process oil and natural gas and successfully carry out our business and financial strategy. The enactment of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives may also result in increases in our compliance costs and other operating costs and have other adverse effects, such as a greater potential for governmental investigations or litigation. In recent years, federal, state and local governments have taken steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. For example, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and the IRA include billions of dollars in incentives for the development of renewable energy, clean hydrogen, clean fuels, electric vehicles, investments in advanced biofuels and supporting infrastructure and carbon capture and sequestration. Also, the EPA has proposed ambitious rules to reduce harmful air pollutant emissions, including greenhouse gases, from light-, medium-, and heavy-duty vehicles beginning in model year 2027. These incentives and regulations could accelerate the transition of the economy away from the use of fossil fuels towards lower- or zero-carbon emissions alternatives, which could decrease demand for, and in turn the prices of, the oil and natural gas that we produce and sell and adversely impact our business. In addition, the IRA imposes the first ever federal fee on the emission of greenhouse gases through a methane emissions charge, which could increase our operating costs and thereby adversely impact our business, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to potentially reducing demand for our oil and natural gas and potentially reducing the availability of oilfield services and midstream and downstream customers, any of these developments may also create reputational risks associated with the exploration for, and production of, hydrocarbons, which may adversely affect the availability and cost to us of capital. For example, a number of prominent investors have publicly announced their intention to no longer invest in the oil and gas sector in response to concerns related to climate change, and other financial institutions and investors may decide to do likewise in the future. If financial institutions and other investors refuse to invest in or provide capital to the oil and gas sector in the future because of these reputational risks, that could result in capital being unavailable to us, or only at significantly increased costs. For further discussion regarding the risks to us of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives, please see the section entitled Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties Regulation Climate Change of this report. 25 Table of Contents Continuing political and social concerns relating to climate change may result in significant litigation and related expenses. Increasing attention to global climate change has resulted in increased investor attention and an increased risk of public and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect us. For example, shareholder activism has recently been increasing in our industry, and shareholders may attempt to effect changes to our business or governance to deal with climate change-related issues, whether by shareholder proposals, public campaigns, proxy solicitations or otherwise, which may result in significant management distraction and potentially significant expense. Additionally, cities, counties, and other governmental entities in several states in the U.S. have filed lawsuits against energy companies seeking damages allegedly associated with climate change. Similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. If any such lawsuits were to be filed against us, we could incur substantial legal defense costs and, if any such litigation were adversely determined, we could incur substantial damages. Any of these climate change-related litigation risks could result in unexpected costs, negative sentiments about our company, disruptions in our operations, and increases to our operating expenses, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our targets related to sustainability and emissions reduction initiatives, including our public statements and disclosures regarding them, may expose us to numerous risks. We have developed, and will continue to develop, targets related to our environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) initiatives, including our emissions reduction targets and strategy. Statements in this and other reports we file with the SEC and other public statements related to these initiatives reflect our current plans and expectations and are not a guarantee the targets will be achieved or achieved on the currently anticipated timeline. Our ability to achieve our ESG targets, including emissions reductions, is subject to numerous factors and conditions, some of which are outside of our control, and failure to achieve our announced targets or comply with ethical, environmental or other standards, including reporting standards, may expose us to government enforcement actions or private litigation and adversely impact our business. Further, our continuing efforts to research, establish, accomplish and accurately report on these targets may create additional operational risks and expenses and expose us to reputational, legal and other risks. ESG expectations, including both the matters in focus and the management of such matters, continue to evolve rapidly. For example, in addition to climate change, there is increasing attention on topics such as diversity and inclusion, human rights, and human and natural capital, in companies own operations as well as their supply chains. In addition, perspectives on the efficacy of ESG considerations continue to evolve, and we cannot currently predict how regulators , investors and other stakeholders views on ESG matters may affect the regulatory and investment landscape and affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not, or are perceived to not, adapt or comply with investor or stakeholder expectations and standards on ESG matters, we may suffer from reputational damage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any reputational damage associated with ESG factors may also adversely impact our ability to recruit and retain employees and customers. In March 2022, the SEC proposed new rules relating to the disclosure of a range of climate-related risks and other information. To the extent this rule is finalized as proposed, we and/or our customers could incur increased costs related to the assessment and disclosure of climate-related information. Enhanced climate disclosure requirements could also accelerate any trend by certain stakeholders and capital providers to restrict or seek more stringent conditions with respect to their financing of certain carbon intensive sectors. Investor and regulatory focus on ESG matters continues to increase. If our ESG initiatives do not meet our investors or other stakeholders evolving expectations and standards, investment in our stock may be viewed as less attractive and our reputation, contractual, employment and other business relationships may be adversely impacted. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents A significant portion of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, and that acreage may not ultimately be developed or become commercially productive, which could cause us to lose rights under our leases as well as have a material adverse effect on our oil and natural gas reserves and future production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income. A significant portion of our net leasehold acreage is undeveloped, or acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. In addition, many of our oil and natural gas leases require us to drill wells that are commercially productive and to maintain the production in paying quantities, and if we are unsuccessful in drilling such wells and maintaining such production, we could lose our rights under such leases. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our future cash flow and income are highly dependent on successfully developing our undeveloped leasehold acreage. Our development and exploration operations and our ability to complete acquisitions require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. In 2023, our total capital expenditures, including expenditures for drilling, completion, infrastructure and additions to midstream assets, were approximately $2.7 billion. Our 2024 capital budget for drilling, completion and infrastructure, including investments in water disposal infrastructure and gathering line projects, is currently estimated to be approximately $2.30 billion to $2.55 billion, representing a decrease of 10% from our 2023 capital expenditures. Since completing our initial public offering in October 2012, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with borrowings under our revolving credit facility, cash generated by operations and the net proceeds from public offerings of our common stock and our senior notes. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations, while future acquisitions may also be funded from operations as well as proceeds from offerings of our debt and equity securities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including our proved reserves; the volume of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold; our ability to acquire, locate and produce economically new reserves; and our ability to borrow under our credit facility. We cannot assure you that our operations and other capital resources will provide cash in sufficient amounts to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures. Further, our actual capital expenditures in 2024 could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount of capital we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include traditional reserve base borrowings, debt financing, joint venture partnerships, production payment financings, sales of assets, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements or our costs of capital increase, we may be required to curtail our operations relating to the exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, or we may be otherwise unable to implement our development plan, complete acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. In addition, a delay in or the failure to complete proposed or future infrastructure projects could delay or eliminate potential efficiencies and related cost savings. Our success depends on finding, developing or acquiring additional reserves. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. To increase reserves and production, we undertake development, exploration and other replacement activities or use third parties to accomplish these activities. If we are unable to replace our current production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Furthermore, although our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our finding and development costs for additional reserves could also increase. 27 Table of Contents Our failure to successfully identify, complete and integrate pending and future acquisitions of properties or businesses could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including recoverable reserves, future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials, operating costs, and potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain, and we may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, including title defects or environmental issues, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar wi