Item 1. Business ; Item 1A. Risk Factors ; Item 1C. Cybersecurity ; Item 2. Properties ; Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities ; the Trends Affecting Our Business, Business Optimization and Realignment Costs, Income Taxes, Outlook, Reportable Segments, Liquidity Outlook, and Critical Accounting Estimates sections of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition ; and the Description of Business Segments and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Long-Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements, Leases, Income Taxes, Retirement Plans, Business Segments and Disaggregated Revenue, Commitments, and Contingencies notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, plans, objectives, future performance, and business. Forward-looking statements include those preceded by, followed by, or that include the words will, may, could, would, should, believes, expects, forecasts, anticipates, plans, estimates, targets, projects, intends, or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated (expressed or implied) by such forward-looking statements, because of, among other things, the risk factors identified above and the other risks and uncertainties you can find in our press releases and other Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) filings. As a result of these and other factors, no assurance can be given as to our future results and achievements. Accordingly, a forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances and those future events or circumstances may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are under no obligation, and we expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. TABLE OF CONTENTS Page PART I ITEM 1. Business 2