Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 29 Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. [Reserved] 34 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 85 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 85 Item 9B. Other Information 86 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 87 Item 11. Executive Compensation 88 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 88 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 89 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 93 Signatures 94 1 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the PSLRA ). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, expenses, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, share repurchases, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, research and development, and the sufficiency of capital resources; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements, including those related to economic conditions; (iv) statements regarding results of business combinations or strategic divestitures; (v) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators, including the proportion of revenues generated from international as opposed to domestic customers; and (vi) statements regarding products and services, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in use by customers. Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, targeted, should, potential, goals, strategy, outlook, plan, estimated, will, variations of these terms and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, below. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business GENERAL Fair Isaac Corporation (NYSE: FICO) (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company, which may also be referred to in this report as we, us, our, and FICO ) is a leading applied analytics company. We were founded in 1956 on the premise that data, used intelligently, can improve business decisions. Today, FICO s software and the widely used FICO Score operationalize analytics, enabling thousands of businesses in more than 80 countries to uncover new opportunities, make timely decisions that matter, and execute them at scale. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, automotive lenders, consumer reporting agencies, public agencies, and organizations in other industries. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to access and understand their FICO Scores the standard measure in the United States ( U.S. ) of consumer credit risk empowering them to increase financial literacy and manage their financial health. More information about us can be found on our website, www.fico.com. We make our Annual Reports on Forms 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q, and Current Reports on Forms 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). References to our website address in this report do not constitute an incorporation by reference. Information on our website is not part of this report. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our business consists of two operating segments: Scores and Software. Our Scores segment includes our business-to-business ( B2B ) scoring solutions and services which give our clients access to predictive credit and other scores that can be easily integrated into their transaction streams and decision-making processes. This segment also includes our business-to-consumer ( B2C ) scoring solutions, including our myFICO.com subscription offerings. Our Software segment includes pre-configured analytic and decision management solutions designed for a specific type of business need or process such as account origination, customer management, customer engagement, fraud detection, and marketing as well as associated professional services. This segment also includes FICO Platform, a modular software offering designed to support advanced analytic and decision use cases, as well as stand-alone analytic and decisioning software that can be configured by our customers to address a wide variety of business use cases. Our offerings are available to our customers as software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) or as on-premises software. Scores Our B2B scoring solutions include the FICO Score, which is the standard measure of consumer credit risk in the U.S. It is used in most U.S. credit decisions, by nearly all major banks, credit card issuers, mortgage lenders, and auto loan originators. Our B2B scoring solutions are primarily distributed through major consumer reporting agencies worldwide. Our B2C scores are sold directly to consumers through our myFICO.com website and other direct-to-consumer channels. The FICO Score is a three-digit number ranging from 300-850. Our proprietary analytic algorithms are applied to credit data collected and maintained by the three U.S. national consumer reporting agencies Experian, TransUnion and Equifax to produce standard scores that are used across the credit lifecycle, including in origination, account management and consumer marketing. Users of our scores generally pay the consumer reporting agencies a fee for each individual score generated by our algorithms, and the consumer reporting agencies pay an associated fee to us. Except for product development using de-personalized data, FICO does not collect or store the consumer credit data used in the calculation of our scores, and in most cases, we do not sell our scores directly to lenders or other end-users. Since the introduction of the FICO Score in the U.S. in 1989, we have regularly updated the score to take advantage of newly available data and enhanced analytics. FICO Score 9 introduced the utilization of reported rental payment history, while also de-emphasizing medical debt and disregarding paid collections. Our most recent and most predictive scores, FICO Score 10 and 10 T, were introduced in 2020. To increase its predictive power, FICO Score 10 T builds on FICO Score 10 but also incorporates trended credit data. Trended data considers a longer historical view, giving lenders even more insight into how individuals are managing their credit. Updated versions of our FICO Scores are generally designed to provide greater predictive accuracy than the scores they replace, and to be compatible with prior versions of the FICO Score. 3 Table of Contents In addition to the FICO Score, we offer several other broad-based scores, including specific FICO Industry Scores. For example, in 2021 we introduced Bankcard and Auto Industry versions of FICO Score 10. We also develop various custom scores for our financial services clients. The FICO Resilience Index offering is designed to complement FICO Score models by identifying those consumers who are more resilient to economic stress relative to other consumers within the same FICO Score bands. The FICO Resilience Index is designed to enable lenders to continue to lend and better manage risk by providing a more precise assessment of loan default risk during periods of economic stress. FICO has invested significant resources in the development of scores that can help expand credit access and lower borrowing costs for consumers that have limited credit history or who have sparse or inactive credit files. These scores use alternative data sources to enhance conventional credit bureau data and generate scores for otherwise un-scorable consumers and in many cases improve the credit scores of scorable consumers. FICO Score XD uses public records and property data, and a consumer s history with mobile phone, landline phone and cable payments, to generate scores on the same 300-850 scale as standard FICO Scores. FICO Score XD is available to lenders through our distribution partners, LexisNexis Risk Solutions and Equifax. The UltraFICO TM Score uses consumer-permissioned data such as checking, savings, or money market account data, to generate scores on the same 300-850 scale as standard FICO Scores. Incorporating consumer-permissioned data helps empower consumers to establish or improve their creditworthiness by using data that reflects sound financial activity, but that is not part of a conventional credit report. Both scores maintain the same score to risk relationship as standard FICO Scores, enhancing their compatibility with existing credit underwriting systems and models. Outside the U.S., we offer FICO Scores for consumer loans, and in some cases for small and medium business loans. These scores are typically sold to end-users through consumer reporting agencies in those countries, as they are in the U.S. FICO Scores have been made available in over 40 countries and we have also developed client-specific versions of the FICO Score in over ten countries that we sell directly to end-user customers. We also provide FICO Scores to consumers in the U.S. through our B2C scoring solutions. These Scores are distributed directly by us through our myFICO.com subscription offering and indirectly through our licensed distribution partners, including Experian and certain lenders through the FICO Score Open Access Program. Through myFICO.com and other direct-to-consumer channels, consumers can purchase their FICO Scores, including credit reports associated with the scores, explanations of the factors affecting their scores, and customized educational information on how to manage their scores. Consumers can use products to simulate how taking specific actions could affect their FICO Score. Consumers can also subscribe to credit monitoring, which delivers alerts via email and text when changes to a user s FICO Scores or other credit report content are detected. In addition, consumers can purchase identity theft monitoring products that alert them to potential risks of identity fraud. Software Our software harnesses the power of analytics and digital decisioning technology to help businesses automate, improve, and connect decisions across their enterprise. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including acquisition and pricing, onboarding, servicing and management, and fraud protection. We also help businesses improve non-customer facing decisions such as supply chain optimization, scheduling management and policy adherence. FICO provides software solutions to business customers in more than 80 countries around the world. Our software can be deployed in the cloud utilizing third-party cloud services, or on-premises using our customers IT infrastructure. We typically sell our software as multi-year subscriptions, with payments based on usage metrics such as the number of accounts, transactions or decisioning use cases deployed, often subject to contracted minimum payments. A significant and growing number of our software solutions run natively on FICO Platform, a modular software offering designed to support advanced analytics and decisioning use cases. While not all our software runs on FICO Platform today, we are continuing to invest significant development resources to enable substantially all of our software to run on FICO Platform in the future. 4 Table of Contents Principal Areas of Expertise We specialize in solutions that empower businesses to operationalize analytics to uncover new opportunities, make timely decisions that matter, and execute them at scale. With more than 65 years of analytics and software experience, we have found that bringing human and digital intelligence together allows our customers to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Our principal areas of research and development expertise are focused on the following four analytic domains. Predictive Modeling Predictive modeling identifies and mathematically represents underlying relationships in historical data to make predictions or classifications about future events. Predictive models typically analyze current and historical data about individuals to produce easily understood metrics such as scores. These scores rank-order individuals or specific transactions against a particular variable such as the likelihood of making credit payments on time, the likelihood of a transaction being fraudulent or the probability of responding to a particular offer for services. Our predictive models are frequently used in mission-critical transactional systems and drive decisions and actions in near real time. Several analytic methodologies underlie our products in this area. These include proprietary applications of both linear and nonlinear optimization algorithms, advanced neural systems, machine learning and AI. We also apply various statistical techniques for analysis and pattern detection within large datasets and can derive insights and predictive features from various forms of data, including unstructured data. Decision Analysis and Optimization Decision analysis refers to the broad quantitative field that deals with modeling, analyzing, and optimizing decisions made by individuals, groups, and organizations. Whereas predictive models analyze multiple aspects of individual behavior to forecast future behavior, decision analysis analyzes multiple aspects of a given decision to identify the most effective action to take to reach a desired result. This is often referred to as prescriptive analytics. Our integrated approach to decision analysis incorporates a decision model that mathematically maps the entire decision structure; proprietary optimization technology that identifies the most effective strategies, given both the performance objective and constraints; testing and simulation required for active, continuous learning; and the robust extrapolation of an optimized strategy to a wider set of scenarios than historically encountered. Our optimization capabilities also include native support for Python modeling, as well as our own proprietary mathematical modeling and programming language, an easy-to-use authoring environment, a configurable business simulation and scenario management interface and a set of pre-built optimization algorithms. Transaction Profiling Transaction profiling is a patent-protected technique used to extract meaningful information and reduce the complexity of transaction data used in modeling. Many of our products operate using transactional data, such as credit card purchase transactions, consumer interactions, or other types of data that change over time. In its raw form, this data is very difficult to use in predictive models for several reasons. First, an isolated transaction contains very little information about the behavior of the individual who generated the transaction. Second, transaction patterns change rapidly over time. Third, this type of data can often be highly complex. To overcome these issues, we have developed a set of techniques that transform raw transactional data into a mathematical representation that reveals latent information, and which make the data more usable by predictive models. This profiling technology accumulates data across multiple transactions of many types to create and update profiles of transaction patterns. These profiles enable our neural network models to efficiently and effectively make accurate assessments of, for example, fraud risk and credit risk within real-time transaction streams. Customer Data Integration Decisions made about customers or prospects can benefit from data stored in multiple sources, both inside and outside the enterprise. In the areas of analytics and digital decisioning, more data is generally better. We have developed proprietary data ingestion and management tools that are able to assemble and integrate disparate data sources into a unified view of the customer, household, or other subject through the application of persistent keying technology. This data can include structured or unstructured data. In addition, our technology can integrate multiple data sources in real-time and make them available for rapid analysis and decisions such as credit approval, fraud detection and next best offer workflows. 5 Table of Contents We believe our analytic tools and solutions are among the best commercially available, and that we are uniquely positioned to integrate advanced analytic, software and data technologies into mission-critical business solutions that offer superior returns on investment. FICO Platform FICO Platform is an analytic and decisioning environment that empowers businesses to configure solutions that orchestrate and operationalize high velocity decisions that matter, at scale. Users of FICO Platform can bring together data from multiple sources, apply advanced analytics to derive insights, and translate those insights into actions and workflows that can be executed in real-time. Based on a modular cloud architecture, FICO Platform can be configured by our customers to solve a vast array of business challenges. FICO Platform delivers increasing value to our customers over time as they add additional analytic capabilities, configure their own solutions or utilize pre-configured solutions to address a diverse set of use cases and integrate disparate analytic and decisioning silos onto a centralized, scalable platform. This drives additional subscription software revenue for FICO over time as customers purchase more FICO Platform capabilities and pay for more usage of those capabilities. Our goal is to move substantially all of FICO s current software products onto FICO Platform. For example, FICO s industry leading rules-based decisioning engine, FICO Blaze Advisor decision rules management system, is now available on FICO Platform as FICO Decision Modeler. In addition, many core capabilities of FICO s current software products are now part of FICO Platform, enabling solutions such as Originations and Customer Management. We believe this strategy of moving our software products to FICO Platform will result in revenue growth through follow-on land and expand sales to existing FICO Platform customers and more sales to medium-sized businesses typically served through value-added resellers and systems integrators. Our annual recurring revenue ( ARR ) from FICO Platform based products was $227.0 million as of September 30, 2024, representing 31% of our total software ARR. For information about ARR, refer to Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Annual Recurring Revenue , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Offerings We sell our software primarily as analytic and decisioning software or pre-configured solutions. Our software offerings are sold both individually and as integrated bundles of multiple products. Analytic and Decisioning Software FICO analytic and decisioning software offerings use proprietary and open source microservices and capabilities to enable both business users and data scientists to develop and execute advanced analytics and decision modeling. Our key products in this category include: FICO Decision Modeler and FICO Blaze Advisor are our core decision rules modeling tools, which enable users to flexibly author and manage decision rules and strategies. FICO Decision Modeler delivers the functionality of our industry leading FICO Blaze Advisor product, with the added benefit of seamless integration into FICO Platform. FICO Blaze Advisor, the predecessor to FICO Decision Modeler, is available as an off-platform product. FICO Xpress Optimization provides operations research professionals and business analysts with world-class solvers and productivity tools to determine optimal outcomes for a wide range of industry problems. FICO Xpress Optimization includes a powerful modeling and programming language to quickly model and solve even the largest optimization problems. FICO Xpress Optimization runs on FICO Platform. FICO Analytics Workbench TM is a predictive analytics tool that allows businesses to create and deploy explainable machine learning models for use in decisions that typically require strict governance and compliance, often including regulatory oversight. FICO Analytics Workbench runs on FICO Platform. FICO Data Orchestrator is a data retrieval and mapping solution that can access, gather, and transform data from corporate or public facing information services. FICO Data Orchestrator runs on FICO Platform. FICO DMP Streaming is a real-time and batch data ingestion solution that uniquely delivers in-stream analytics for real-time data insights and complex event processing. FICO Business Outcome Simulator enables business users to run a wide variety of insightful scenarios to assess how their business is likely to perform under varying conditions and assumptions. It unlocks insights into how key outcomes will likely shift in the face of changing competitor strategy, macroeconomic changes, evolving customer preferences, and more. FICO Business Outcome Simulator runs on FICO Platform. 6 Table of Contents FICO Decision Optimizer helps business users understand how different customers will react to a variety of different actions that are being considered. Once that link is understood, FICO Decision Optimizer identifies the combination of actions most likely to lead to the desired portfolio outcomes through decisions such as who to offer a new product, what limit and/or price to offer, or how to treat delinquent customers. FICO Decision Optimizer runs on FICO Platform. Pre-Configured Solutions FICO's pre-configured solutions optimize customer interactions in real-time, driving greater customer engagement and improving business results. They enable acquisition and growth marketing, account activation and management, omni-channel communication, risk assessment, and fraud detection and prevention. Key FICO solutions currently offered include: FICO Fraud Solutions empower organizations to safeguard the business and their customers from payments fraud and application fraud. Leveraging advanced analytic capabilities on a large scale and in real-time, FICO Fraud Solutions identify fraud and enable strategies designed to prevent fraud across payment cards, money transfers, and instances where stolen or synthetic identities are exploited to open accounts. Our models are continually improved using a proprietary, global data set of transaction data contributed by more than 10,000 institutions that participate in the FICO Falcon Intelligence Network. Certain Fraud Solutions capabilities are available on FICO Platform today, and we plan to make additional Fraud Solutions capabilities available on FICO Platform in the future. FICO Originations Solution is an application-to-decision credit originations solution. It enables banks, credit unions, finance companies, online lenders, auto lenders, and other companies to automate and improve the processing of requests for credit. Our Originations Solution increases the speed, consistency and efficiency with which requests are handled, reducing losses, and increasing approval rates through the application of sophisticated policies and analytics that assess applicant risk and reduce the need for manual review by underwriters. Certain Originations capabilities are available on FICO Platform today, and we plan to make additional Originations capabilities available on FICO Platform in the future. FICO Customer Communication Service is an intelligent omnichannel digital communication manager for resolving customer interactions. It enables businesses to automate individualized customer dialogues with the same consistency and regulatory compliance as their human agents. With Customer Communication Service, businesses can be available 24/7 for one-way or two-way communication through any channel their consumers choose. Businesses can rapidly launch mobile alerts, messaging, virtual agents, self-service options, and other auto-resolution capabilities. It helps make the full customer journey more efficient and raises the level of data-driven digital intelligence behind lifecycle communications. Certain Customer Communication capabilities are available on FICO Platform today, and we plan to make additional Customer Communication capabilities available on FICO Platform in the future. FICO Strategy Director and FICO TRIAD Customer Manager enable businesses to automate and improve risk-based decisions for their existing credit customers. These products help businesses apply advanced analytics in credit account and customer decisions to increase portfolio revenue and reduce risk exposure and losses, while improving customer retention. They also allow users to manage risk and communications at both the account and customer level from a single place. FICO Strategy Director runs on FICO Platform. FICO TRIAD Customer Manager, the predecessor to FICO Strategy Director, is available as an off-platform product. FICO Professional Services FICO offers a range of professional services designed to help customers install and configure our software, develop and deploy advanced analytics using our software, and improve customer satisfaction and retention. FICO Implementation Services. We often sell software implementation and configuration services in conjunction with our on-premises and SaaS subscriptions, and our license sales. The FICO implementation services team leverages their deep expertise in our products and their extensive industry-specific knowledge to help our customers implement and configure FICO software rapidly and effectively. FICO Analytic Services. We build custom analytics, decision models and related analytics, and perform machine learning projects for clients in multiple industries. These analytic services help to improve critical business processes and operationalize analytics using FICO software products. Most of our engagements utilize predictive analytics, decision modeling and optimization to provide greater insight into customer preferences and help predict future customer behavior. FICO Advisors. FICO Advisors are business consultants accelerating the practical use of FICO solutions through data-driven analytics, strategic design, and software applications. Our seasoned practitioners are uniquely valued for their credit lifecycle risk and fraud knowledge and can help drive measurable results in an ever-dynamic economic market. 7 Table of Contents Our professional services are sold on an hourly time and materials basis or for a fixed project fee. MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Our scores and software products and services serve clients in multiple industries, including banking, insurance, retail, healthcare and public agencies. End users of our products include three-quarters of each of the largest 100 financial institutions in the U.S. and the largest 100 banks in the world. Our clients also include more than 600 insurers, including eight of the top ten U.S. property and casualty insurers; more than 300 retailers