Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B. Other Information 90 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 91 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 94 Signatures 99 1 Table of Contents FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the PSLRA ). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, expenses, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, research and development, and the sufficiency of capital resources; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements, including those related to economic conditions; (iv) statements regarding results of business combinations; (v) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators, including the proportion of revenues generated from international as opposed to domestic customers; and (vi) statements regarding products, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers. Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, targeted, should, potential, goals, strategy, outlook, plan, estimated, will, variations of these terms and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors, below (including the impact of COVID-19 on macroeconomic conditions and our business, operations and personnel). The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K to be filed by us in fiscal 2021 . 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business GENERAL Fair Isaac Corporation (NYSE: FICO) (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company, which may also be referred to in this report as we, us, our, and FICO ) provides products, solutions and services that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions to enhance business performance. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict consumer behavior and power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We were founded in 1956 on the premise that data, used intelligently, can improve business decisions. Today, we help thousands of companies in over 120 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, automotive companies, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to access and understand their FICO Scores, the standard measure in the U.S. of consumer credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. More information about us can be found on our website, www.fico.com. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC. References to our website address in this report do not constitute an incorporation by reference. Information on our website is not part of this report. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve non-customer decisions such as transaction and claims processing. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients reduce the cost of doing business and losses from risks and fraud, while helping increase revenues, profitability, and customer loyalty. Our Segments We categorize our products and services into the following three operating segments: Applications. This segment includes pre-configured decision management applications designed for a specific type of business problem or process such as marketing, account origination, customer management, fraud, financial crimes compliance, collections and insurance claims management as well as associated professional services. These applications are available to our customers as on-premises software, and many are available as hosted, software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) applications through the FICO Analytic Cloud or Amazon Web Services ( AWS ). Scores . This segment includes our business-to-business scoring solutions and services, our business-to-consumer scoring solutions and services including myFICO solutions for consumers, and associated professional services. Our scoring solutions give our clients access to analytics that can be easily integrated into their transaction streams and decision-making processes. Our scoring solutions are distributed through major credit reporting agencies worldwide, as well as services through which we provide our scores to clients directly. Decision Management Software. This segment is composed of analytic and decision management software tools that clients can use to create their own custom decision management applications, our FICO Decision Management Suite, as well as associated professional services. Decision management software is currently delivered as part of the FICO Platform and is increasingly being adopted to connect decisioning solutions or previously disconnected use cases. These tools are available to our customers as on-premises software, through the FICO Analytic Cloud or AWS. 3 Table of Contents Our Solutions Our solutions involve four fundamental disciplines: Analytics, which include predictive analytics that identify risks and opportunities associated with individual customers, prospects and transactions, in order to detect patterns such as risk, fraud or profitability, as well as optimization analytics that are used to mathematically improve the design of decision logic or strategies. Data management and transaction profiling that bring extensive consumer information to every decision. Software such as decision management systems that author and implement business rules, models and decision strategies, often in a real-time environment, as well as software for managing customer engagement. This software is increasingly deployed as a platform solution that enables previously disparate use cases to be connected in a manner that provides a centralized or 360-degree view of a customer s journey through traditionally siloed client offerings. Consulting services that help clients make the most of investments in FICO applications, tools and scores in the shortest possible time. All of our solutions are designed to help businesses make decisions that are faster, more precise, more consistent and more agile, while reducing costs and risks incurred in making decisions. In addition, we offer our clients a portfolio of applications, tools and services in the cloud, which allow them to create, customize, deploy and manage powerful analytic services. Applications We develop industry-tailored decision management applications, which apply analytics, data management and decision management software to specific business challenges and processes. Our applications primarily serve clients in the banking, insurance, telecommunications, healthcare, retail and public sectors. During fiscal 2020, we continued to expand our product offerings for the FICO Analytic Cloud and AWS, resulting in increased sales opportunities by accommodating customers that can benefit from the power, flexibility and modularity of these solutions. Within our Applications segment our fraud solutions accounted for 15% , 18% and 17% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, and our customer communication services accounted for 8% , 9% and 10% of total revenues in each of these periods, respectively. Origination Applications We provide solutions that enable banks, credit unions, finance companies, alternative peer-to-peer and online lenders, auto lenders, and other companies to automate and improve the processing of requests for credit or service. These solutions increase the speed and efficiency with which requests are handled, reduce losses, and increase approval rates through analytics that assess applicant risk and reduce the need for manual review by loan officers. FICO Origination Manager, an application-to-decision processing solution, is available both on-premises and in the FICO Analytic Cloud, and we plan to make it available in the AWS cloud in fiscal 2021 with the launch of FICO Origination Manager 5.0. Other solutions include the web-based FICO LiquidCredit service, which is primarily focused on credit decisions and offered largely to mid-tier banking institutions. FICO Small Business Scoring Service (SBSS) is recognized as the industry leader in assessing the risk of U.S. small business credit applicants. SBSS is delivered via our LiquidCredit service infrastructure and it brings the speed of consumer lending to small business lending decisions. With SBSS, clients can typically make decisions in hours rather than days to improve customer satisfaction and help attract more small businesses. Delivered as a cloud service, FICO Origination Manager Essentials offers mid-market organizations the ability to inexpensively set up and process small business applications quickly, without a long or difficult implementation process. Origination Manager Essentials will be phased out in August 2021. To support origination, we also offer custom and consortium-based credit risk and application fraud models. 4 Table of Contents Customer Management Applications Our customer portfolio management products and services enable businesses to automate and improve risk-based decisions for their existing customers. These solutions help businesses apply advanced analytics in account and customer decisions to increase portfolio revenue, decrease risk exposure and losses, and reduce customer attrition, while improving operational efficiencies. We provide customer portfolio management solutions for banking, telecommunications and retail. FICO TRIAD Customer Manager, a leading credit management system, is available both on-premises and in the FICO Analytic Cloud. FICO Strategy Director is the newest, more flexible customer management application available on the FICO Analytic Cloud and AWS. These solutions enable businesses to rapidly adapt to changing business and internal conditions by designing and testing new strategies in a champion/challenger environment. The current versions enable users to manage risk and communications at both the account and customer level from a single platform. We market and sell FICO TRIAD Customer Manager and FICO Strategy Director software licenses, maintenance, consulting services, and strategy design and evaluation. Additionally, we provide TRIAD and Strategy Director services and similar credit account management services through third-party credit card processors worldwide, including two of the largest processors in the U.S. Fraud Protection and Compliance Applications Our fraud protection and compliance products improve our clients profitability by providing protections across the customer lifecycle from account origination to digital customer interactions such as online or mobile logins to non-monetary transactions such as address changes or pin changes to payment transactions. Our fraud and financial crimes solutions analyze activity in real time and generate recommendations for immediate action. These defenses are critical to stopping synthetic identity fraud, first-party fraud, and third-party fraud, as well as identifying money laundering activity to help our clients stay compliant and secure while safeguarding the customer experience. Our fraud solutions are designed to detect and prevent a wide variety of risk types. By looking across products and channels including real-time payments, peer-to-peer transactions, digital payments, card payments (credit, debit, prepaid), and deposits FICO helps financial institutions reduce losses and damaged customer relationships caused by fraud and related criminal behavior. FICO fraud solutions also help protect retailers, insurance companies and government agencies. Our leading fraud detection solution is the FICO Falcon Platform, which is recognized as a global leader in fraud detection. The Falcon Platform examines transactional, account, customer, device and merchant data to detect a wide range of fraud indicators quickly and accurately by utilizing artificial intelligence technology. It analyzes transactions in real time, assesses the risk of fraud in a fraud score, and provides the ability for user-defined variables and rules strategies to be used in conjunction with the fraud score to prevent fraud while expediting legitimate transactions. Adaptive analytics, a form of self-learning models, can also be employed to accelerate our customers response to evolving fraud tactics. FICO Fraud Predictor with Merchant Profiles is used in conjunction with the FICO Falcon Platform to improve fraud detection rates through the inclusion of merchant profiles, which is especially important for online transactions. Merchant profiles are built using fraud and transactional data that include characteristics revealing which merchants have a history of higher fraud volumes, and which purchase types and ticket sizes have most often been fraudulent at a particular merchant, among others. FICO Falcon Compromise Manager is used in conjunction with the FICO Falcon Platform to identify point-of-sale and e-commerce card compromises with analytically derived recommended actions such as card block and reissue, or watch-listing to optimize loss prevention. Separately, the FICO Card Alert Service prevents ATM debit fraud by identifying counterfeit or compromised payment cards and reporting them to issuers. The service analyzes daily transactions from participating networks and uses this data to identify common points of compromise and suspect cards most likely to incur fraud. We offer a wide range of solutions focused on preventing and detecting identity fraud. In August 2019, we introduced our identity proofing and user authentication solutions, FICO Falcon Identity Proofing and FICO Falcon Authentication Suite. Identity proofing is the digital process of onboarding new customers without requiring face-to-face verification. The technology provides an extra layer of security that is easy to use with minimal customer inconvenience, thereby preventing fraud as well as ensuring regulatory compliance standards such as e-KYC are met. User authentication is the real-time corroboration of an identity previously established to enable access to an electronic or digital asset. As an authentication hub, our technology includes multifactor, biometric, and behavioral (user and device-based) capabilities. By bringing digital identity verification into our broader portfolio, we give our clients the ability to strengthen fraud and financial crimes defenses with more contextual data and decisioning. 5 Table of Contents FICO Application Fraud Manager helps businesses prevent both first- and third-party fraud during the application process. By preventing fraud prior to account origination, we help our customers avoid future losses as well as unnecessary collections costs. FICO Identity Resolution Engine helps organizations detect and investigate organized criminal behavior using graph analytics to identify entities and their connections across federated data sources. We also offer a comprehensive modular set of compliance solutions to fight money-laundering, terrorist financing, and to fulfill custom requirements for governance, risk and compliance. Solutions include, but are not limited to, Know Your Customer ( KYC ), Anti-Money Laundering ( AML ), and Sanctions Screening. In September 2019, FICO introduced FICO Falcon X, a unified platform for the detection and investigation of both fraud and financial crimes. We also announced FICO Analytics Workbench Falcon Edition, which allows banks data science teams to develop machine learning models using open source libraries, as well as FICO machine learning libraries, and then deploy the models on Falcon X for operational use. Prior to October 2020, when we divested this business, the FICO Cyber Risk Score was part of the FICO Enterprise Security Suite and it provided an empirically derived score that conveyed the security posture of an organization and the likelihood of a material data breach in the following twelve months. The score was used by customers to manage the cyber risk of an enterprise, assess third-party risk that may be introduced by third- and fourth-party partners and suppliers, and provide an effective tool for cyber insurance underwriting. Collections Recovery Applications FICO Debt Manager , FICO Debt Manager Pro, FICO Debt Manager Pro Plus, FICO PlacementsPlus service, FICO Network and FICO Placement Optimizer SM solution (collectively, the FICO Debt Management Solutions ) automate the full cycle of collections and recovery, including early collections, late collections, asset disposal, agency placement and optimization, recovery, litigation, bankruptcy, asset management and residual balance recovery. PlacementsPlus service facilitates control over the distribution and management of accounts to agencies, attorneys, debt buyers and internal recovery departments. FICO Network provides creditors with a single, secure and compliant channel to exchange data with collection agencies, credit bureaus, debt buyers, attorneys, and other vendors. Placement Optimizer maximizes the effectiveness of the placement strategy once accounts are outsourced. FICO Debt Management Solutions also include assessments, models and scores, predictive analytics, advanced customer engagement and optimization. FICO Debt Manager is available both on premises and in the FICO Analytic Cloud. Customer Communication Services FICO Customer Communication Services is an intelligent omnichannel digital communication manager for executing customer lifecycle decisions. It enables businesses to automate individualized dialogues with the consistency and regulatory compliance of their human agents. With Customer Communication Services, businesses can be available 24/7 for one-way or two-way communication through any channel consumers choose. Customers can rapidly launch mobile alerts, messaging, virtual agents, self-service options and other auto-resolution capabilities. It helps make the full customer journey account origination and onboarding, customer management account notifications and engagement campaigns, fraud management and debt collection more digital and raises the level of data-driven intelligence behind lifecycle communications. In addition to its own rules-based communication logic and embedded rules engine, Customer Communication Services can execute complex multi-step strategies shaped by risk-based segmentation, predictive scores, machine learning insights and mathematical optimization. Marketing Applications FICO Marketing Solutions Suite is made up of products, capabilities and services designed to integrate the technology and analytic services needed to perform context-sensitive customer acquisition, cross-selling and retention programs and deliver mathematically optimized offers. The Marketing Solutions Suite enables companies that offer multiple products and use multiple channels (companies such as large financial institutions, consumer branded goods companies, pharmaceutical companies, retail merchants and hospitality companies) to execute more efficient and profitable customer interactions. Services offered in our marketing solutions include customer data integration services; services that enable real-time marketing through direct consumer interaction channels; campaign management, messaging and optimization services; interactive tools that automate the design, execution and collection of customer response data across multiple channels; and customer data collection, management and profiling services. Analytic Services 6 Table of Contents We perform custom analytics (descriptive, predictive and prescriptive) as well as decision modeling and related analytic and machine learning projects for clients in multiple industries. This enables them to improve critical business processes and operationalize analytics across the customer lifecycle. We do so with our advanced analytic methodologies and domain expertise to solve risk management, fraud, marketing and other challenges for a single business, using that business s unique data and industry position to develop a highly customized solution. Most of this work falls under predictive analytics, decision modeling and optimization, which provide greater insight into customer preferences, predict future customer behavior and operationalize these analytics. Within decision analysis and optimization, we apply data and proprietary algorithms to design customer treatment strategies and improve business outcomes. Scores Our FICO Scores are used in the majority of U.S. credit decisions, by nearly all of the major banks, credit card organizations, mortgage lenders and auto loan originators. These credit scores, developed based on third-party data, provide a consistent and objective measure of an individual s credit risk. Credit grantors use our FICO Scores in a variety of ways: to prescreen candidates for marketing programs; to evaluate applicants for new credit; and to manage existing customer accounts. FICO Score is a three-digit score ranging from 300-850. They are calculated by running data from the three U.S. national credit reporting agencies, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax, through one of several proprietary scoring models developed by FICO. Lenders generally pay the credit reporting agencies scoring fees based on usage, and the credit reporting agencies pay an associated fee to us. FICO Score 10 and FICO Score 10 T, the most recent versions of the FICO Score, are anticipated to be released at the three U.S. national credit reporting agencies by the end of calendar year 2020. While the core FICO Score is the foundation of our scoring portfolio, we offer a number of other broad-based scores, including several specific FICO Industry Scores. We also develop various custom scores for our financial services clients. Additionally, we continue to innovate by investing in the development of scores that can help expand the scorable population using alternative credit data. FICO Score XD looks at public records and property data, and a consumer s history with mobile, landline phone and cable payments, to generate scores on the same 300-850 scale as standard FICO Scores. FICO Score XD is available to lenders from LexisNexis Risk Solutions and Equifax. The UltraFICO Score considers consumer permissioned data from accounts such as checking, savings, or money market accounts. Incorporating consumer contributed data is a unique approach to helping empower consumers to establish or improve their creditworthiness by using data that reflects sound financial activity but that is not part of a traditional credit report. This can help consumers qualify for the credit they seek under more competitive terms. This approach is particularly helpful for consumers who may have very sparse or inactive credit files and are seeking a path toward greater financial inclusion in mainstream banking. Outside the U.S., we offer FICO Scores, including scores using alternative data, for consumers, and in some cases for small and medium enterprises, through credit reporting agencies. We also have installed client-specific versions of the FICO Score in over ten countries. Like FICO Scores in the U.S., these scores help lenders in multiple countries leverage the FICO Score s predictive analysis to assess the risk of marketing prospects and credit applicants. FICO Scores are in use or being implemented in 30 different countries across five continents outside the U.S. We also have scoring systems for insurance underwriters and marketers. Our FICO Insurance Scores use the same underlying statistical technology as our FICO Scores, but are designed to predict future personal auto and homeowner insurance losses for new applicants and existing policyholders. Our insurance scores are available to the insurance industry throughout the U.S. During fiscal 2020, we announced the launch of the FICO Resilience Index, a new analytic tool designed to complement FICO Score models by identifying those consumers who are most resilient to economic stress relative to other consumers within the same FICO Score bands. FICO Resilience Index would enable industry participants to more precisely assess credit risk and extend credit to more consumers throughout the economic cycle by managing the risk that emerges during periods of economic stress. We also provide FICO Score based products, education and information on FICO Scores to consumers. They are distributed directly by us through our myFICO service and through licensed distribution partners, including Experian and certain lenders, for use in customer and non-customer programs. 7 Table of Contents The myFICO products and subscription offerings are available online at www.myfico.com. Consumers can use the myFICO.com website to purchase their FICO Scores, including credit reports associated with the scores, explanations of the factors affecting their scores, and customized information on how to manage their scores. We make available the 28 most widely used versions of the FICO Score from the three major U.S. credit bureaus through our myFICO service, representing approximately 95% of all FICO Scores sold and used by lenders. Customers can use products to simulate how taking specific actions could affect their FICO Score 8. Consumers can also subscribe to monitoring services, which deliver alerts via email and text when changes to a user s FICO Scores or other credit report content are detected. In addition, consumers can purchase identity theft monitoring products that alert consumers of potential risks of identity fraud with comprehensive detection and identity restoration services. Decision Management Software We provide an analytics and decision management platform that businesses use to build their own tailored, analytically-powered decision management applications. The FICO Decision Management Platform adds scalable and flexible decision management capabilities to virtually any application or 