Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Reserved 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 88 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 88 Item 9B. Other Information 88 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 88 Item 11. Executive Compensation 88 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 88 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 88 Item 14 . Principal Accounting Fees and Services 88 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 88 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 99 Signatures 100 1 Table of Content Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to "FIS," "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or the "registrant" are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. Also, amounts in tables may not sum or calculate due to rounding. PART I Item 1. Business Overview FIS is a leading provider of technology solutions for merchants, banks, and capital markets firms globally. Our employees are dedicated to advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests by applying our scale, deep expertise and data-driven insights. We help our clients use technology in innovative ways to solve business-critical challenges and deliver superior experiences for their customers. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of Standard Poor's 500 Index. FIS is incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia as Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and our stock is traded under the trading symbol "FIS" on the New York Stock Exchange. We have grown both organically and through acquisitions. Organic growth has been driven by a number of factors, including growth of our customers businesses, our internal development of new solutions that enhance our client offerings, and our sales and marketing efforts to expand our customer base and addressable markets. Acquisitions have contributed additional solutions and services that complement or enhance our offerings, diversify our client base, expand our geographic coverage, and provide entry into new and attractive adjacent markets that align with our strategic objectives. We continue to strategically allocate resources to both organic and inorganic growth initiatives to enhance the long-term value of our business. FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Merchant Solutions ("Merchant"), Banking Solutions ("Banking"), Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") and Corporate and Other. See "Segment Information" below for additional discussion of our solutions and customers. See also Notes 2, 4 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about our revenue. Competitive Strengths We believe our competitive strengths include the following: Brand. FIS has built a highly respected brand known globally for innovation and thought leadership in the financial services and merchant sectors. Extensive Domain Expertise and Portfolio Breadth. FIS' significant expertise in the markets and domains we serve has enabled us to bring to market a broad range of innovative software applications and service offerings. This broad portfolio of solutions includes a wide range of flexible service arrangements, from managed processing arrangements, either at the client site or hosted at an FIS location, including data centers or our private cloud, to traditional license and maintenance approaches. This broad solution set allows us to bundle tailored or integrated services to compete effectively. Excellent and Long-term Relationships with Clients. A significant percentage of FIS' business with our clients relates to applications and services provided under multi-year, recurring contracts. The nature of these relationships allows us to develop close partnerships with our clients, resulting in high client retention rates. As the breadth of FIS' service offerings has expanded, we have found that our deep and broad access within our clients' organizations presents greater opportunities for cross-selling and up-selling solutions to our clients. Modern and Cloud-based Technologies. FIS leverages the modern architectures of our software applications and our ability to integrate many of our services with the services of others to provide customized solutions that respond to individualized client needs. We have made significant investment in modernizing our platforms and solutions and in moving our server compute into our private cloud located in our strategic data centers, supplemented by public clouds in certain regions, to increase speed of delivery to clients and increase solution availability to industry-best levels. Global Distribution and Scale. We are a global leader in many of the markets we serve, supported by a large, knowledgeable talent pool of employees around the world. Our worldwide presence and global scale enable us to 2 Table of Content leverage our array of solution offerings, client relationships, and modern infrastructure to drive revenue growth and operating efficiency. Strategy Our mission is to deliver superior solutions and services to our clients and to expand our client base to generate sustained revenue and earnings growth for our shareholders. Our strategy to achieve this goal is built on the following pillars: Build, Buy, or Partner to Add Solutions to Win New Clients and Cross-sell to Existing Clients. We continue to invest in organic growth through internal software development as well as through acquisitions and equity investments that complement and extend our existing solutions and capabilities, providing us with additional solutions to cross sell to existing clients and to capture the interest of new clients. We also partner from time to time with other entities to provide comprehensive offerings to our clients and prospects. By investing in solution innovation, we continue to expand our value proposition to our clients and prospects. Support Our Clients Through Innovation. Changing market dynamics, particularly in the areas of digital delivery, information security and regulation, are transforming the way our clients operate, which is driving incremental demand for our integrated solutions and services built around our intellectual property. As clients and prospects evaluate technology, business process changes and vendor risks, our depth of service capabilities enable us to become involved earlier in their planning and design process and assist them as they manage these changes. Drive Efficiency and Scalability. We strive to improve the efficiency of our operations through investments in new technologies, processes and infrastructure modernization. We also leverage a one-to-many operating model to drive high incremental margins on revenue growth, while also providing cost-effective solutions for our clients. Expansive Distribution. Through our global sales force and strategic commercial partnerships, we drive growth through client additions and through the expansion of existing client relationships in support of our clients' growth ambitions. Our clients across our strategic global markets reach across the size spectrum from large enterprises and financial institutions, including global or multi-national clients, to small businesses and community or regional financial institutions. Allocate Our Capital and Resources Strategically. As we make decisions with respect to building, buying or partnering to drive innovation in support of our clients, we prioritize the allocation of capital and other resources to the opportunities providing the highest client benefit and growth potential. We also continually review our portfolio of assets and businesses to assess their fit with our strategy and will from time to time decide to wind down or divest businesses or assets to redeploy capital to our areas of strategic focus. We believe that keeping our team and our capital strategically focused benefits our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Segment Information As a result of the Company's acquisition of Worldpay on July 31, 2019, the Company reorganized its reportable segments in the quarter ended September 30, 2019, into Merchant, Banking, Capital Markets, and Corporate and Other. Reportable segments are organized based on solution offerings and target markets. The Company regularly assesses its portfolio of assets and reclassified certain non-strategic businesses from Merchant, Banking, and Capital Markets into Corporate and Other during the year ended December 31, 2020. These operations represented approximately 3% of 2020 revenue and were recast in all prior-period segment information presented. Our consolidated results generally do not reflect pronounced seasonality. However, revenue and margins for each segment may reflect stronger or weaker quarters given the nature of our solutions offered. The Merchant business, in particular, is historically subject to seasonal fluctuations in revenue as a result of consumer spending patterns, with Merchant revenue and profitability being strongest in the fourth quarter and weakest in the first quarter. The novel coronavirus and its variants ("COVID-19" or "the pandemic") adversely impacted revenue particularly in Merchant beginning in February 2020 and has had some impact on seasonality seen in past years. For information about current trends in market demand, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Trends and Conditions . " 3 Table of Content Revenue by Segment The table below summarizes our revenue by reporting segment (in millions): 2021 2020 2019 Merchant Solutions $ 4,496 $ 3,767 $ 1,942 Banking Solutions 6,396 5,944 5,592 Capital Market Solutions 2,624 2,440 2,318 Corporate and Other 361 401 481 Total Consolidated Revenue $ 13,877 $ 12,552 $ 10,333 Merchant Solutions ("Merchant") The Merchant segment is focused on serving merchants of all sizes globally, enabling them to accept, authorize and settle electronic payment transactions. Merchant includes all aspects of payment processing, including value-added services, such as security, fraud prevention, advanced data analytics, foreign currency management and numerous funding options. Merchant serves clients in over 100 countries. Our Merchant clients are highly diversified, including global enterprises, national retailers, and small- to medium-sized businesses ("SMB"). The Merchant segment utilizes broad and varied distribution channels, including direct sales forces and multiple referral partner relationships that provide us with access to new and existing markets. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Enterprise. Our enterprise acquiring solutions primarily focus on enabling both card-present and omni-channel payment acceptance for North American clients with more than $5 million in annual sales volume as well as all international clients. Software-led SMB. Our software-led SMB acquiring solutions primarily focus on North American clients with less than $5 million in annual sales volume. These clients typically leverage software to accept payments, and we employ independent software vendor ("ISV") and other partnership models to distribute our solutions and services to these clients. Integrating our merchant acquiring capabilities into software created by partners enables us to serve a diversity of industry verticals and sub-verticals. Global eCommerce. Our global eCommerce solutions primarily provide card-not-present merchant acquiring capabilities to digitally focused merchants that primarily sell their goods and services online. Our platforms enable both domestic and international capabilities, providing a customizable and scalable solution to our clients with best-in-class authorization rates. Banking Solutions ("Banking") The Banking segment is focused on serving financial institutions of all sizes with core processing software, transaction processing software and complementary applications and services, many of which interact directly with core processing software. We sell these solutions and services on either a bundled or stand-alone basis. Clients in this segment include global financial institutions, U.S. regional and community banks, credit unions and commercial lenders, as well as government institutions and other commercial organizations. Banking serves clients in more than 100 countries. We provide our clients integrated solutions characterized by multi-year processing contracts that generate highly recurring revenue. The predictable nature of cash flows generated from the Banking segment provides opportunities for further investments in innovation, integration, information and security, and compliance in a cost-effective manner. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Core Processing and Ancillary Applications. Our core processing software applications are designed to run banking processes for our financial institution clients, including deposit and lending systems, customer management, and other central management systems. Clients use these applications to maintain the primary records of their customer accounts. Our diverse selection of market-focused core processing software applications enables FIS to compete effectively in a wide range of markets. We continue to invest in our core modernization efforts to further differentiate our offerings for the long term. We also offer a number of services that are ancillary to the primary applications listed above, including branch automation, back-office support systems and compliance support. 4 Table of Content Digital, including Internet, Mobile and eBanking. Our comprehensive suite of retail delivery applications enables financial institutions to integrate and streamline customer-facing operations and back-office processes, thereby improving customer interaction across all channels (e.g., branch offices, internet, mobile, ATM, and call centers). FIS' focus on consumer access has driven significant market innovation in this area, with multi-channel and multi-host solutions and a strategy that provides tight integration of services and a seamless customer experience. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. Fraud, Risk Management and Compliance. Our decision solutions offer a spectrum of options that cover the account lifecycle from helping to identify qualified account applicants to managing existing customer accounts and fraud. Our applications enable Know Your Customer, new account decisioning and opening, account and transaction management, fraud management and collections. Our risk management services use our proprietary risk management models and data sources to assist in detecting fraud and assessing the risk of opening a new account. Our systems use a combination of advanced authentication procedures, predictive analytics, artificial intelligence modeling and proprietary and shared databases to assess and detect fraud risk for deposit transactions for financial institutions. Card and Retail Payment. Our card and retail payment technology and services allow clients to issue VISA , MasterCard or other payment network-branded credit and debit cards or other electronic payment cards for use by both consumer and business accounts. Card transactions continue to increase as a percentage of total point-of-sale payments, which fuels continuing demand for card-related services. We offer EMV (Europay, MasterCard and Visa) integrated circuit cards, often referred to as chip cards, as well as a variety of stored-value card types and loyalty programs, including our Premium Payback service that allows our financial institutions' customers to use loyalty points at a variety of merchant point-of-sale systems. Our integrated services range from card production and activation to processing to an extensive range of fraud management services and value-added loyalty programs designed to increase card usage and fee-based revenue for financial institutions and merchants. The majority of our programs are full service, including most of the operations and support necessary for an issuer to operate a credit card program. We do not make credit decisions for our card issuing clients. We are also a leading provider of prepaid card services, which include digital cards, gift cards and reloadable cards, with end-to-end solutions for development, processing and administration of stored-value programs, including government benefit programs. Our closed-loop gift card solutions and loyalty programs provide merchants compelling solutions to drive consumer loyalty. Electronic Funds Transfer and Network. Our electronic funds transfer and debit card processing businesses offer settlement and card management solutions for financial institution card issuers. We provide traditional ATM-based debit network access through NYCE, other branded networks, and emerging real-time payment alternatives. Our networks connect millions of cards and point-of-sale locations nationwide, providing consumers with secure, real-time access to their money. Also through our networks, clients such as financial institutions, retailers and independent ATM operators can capitalize on the efficiency, consumer convenience and security of electronic real-time payments, real-time account-to-account transfers, and strategic alliances such as surcharge-free ATM network arrangements. Wealth and Retirement. We provide wealth and retirement solutions that help banks, trust companies, brokerage firms, insurance firms, retirement plan professionals, benefit administrators and independent advisors acquire, service and grow their client relationships. We provide solutions for client acquisition, transaction management, trust accounting and recordkeeping that can be deployed stand-alone or as part of an integrated wealth or retirement platform, or on an outsourced basis. Item Processing and Output Services. Our item processing services furnish financial institutions with the technology needed to capture data from checks, transaction tickets and other items; image and sort items; process exceptions through keying; and perform balancing, archiving and the production of statements. Our item processing services are performed at one of our multiple item processing centers located throughout the U.S. or on-site at client locations. Our extensive solutions include distributed (i.e., non-centralized) data capture, mobile deposit capture, check and remittance processing, fraud detection, and document and report management. Clients encompass banks and corporations of all sizes, from de novo banks to the largest financial institutions and corporations. We offer a number of output services that are ancillary to the primary solutions we provide, including print and mail capabilities, document composition software and solutions, and card personalization fulfillment services. Our print and mail services offer complete computer output solutions for the creation, management and delivery of print and fulfillment 5 Table of Content needs. We provide our card personalization fulfillment services for branded credit cards and branded and non-branded debit and prepaid cards. Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") The Capital Markets segment is focused on serving global financial services clients with a broad array of buy- and sell-side solutions. Clients in this segment operate in more than 100 countries and include asset managers, buy- and sell-side securities brokerage and trading firms, insurers, private equity firms, and other commercial organizations. Our buy- and sell-side solutions include a variety of mission-critical applications for recordkeeping, data and analytics, trading, financing and risk management. Capital Markets clients purchase our solutions and services in various ways including licensing and managing technology "in-house," using consulting and third-party service providers, as well as procuring fully outsourced end-to-end solutions. Our long-established relationships with many of these financial and commercial institutions generate significant recurring revenue. We have made, and continue to make, investments in modern platforms, advanced technologies, open APIs, machine learning and artificial intelligence, and regulatory technology to support our Capital Markets clients. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Securities Processing and Finance. Our offerings help financial institutions to increase the efficiency, transparency and control of their back-office trading operations, post-trade processing and settlement including derivative solutions, risk management, securities lending, syndicated lending, tax processing, and regulatory compliance. The breadth of our offerings also facilitates advanced business intelligence and market data distribution based on our extensive market data access. Global Trading . Our trading solutions provide trade execution, data and network solutions to financial institutions, corporations and municipalities in North America, Europe and other global markets across a variety of asset classes. Our trade execution and network solutions help both buy- and sell-side firms improve execution quality, decrease overall execution costs and address trade connectivity challenges. Asset Management and Insurance . We offer solutions that help institutional investors, insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, fund administrators and securities transfer agents improve both investment decision-making and operational efficiency, while managing risk and increasing transparency. Our asset management solutions support every stage of the investment process, from research and portfolio management, to valuation, risk management, compliance, investment accounting, transfer agency and client reporting. Our insurance solutions help support front-office and back-office functions including actuarial risk calculations, policy administration and financial and investment accounting and reporting for a variety of insurance lines, including life and health, annuities and pensions, property and casualty, and reinsurance. Corporate Liquidity. Our corporate liquidity solutions help chief financial officers and treasurers manage working capital by reducing risk and improving communication and response time between a company's buyers, suppliers, banks and other stakeholders. Our end-to-end collaborative financial management framework helps bring together receivables, treasury and payments for a single view of cash and risk, which helps our clients optimize business processes for enhanced liquidity management. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment consists of corporate overhead expense, certain leveraged functions and miscellaneous expenses that are not included in the operating segments, as well as certain non-strategic businesses that we plan to wind down or sell. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to corporate marketing, corporate finance and accounting, human resources, legal, and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and other costs, such as acquisition and integration expenses, that are not considered when management evaluates revenue-generating segment performance. Sales and Marketing Our sales personnel have expertise in particular solutions and markets as well as across our various client segments. We believe that focusing our expertise on clients in specific markets and tailoring integrated solution sets to participants in those markets enables us to better serve our clients and makes our offerings more attractive to prospects. We target the majority of our prospects via direct and/or indirect field sales, as well as inbound and outbound lead generation, telesales and virtual sales efforts. 6 Table of Content Our global marketing team develops and leads the execution of global, industry-specific and geographic-based strategic marketing plans in support of the segments' reputation and relationship building goals in addition to their revenue and profitability goals. Key components of our strategic plans include brand amplification and digital enablement; market and competitive research; voice of the customer and client engagement; thought leadership; integrated go-to-market programs; internal communications and readiness; journalists and social media engagement, industry analyst relations; client events; trade shows; high-touch client programs; demand generation campaigns; account- and deal-based marketing programs; collateral development and management across digital and online channels; and the launch of new products to market. Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property In general, we own the intellectual property and proprietary rights that are necessary to conduct our business and are important to our future success, including trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights and patents. We license certain items from third parties under arms-length agreements for varying terms, including some "open source" licenses. We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, internal security practices, patents, trade secrets, copyrights and applicable law to establish and protect our software, technology and expertise worldwide. We rely on trademark law to protect our rights in our brands. We intend to continue taking appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including by legal action when necessary and appropriate. Competition The markets for our solutions and services are intensely competitive. Depending on the business line, our primary competitors include, but are not limited to, internal technology or software development departments within financial institutions or other large companies, merchant acquirers, global eCommerce providers, global and regional companies providing payment services, third-party payment processors, securities exchanges, asset managers, card associations, clearing networks or associations, trust companies, independent computer services firms, companies that develop and deploy software applications, companies owned by global banks selling new competitive solutions, companies that provide customized development, implementation and support services, emerging technology innovators, and business process outsourcing companies. Many of these companies compete with us across multiple solutions, markets and geographies. Some of these competitors possess greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do. Competitive factors impacting the success of our solutions and services include the quality of the technology-based application or service, application features and functions, ease of delivery and integration, the ability to maintain, enhance and support the applications or services, price and overall relationship management. We believe that we compete vigorously in each of these categories. In addition, we believe our domain expertise, combined with our ability to offer multiple applications, services and integrated solutions, enhances our competitiveness against companies with more limited offerings. Our ability to innovate and scale digital payments and services during the COVID-19 pandemic has been a competitive advantage as well. Research and Development Our research and development activities primarily relate to the modernization of our proprietary core processing software applications and the design and development of next generation digital solutions, processing systems, software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. In addition, we intend to offer services compatible with new and emerging delivery channels. As part of our research and development process, we evaluate current and emerging technology for compatibility with our existing and future software platforms. To this end, we engage with various hardware and software vendors in the evaluation of various new and existing technologies. Where appropriate, we use third-party technology components in the development of our software applications and service offerings. We typically utilize enterprise license agreements or strive to ensure that either alternative suppliers or transfer rights exist in order to ensure the continuity of supply of third-party technology components used in the development of our software applications and service offerings. As a result, we are not materially dependent upon any third-party technology components. Third-party software may be used for highly specialized bu