Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 34 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 101 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B. Other Information 101 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 101 Item 11. Executive Compensation 101 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 101 Item 14 . Principal Accounting Fees and Services 101 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 102 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 111 Signatures 112 1 Table of Contents Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to "FIS," "we," the "Company" or the "registrant" are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. PART I Item 1. Business Overview FIS is a leading provider of technology solutions for merchants, banks, and capital markets firms globally. Our over 55,000 employees are dedicated to advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests by applying our scale, deep domain expertise and data-driven insights. We help our clients use technology in innovative ways to solve business-critical challenges and improve the experience for their customers. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of the Standard Poor's 500 Index. FIS is incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia as Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and our stock is traded under the trading symbol "FIS" on the New York Stock Exchange. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical applications and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenue by customer, geography and service offering. We also develop new solutions which enhance our client offerings. We evaluate possible acquisitions that might contribute to our growth or performance on an ongoing basis. Our solutions include merchant acquiring solutions; integrated payment solutions; global eCommerce solutions; core processing and ancillary applications solutions; digital solutions, including internet, mobile and eBanking; fraud, risk management and compliance solutions; electronic funds transfer and network services solutions; card and retail payment solutions; wealth and retirement solutions; item processing and output services solutions; securities processing and finance solutions; global trading solutions; asset management and insurance solutions; and corporate liquidity solutions. We sell these solutions to financial institutions, as well as merchants, companies and governmental entities. We sell certain of these solutions to domestic financial institutions and companies as well as to global financial institutions and companies domiciled both within and outside of North America, where our solutions are able to be deployed across multiple regions. Our strategic acquisitions have enabled us to broaden our available solution sets, scale our operations, expand and diversify our customer base and strengthen our competitive position. On July 31, 2019, FIS completed the acquisition of Worldpay. Through its acquisition of Worldpay, FIS is now a global leader in financial technology, solutions and services for merchants as well as banks and capital markets. The Worldpay acquisition brings an integrated technology platform with a comprehensive suite of products and services serving merchants and financial institutions. Through the Worldpay transaction, FIS has enhanced its global payment capabilities, scale, robust risk and fraud solutions and advanced data analytics. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. Financial Information About Operating Segments and Geographic Areas As a result of the Company's acquisition of Worldpay, the Company reorganized its reportable segments and recast all prior-period segment information presented to align with the new reportable segments. The new segments are Merchant Solutions ("Merchant"), Banking Solutions ("Banking"), and Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets"), which are organized based on the markets and clients served aligned with the solutions they provide, as well as the Corporate and Other segment. For information about our revenue see Notes 2, 4 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competitive Strengths We believe our competitive strengths include the following: Brand - FIS has built a global brand known for innovation and thought leadership in the financial services sector. Global Distribution and Scale - Our worldwide presence, array of solution offerings, customer breadth, established infrastructure and employee depth enable us to leverage our client relationships and global scale to drive revenue growth and operating efficiency. We are a global leader in many of the markets we serve, supported by a large, knowledgeable talent pool of employees around the world. 2 Table of Contents Extensive Domain Expertise and Extended Portfolio Depth - FIS has a significant number and wide range of high-quality software applications and service offerings that have been developed over many years with substantial input from our customers. Our broad portfolio of solutions includes a wide range of flexible service arrangements for the deployment and support of our software, from managed processing arrangements, either at the customer's site or at an FIS location, including data centers or our private cloud, to traditional license and maintenance fee approaches. This broad solution set allows us to bundle tailored or integrated services to compete effectively. In addition, FIS is able to use the modular nature of our software applications and our ability to integrate many of our services with the services of others to provide customized solutions that respond to individualized customer needs. We understand the needs of our customers and have developed and acquired innovative solutions that we believe can give them a competitive advantage and reduce their operating costs. We have made significant investment in modernizing our platforms and solutions and in moving our server compute into our private cloud located in our strategic data centers to increase our competitiveness in the global marketplace. Excellent and Long-Term Relationships with Customers - A significant percentage of FIS' business with our customers relates to applications and services provided under multi-year, recurring contracts. The nature of these relationships allows us to develop close partnerships with these customers, resulting in high client retention rates. As the breadth of FIS' service offerings has expanded, we have found that our access to key customer personnel is increasing, presenting greater opportunities for cross-selling and providing integrated, total solutions to our customers. Strategy Our mission is to deliver superior solutions and services to our clients and to expand our client base, which will result in sustained revenue and earnings growth for our shareholders. Our strategy to achieve this goal has been and continues to be built on the following pillars: Build, Buy, or Partner to Add Solutions to Cross-Sell Existing Clients and Win New Clients - We continue to invest in growth through internal software development as well as through acquisitions and equity investments that complement and extend our existing solutions and capabilities, providing us with additional solutions to cross-sell existing clients and capture the interest of new clients. We also partner from time to time with other entities to provide comprehensive offerings to our prospects and customers. By investing in solution innovation and integration, we continue to expand our value proposition to our prospects and clients. Through our acquisition of Worldpay, we are a global leader in merchant acquiring and global eCommerce solutions. Support Our Clients Through Innovation - Changing market dynamics, particularly in the areas of information security, regulation and innovation, are transforming the way our clients operate, which is driving incremental demand for our integrated solutions and services around our intellectual property. As prospects and customers evaluate technology, business process changes and vendor risks, our depth of services capabilities enables us to become involved earlier in their planning and design process and assist them as they manage through these changes. Continually Improve to Drive Margin Expansion - We strive to optimize our performance through investments in infrastructure enhancements, our workforce and other measures that are designed to drive margin expansion. Expand Client Relationships - The overall market we serve continues to gravitate beyond single-application purchases to multi-solution partnerships. As the market dynamics shift, we expect our clients and prospects to rely more on our multidimensional service offerings. Our leveraged solutions and processing expertise can produce meaningful value and cost savings for our clients through more efficient operating processes, improved service quality and convenience for our clients' customers. Build Global Diversification - We continue to deploy resources in strategic global markets where we expect to achieve meaningful scale. 3 Table of Contents Revenue by Segment The table below summarizes our revenue by reporting segment (in millions): 2019 2018 2017 Merchant Solutions $ 2,013 $ 276 $ 261 Banking Solutions 5,873 5,712 5,552 Capital Market Solutions 2,447 2,391 2,749 Corporate and Other 44 106 Total Consolidated Revenue $ 10,333 $ 8,423 $ 8,668 Merchant Solutions ("Merchant") The Merchant segment is focused on serving merchants of all sizes globally, enabling them to accept electronic payments, including credit, debit and prepaid payments originated at a physical point of sale as well as in card-not-present environments such as eCommerce and mobile. Merchant services include all aspects of payment processing, including authorization and settlement, customer service, chargeback and retrieval processing, reporting for electronic payment transactions and network fee and interchange management. Merchant also includes value-added services, such as security and fraud prevention solutions, advanced data analytics and information management solutions, foreign currency management and numerous funding options. Merchant serves clients in over 140 countries. Our Merchant clients are highly-diversified, including non-discretionary everyday spend categories, such as grocery and pharmacy, and include 15 of the U.S. top 25 national retailers in 2019 ranked by sales, as well as global enterprises and small- to medium-sized businesses. The Merchant segment utilizes broad and varied distribution channels, including direct sales forces and multiple referral partner relationships that provide us with a growing and diverse client base. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Merchant Acquiring Solutions. Our merchant acquiring solutions primarily provide traditional point-of-sale payment processing for merchants of all sizes with a focus on large multi-national enterprises. Our solutions provide payment acceptance from various payment types, including but not limited to debit, credit, EMV, contactless and loyalty point redemption. We also provide various value-added services for merchants including fraud, settlement, chargeback and onboarding services. Integrated Payment Solutions. Our integrated payment solutions primarily leverage an independent software vendor ("ISV") partnership model where FIS provides the merchant acquiring capabilities for the ISV partner across several industry verticals and sub-verticals. This partnership model allows FIS to avoid conflict of interest amongst the ISV providers and also reduces risk of maintaining and updating the software itself. These solutions also include merchant acquiring for payment facilitators ("PayFacs"), which consolidates multiple sub-merchant accounts under a master merchant identification number ("MID") account. Across all clients our integrated payment solutions also provide value-added services. Global eCommerce Solutions. Our global eCommerce solutions provide card-not-present merchant acquiring capabilities to merchants of all sizes looking to sell their goods and services digitally. Our platforms enable both domestic and international capabilities and can provide a customizable and scalable solution to our merchants. We believe our solutions are differentiated by the authorization rates we provide to our clients in addition to our global scale. Banking Solutions ("Banking") The Banking segment is focused on serving all sizes of financial institutions for core processing and ancillary applications solutions; digital solutions; fraud, risk management and compliance solutions; electronic funds transfer and network services solutions; payment solutions; wealth and retirement solutions; item processing and output services solutions; and services capitalizing on the continuing trend to outsource these solutions. Clients in this segment include global financial institutions, U.S. regional and community banks, credit unions and commercial lenders, as well as government institutions, and other commercial organizations. Banking serves clients in more than 130 countries. Our applications include core processing software, which clients use to maintain the primary records of their customer accounts, and complementary applications and 4 Table of Contents services that interact directly with the core processing applications. We provide our clients integrated solutions characterized by multi-year processing contracts that generate highly recurring revenue. The predictable nature of cash flows generated from the Banking segment provides opportunities for further investments in innovation, integration, information and security, and compliance in a cost-effective manner. The results in this segment included the Reliance Trust Company of Delaware business through its divestiture on December 31, 2018; the Company's Brazilian Venture business through its divestiture as part of the joint venture unwinding transaction on December 31, 2018; and the Capco risk and compliance consulting business through its divestiture on July 31, 2017 (see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Our solutions in this segment include the following: Core Processing and Ancillary Applications Solutions. Our core processing software applications are designed to run banking processes for our financial institution clients, including deposit and lending systems, customer management, and other central management systems, serving as the system of record for processed activity. Our diverse selection of market-focused core systems enables FIS to compete effectively in a wide range of markets. We continue to invest in our core modernization efforts to further differentiate our offerings for the long term. We also offer a number of services that are ancillary to the primary applications listed above, including branch automation, back-office support systems and compliance support. Digital Solutions, including Internet, Mobile and eBanking. Our comprehensive suite of retail delivery applications enables financial institutions to integrate and streamline customer-facing operations and back-office processes, thereby improving customer interaction across all channels (e.g., branch offices, internet, ATM, mobile, and call centers). FIS' focus on consumer access has driven significant market innovation in this area, with multi-channel and multi-host solutions and a strategy that provides tight integration of services and a seamless customer experience. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience will extend to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts; servicing of existing accounts; providing money movement services; and personal financial management; as well as a broad range of other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. Fraud, Risk Management and Compliance Solutions. Our decision solutions offer a spectrum of options that cover the account lifecycle from helping to identify qualified account applicants to managing existing customer accounts and fraud. Our applications include know-your-customer, new account decisioning and opening, account and transaction management, fraud management and collections. Our risk management services use our proprietary risk management models and data sources to assist in detecting fraud and assessing the risk of opening a new account. Our systems use a combination of advanced authentication procedures, predictive analytics, artificial intelligence modeling and proprietary and shared databases to assess and detect fraud risk for deposit transactions for financial institutions. Electronic Funds Transfer and Network Services Solutions. Our electronic funds transfer and debit card processing businesses offer settlement and card management solutions for financial institution card issuers. We provide traditional ATM-based debit network access through NYCE, other branded networks, and emerging real-time payment alternatives. Our networks connect millions of cards and point-of-sale locations nationwide, providing consumers with secure, real-time access to their money. Also through our networks, clients such as financial institutions, retailers and independent ATM operators can capitalize on the efficiency, consumer convenience and security of electronic real-time payments, real-time account-to-account transfers, and strategic alliances such as surcharge-free ATM network arrangements. Card and Retail Payment Solutions. Our card and retail payment technology and services allow financial institutions to issue VISA , MasterCard or American Express branded credit and debit cards or other electronic payment cards for use by both consumer and business accounts. Card transactions continue to increase as a percentage of total point-of-sale payments, which fuels continuing demand for card-related services. We offer Europay, MasterCard and VISA ("EMV") integrated circuit cards, often referred to as smart cards or chip cards, as well as a variety of stored-value card types and loyalty/reward programs. Our integrated services range from card production and activation to processing to an extensive range of fraud management services and value-added loyalty programs designed to increase card usage and fee-based revenue for financial institutions and merchants. The majority of our programs are full 5 Table of Contents service, including most of the operations and support necessary for an issuer to operate a credit card program. We do not make credit decisions for our card issuing clients. We are also a leading provider of prepaid card services, which include gift cards and reloadable cards, with end-to-end solutions for development, processing and administration of stored-value programs. Our closed-loop gift card solutions and loyalty programs provide merchants compelling solutions to drive consumer loyalty. Wealth and Retirement Solutions. We provide wealth and retirement solutions that help banks, trust companies, brokerage firms, insurance firms, retirement plan professionals, benefit administrators and independent advisors acquire, service and grow their client relationships. We provide solutions for client acquisition, transaction management, trust accounting and recordkeeping that can be deployed stand-alone or as part of an integrated wealth or retirement platform, or on an outsourced basis. Item Processing and Output Services Solutions. Our item processing services furnish financial institutions with the technology needed to capture data from checks, transaction tickets and other items; image and sort items; process exceptions through keying; and perform balancing, archiving and the production of statements. Our item processing services are performed at one of our multiple item processing centers located throughout the U.S. or on-site at client locations. Our extensive solutions include distributed (i.e., non-centralized) data capture, mobile deposit capture, check and remittance processing, fraud detection, and document and report management. Clients encompass banks and corporations of all sizes, from de novo banks to the largest financial institutions and corporations. We offer a number of output services that are ancillary to the primary solutions we provide, including print and mail capabilities, document composition software and solutions, and card personalization fulfillment services. Our print and mail services offer complete computer output solutions for the creation, management and delivery of print and fulfillment needs. We provide our card personalization fulfillment services for branded credit cards and branded and non-branded debit and prepaid cards. Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") The Capital Markets segment is focused on serving global financial services clients with a broad array of buy- and sell-side solutions. Clients in this segment operate in more than 100 countries and include asset managers, buy-and sell-side securities, brokerage and trading firms, insurers, private equity firms, and other commercial organizations. Our buy- and sell-side solutions include a variety of mission-critical applications for record keeping, data and analytics, trading, financing and risk management. Capital Markets clients purchase our solutions and services in various ways including licensing and managing technology "in-house," using consulting and third-party service providers, as well as fully outsourcing end-to-end solutions. We have long-established relationships with many of these financial and commercial institutions that generate significant recurring revenue. We have made, and continue to make, investments in modern platforms; advanced technologies, such as cloud delivery, open APIs, machine learning and artificial intelligence; and regulatory technology to support our Capital Markets clients. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Securities Processing and Finance Solutions. Our offerings help financial institutions to increase the efficiency, transparency and control of their back-office trading operations, post-trade processing and settlement including derivative solutions, risk management, securities lending, syndicated lending, tax processing, and regulatory compliance. The breadth of our offerings also facilitates advanced business intelligence and market data distribution based on our extensive market data access. Global Trading Solutions . Our trading solutions provide trade execution, data and network solutions to financial institutions, corporations and municipalities in North America, Europe and other global markets across a variety of asset classes. Our trade execution and network solutions help both buy- and sell-side firms improve execution quality, decrease overall execution costs and address today's trade connectivity challenges. Asset Management and Insurance Solutions . We offer solutions that help institutional investors, insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, fund administrators and securities transfer agents improve both investment decision-making and operational efficiency, while managing risk and increasing transparency. Our asset management solutions support every stage of the investment process, from research and portfolio management, to valuation, risk management, compliance, investment accounting, transfer agency and client reporting. Our insurance solutions help support front-office and back-office functions including actuarial risk calculations, policy administration and financial 6 Table of Contents and investment accounting and reporting for a variety of insurance lines, including life and health, annuities and pensions, property and casualty, reinsurance, and asset management. Corporate Liquidity Solutions. Our corporate liquidity solutions help chief financial officers and treasurers manage working capital by reducing risk and improving communication and response time between a company's buyers, suppliers, banks and other stakeholders. Our end-to-end collaborative financial management framework helps bring together receivables, treasury and payments for a single view of cash and risk, which helps our clients optimize business processes for enhanced liquidity management. Corporate and Other Segment The Corporate and Other segment consists of corporate overhead expense, certain leveraged functions and miscellaneous expenses that are not included in the operating segments, as well as certain non-strategic businesses. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to corporate marketing, corporate finance and accounting, human resources, legal, and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and other costs, such as acquisition and integration expenses, that are not considered when management evaluates revenue-generating segment performance. The Corporate and Other segment also includes the impact on revenue for 2018 and 2017 of adjusting deferred revenue to fair value from the acquisition of SunGard and its subsidiaries on November 30, 2015 (the "SunGard acquisition"). The non-strategic business solutions in this segment have been divested as follows: Retail Check Processing. Effective August 31, 2018, FIS sold substantially all the assets of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America (see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Public Sector and Education. We completed the sale of our Public Sector and Education business on February 1, 2017 (see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Sales and Marketing We have experienced sales personnel with expertise in particular services and markets, as well as across our various customer segments. We believe that focusing our expertise in specific markets (e.g., global financial institutions, North American financial institutions, North American merchants, etc.) and tailoring integrated solution sets of particular value to participants in those markets enables us to leverage opportunities to cross-sell and up-sell. We continue to realign our sales teams to better match our solution expertise with the market opportunity and customer demand. We target the majority of our potential customers via direct and/or indirect field sales, as well as inbound and outbound lead generation and telesales efforts. Our global marketing strategy is to develop and lead the execution of the Merchant, Banking and Capital Markets strategic marketing plans in support of their revenue and profitability goals and the FIS brand. Key components include thought leadership, integrated go-to-market programs, internal communications and readiness, media relations, client events, trade shows, high-touch client programs, demand generation campaigns and collateral development and management across digital and online channels. Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property In general, we own the intellectual property and proprietary rights that are necessary for the conduct of our business and important to our future success, including trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights and patents. We license certain items from third parties under arms-length agreements for varying terms, including some "open source" licenses. Although we acquired the trademarks and trade names used by SunGard, we note that following the split-off of the Availability Services ("AS") business by SunGard in 2014, AS has the right to use the Sungard Availability Services name, which does not include the right to use the SunGard name or its derivatives. We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, internal security practices, patents, trade secrets, copyrights and applicable law to establish and protect our software, technology and expertise worldwide. We rely on trademark law to protect our rights in our brands. We intend to continue taking appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including by legal action when necessary and appropriate. 7 Table of Contents Competition The markets for our solutions and services are intensely competitive. Depending on the business line, in our Merchant, Banking and Capital Markets segments, our primary competitors include internal technology or software development departments within financial institutions or other large companies, merchant acquirers, global eCommerce providers, global and regional companies providing payment services, third-party payment pro