Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 27 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Reserved 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 93 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 93 Item 9B. Other Information 93 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 93 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 93 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 93 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 Item 14 . Principal Accounting Fees and Services 93 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 102 Signatures 103 1 Table of Contents Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to "FIS," "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or the "registrant" are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. Also, amounts in tables may not sum or calculate due to rounding. PART I Item 1. Business Overview FIS is a leading global provider of financial services technology solutions for financial institutions, businesses and developers. We improve the digital transformation of our financial economy, advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests. We provide the confidence made possible when reliability meets innovation, helping our clients run, grow and protect their business. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a member of the Fortune 500 and the Standard Poor's 500 Index. FIS is incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia as Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., and our stock is traded under the trading symbol "FIS" on the New York Stock Exchange. Our growth has been driven by a number of factors, including growth of our customers' businesses, our internal development of new solutions that enhance our client offerings, and our sales and marketing efforts to expand our customer base and addressable markets. Acquisitions have also contributed additional solutions that complement or enhance our offerings, diversify our client base, expand our geographic coverage, and provide entry into new and attractive adjacent markets that align with our strategic objectives. We continue to strategically allocate resources to both internal and external growth initiatives to enhance the long-term value of our business. On January 31, 2024, the Company completed the previously announced sale (the "Worldpay Sale") of a 55% equity interest in its Worldpay Merchant Solutions business to private equity funds managed by GTCR (such funds, the "Buyer"). As of the closing, we retained a non-controlling 45% ownership interest in a new standalone joint venture (the "Joint Venture" or "Worldpay"), which will continue to provide merchant acquiring and related services to businesses of all size and across any industry globally, enabling them to accept, authorize and settle electronic payment transactions. In connection with the Worldpay Sale, FIS and Worldpay have entered into commercial agreements, preserving a key value proposition for clients of both businesses and reducing potential dis-synergies. FIS and Worldpay also entered into additional agreements as described in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. Competitive Strengths We believe our competitive strengths include the following: Brand. FIS is a highly respected brand known globally for innovation and thought leadership in the financial services sector. Extensive Domain Expertise and Portfolio Breadth. FIS' significant expertise in the markets and domains we serve has enabled us to bring to market a broad range of innovative software applications and service offerings. This broad portfolio of solutions includes a wide range of flexible service arrangements, from managed processing arrangements, either at the client site or hosted at an FIS location, including data centers or our private cloud, to traditional license and maintenance approaches. This broad solution set allows us to bundle tailored or integrated services to compete effectively. Excellent and Long-term Relationships with Clients. A significant percentage of our business with our clients relates to solutions provided under multi-year, recurring contracts. The nature of these relationships allows us to develop close partnerships with our clients, resulting in high client retention rates. As the breadth of FIS' service offerings has expanded, we have found that our deep and broad access within our clients' organizations presents greater opportunities for cross-selling and up-selling solutions to our clients. Modern and Cloud-based Technologies. FIS leverages the modern architectures of our software applications and our ability to integrate many of our solutions with the solutions of others to provide customized solutions that respond to individualized client needs. We have made significant investment in modernizing our platforms and solutions and in moving our server compute into our private cloud located in our strategic data centers, supplemented by public clouds in certain regions, to increase speed of delivery to clients and increase solution availability to industry-best levels. 2 Table of Contents Global Distribution and Scale. We are a global leader in many of the markets we serve, supported by a large, knowledgeable talent pool of employees around the world. Our worldwide presence and global scale enable us to leverage our array of solution offerings, client relationships, and modern infrastructure to drive revenue growth and operating efficiency. Strategy Our mission is to deliver superior solutions to our clients and to expand our client base to generate sustained revenue and earnings growth for our shareholders. Our strategy to achieve this goal is built on the following pillars: Build, Buy, or Partner to Add Solutions to Win New Clients and Cross-sell to Existing Clients. We continue to invest in our solution portfolio through internal software development as well as through acquisitions and equity investments that complement and extend our existing solutions and capabilities, providing us with additional solutions to cross-sell to existing clients and to capture the interest of new clients. We also partner from time to time with other entities to provide comprehensive offerings to our clients and prospects. By investing in solution innovation, we continue to expand our value proposition to our clients and prospects. Support Our Clients Through Innovation. Changing market dynamics, particularly in the areas of digital delivery, information security and regulation, are transforming the way our clients operate, which is driving incremental demand for our integrated solutions built around our intellectual property. As clients and prospects evaluate technology, business process changes and vendor risks, our depth of service capabilities enable us to become involved earlier in their planning and design process and assist them as they manage these changes. Drive Efficiency and Scalability. We strive to improve the efficiency of our operations through investments in new technologies, processes and infrastructure modernization. We also leverage a one-to-many operating model to drive high incremental margins on revenue growth, while also providing cost-effective solutions for our clients. Expand Distribution. Through our global sales force and strategic commercial partnerships, we drive growth through client additions and through the expansion of existing client relationships in support of our clients' growth ambitions. Our clients across our strategic global markets reach across the size spectrum from large banks, financial institutions and other enterprises, including global or multi-national clients, to small community or regional financial institutions and other businesses. Allocate Our Capital and Resources Strategically. As we make decisions with respect to building, buying or partnering to drive innovation in support of our clients, we prioritize the allocation of capital and other resources to the opportunities providing the highest client benefit and growth potential. We also continually review our portfolio of assets and businesses to assess their fit with our strategy and will from time to time decide to wind down or divest businesses or assets to redeploy capital to our areas of strategic focus. We believe that keeping our team and our capital strategically focused benefits our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Segment Information FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Banking Solutions ("Banking"), Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") and Corporate and Other. The Worldpay Merchant Solutions business included the former Merchant Solutions segment in addition to a business previously included in the Corporate and Other segment. As a result of the Worldpay Sale, the results of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business have been recast as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Accordingly, the Company no longer reports the Merchant Solutions segment. The assets and liabilities of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business disposal group are presented separately on the consolidated balance sheets, and the operating results have been reflected as discontinued operations, for all periods presented. As such, the related results have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results. The consolidated statement of cash flows continues to include cash flows from both continuing and discontinued operations. Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for discontinued operations are presented in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included herein. See Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Worldpay Merchant Solutions disposal group and its discontinued operations. In future reports, FIS' share of the net income of the Joint Venture will be reported as equity method investment earnings (loss). 3 Table of Contents As a result of our ongoing portfolio assessments, the Company reclassified certain businesses from Capital Markets to Banking and to Corporate and Other during the quarter ended March 31, 2023, and reclassified certain non-strategic operations from Banking to Corporate and Other during the quarter ended December 31, 2023. The Company recast all prior-period segment information presented to reflect these reclassifications. See "Segment Information" below for additional discussion of our solutions and customers. See also Notes 5 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about our segment revenue. Our consolidated results generally do not reflect pronounced seasonality. However, quarterly revenue and margins for each segment may vary based on the timing of recognition of certain non-recurring revenue, including software licenses and termination fees. For information about current trends in market demand, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Trends and Conditions . " Revenue by Segment The table below summarizes our revenue by reporting segment (in millions): 2023 2022 2021 Banking Solutions $ 6,733 $ 6,624 $ 6,361 Capital Market Solutions 2,766 2,631 2,495 Corporate and Other 322 464 483 Total Consolidated Revenue $ 9,821 $ 9,719 $ 9,339 Banking Solutions ("Banking") The Banking segment is focused on serving financial institutions of all sizes with core processing software, transaction processing software and complementary applications and services, many of which interact directly with core processing software. We sell these solutions on either a bundled or stand-alone basis. Clients in this segment include global financial institutions, U.S. regional and community banks, credit unions and commercial lenders, as well as government institutions and other commercial organizations. We provide our clients integrated solutions characterized by multi-year processing contracts that generate recurring revenue. The predictable nature of cash flows generated from the Banking segment provides opportunities for further investments in innovation, integration, information and security, and compliance in a cost-effective manner. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Core Processing and Ancillary Applications. Our core processing software applications, including deposit and lending, customer management and other central management systems, are designed to run banking processes for our financial institution clients. Clients use these applications to maintain the primary records of their customer accounts. Our diverse selection of market-focused core processing software applications enables FIS to compete effectively in a wide range of markets. We continue to invest in our core modernization efforts to further differentiate our offerings for the long term. We also offer a number of solutions that are ancillary to the primary applications listed above, including branch automation, back-office support systems and compliance support. Digital, including Mobile and Online. Our comprehensive suite of retail and commercial applications enables financial institutions to streamline and integrate customer-facing operations with back-office processes, thereby improving customer experience across channels (e.g., branch, internet, mobile, ATM, and call centers). FIS' focus on real-time consumer access has driven significant market innovation in multi-channel, API-enabled embedded and multi-hosted solutions, underpinned by a strategy that provides tight integration and a seamless customer experience. Our innovative digital banking capabilities are now available to financial institutions of all sizes with continually expanding functionality. Our digital offerings are integrated with core banking platforms offered by FIS and are also offered to customers of non-FIS core systems. Fraud, Risk Management and Compliance. Our decision solutions offer a spectrum of options that cover the account lifecycle from helping to identify qualified account applicants to managing existing customer accounts and fraud. Our applications enable Know Your Customer, new account decisioning and opening, account and transaction management, fraud management and collections. Our risk management solutions use our proprietary risk management 4 Table of Contents models and data sources to assist in detecting fraud and assessing the risk of opening a new account. Our systems use a combination of advanced authentication procedures, predictive analytics, artificial intelligence modeling and proprietary and shared databases to assess and detect fraud risk for deposit, card and other transactions for financial institutions. Card and Retail Payments. Our card and retail payment technology solutions allow clients to issue VISA , MasterCard or other payment network-branded credit and debit cards or other electronic payment cards for use by both consumer and business accounts. Card-based volumes continue to increase, driven by both the number of transactions per month and the value of those transactions. We offer EMV (Europay, MasterCard and Visa) integrated circuit cards, often referred to as chip cards, as well as a variety of stored-value card types and loyalty programs, including our Premium Payback service that allows our financial institutions' customers to use loyalty points at a variety of merchant point-of-sale systems. Our integrated solutions range from card production and activation to processing to an extensive range of fraud management solutions and value-added loyalty programs designed to increase card usage and fee-based revenue for financial institutions and merchants. The majority of our programs are full service, including most of the operations and support necessary for an issuer to operate a credit card program. We do not make credit decisions for our card issuing clients. We are also a leading provider of prepaid card solutions, which include digital cards, gift cards and reloadable cards, with end-to-end solutions for development, processing and administration of stored-value programs, including government benefit programs. Our closed-loop gift card solutions and loyalty programs provide merchants compelling solutions to drive consumer loyalty. Electronic Funds Transfer and Network. Our electronic funds transfer and debit card processing businesses offer settlement and card management solutions for financial institution card issuers. We provide traditional ATM-based debit network access through NYCE, other branded networks, and emerging real-time payment alternatives. Our networks connect millions of cards and point-of-sale locations nationwide, providing consumers with secure, real-time access to their money. Also through our networks, clients such as financial institutions, retailers and independent ATM operators can capitalize on the efficiency, consumer convenience and security of electronic real-time payments, real-time account-to-account transfers, and strategic alliances such as surcharge-free ATM network arrangements. Wealth and Retirement. We provide wealth and retirement solutions that help banks, trust companies, brokerage firms, insurance firms, retirement plan professionals, benefit administrators and independent advisors acquire, service and grow their client relationships. We provide solutions for client acquisition, transaction management, trust accounting and recordkeeping that can be deployed stand-alone, as part of an integrated wealth or retirement platform, or on an outsourced basis. Item Processing and Output Solutions. Our item processing solutions furnish financial institutions with the technology needed to capture data from checks, transaction tickets and other items; image and sort items; process exceptions through keying; and perform balancing, archiving and the production of statements. Our item processing services are performed at one of our multiple item processing centers located throughout the U.S. or on-site at client locations. Our extensive solutions include distributed (i.e., non-centralized) data capture, mobile deposit capture, check and remittance processing, fraud detection, and document and report management. Clients encompass banks and corporations of all sizes, from de novo banks to the largest financial institutions and corporations. We offer a number of output solutions that are ancillary to the primary solutions we provide, including print and mail capabilities, document composition software and solutions, and card personalization fulfillment solutions. Our print and mail solutions offer complete computer output solutions for the creation, management and delivery of print and fulfillment needs. We provide our card personalization fulfillment solutions for branded credit cards and branded and non-branded debit and prepaid cards. Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") The Capital Markets segment is focused on serving global financial services clients and corporations with a broad array of buy-and sell-side, treasury, risk management and lending solutions. Clients in this segment include asset managers, sell-side securities brokerage and trading firms, insurers, private equity firms, asset and auto financiers and other commercial organizations. Our solutions include a variety of mission-critical buy- and sell-side applications for recordkeeping, data and analytics, trading and financing as well as corporate treasury and risk management applications. Capital Markets clients purchase our solutions in various ways including licensing and managing technology "in-house," using consulting and third-party service providers, as well as procuring fully outsourced end-to-end solutions. Our long-established relationships with many of these financial and commercial institutions generate significant recurring revenue. We have made, and continue to 5 Table of Contents make, investments in modern platforms, advanced technologies, open APIs, machine learning and artificial intelligence, and regulatory technology to support our Capital Markets clients. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Trading and Asset Services. We offer solutions that support our customers across the buy side and sell side of the capital markets industry, assisting them to control their front, middle and back office operations through integrated ecosystems. Our solutions support institutional investors, managers, broker-dealers, asset servicers and transfer agents across all asset classes including private equity, hedge, credit, and traditional. Our trading applications focus on advanced trade life-cycle management, including market making and risk management, cleared derivatives processing, securities processing and securities finance, tax processing, and regulatory compliance, including anti-money laundering (AML) and trade surveillance. Our Asset Servicing solutions support every stage of the investment process, from research and portfolio management to order and position management, valuation, risk management, corporate actions, reconciliation, investment accounting, investor accounting, transfer agency and client reporting. Our solutions improve both investment decision making and operational efficiency, while managing risk and increasing transparency across the industry. Lending . Our lending solutions offer full life-cycle commercial lending functionality from loan origination, commercial credit assessment and customer risk rating to loan servicing and data analytics. We also offer the leveraged and syndicated loan markets solutions that manage amendments, secondary market trading, deal management and bookrunning. In the asset finance space, we offer a single, end-to-end leasing platform that helps auto and equipment finance companies manage the entire financing process, supporting origination and pricing, credit decisioning, contract management, servicing and collections. Treasury and Risk. Our treasury solutions help chief financial officers and treasurers manage working capital by reducing risk and improving communication and response time between a company's buyers, suppliers, banks, and other stakeholders. Our end-to-end financial management framework helps bring together receivables, treasury, and payments for a single view of cash and risk, which helps our clients optimize business processes for enhanced liquidity management. Our risk portfolio of solutions manages market and credit risk and regulatory compliance for banks and actuarial risk for insurance firms. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment consists of corporate overhead expense, certain leveraged functions and miscellaneous expenses that are not included in the operating segments, as well as certain non-strategic businesses that we plan to wind down or sell. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to corporate marketing, finance, accounting, human resources, legal, compliance and internal audit functions as well as other costs, such as acquisition, integration and transformation-related expenses and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, that are not considered when management evaluates revenue-generating segment performance. Sales and Marketing Our sales personnel have expertise in particular solutions, geographic markets and industry verticals as well as across our various client segments. We believe that focusing our expertise on clients in specific markets and tailoring integrated solution sets to participants in those markets enables us to better serve our clients and makes our offerings more attractive to prospects. We target the majority of our prospects via direct and/or indirect field sales, as well as inbound and outbound lead generation, telesales and virtual sales efforts. Our global marketing team develops and leads the execution of global, industry-specific and geographic-based strategic marketing plans in support of the segments' reputation and relationship building goals in addition to their revenue and profitability goals. Key components of our strategic plans include brand amplification and digital enablement; market and competitive research; voice of the customer and client engagement; thought leadership; integrated go-to-market programs; internal communications and readiness; journalists and social media engagement, industry analyst relations; client events; trade shows; high-touch client programs; demand generation campaigns; account- and deal-based marketing programs; collateral development and management across digital and online channels; and the launch of new products to market. 6 Table of Contents Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property In general, we own the intellectual property and proprietary rights that are necessary to conduct our business and are important to our future success, including trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights and patents. We license certain items from third parties under arms-length agreements for varying terms, including some "open source" licenses. We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, internal security practices, patents, trade secrets, copyrights and applicable law to establish and protect our software, technology and expertise worldwide. We rely on trademark law to protect our rights in our brands. We intend to continue taking commercially reasonable measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including by legal action when necessary and appropriate. Competition The markets for our solutions are intensely competitive. Depending on the business line, our primary competitors include, but are not limited to, internal technology or software development departments within financial institutions or other large companies, global and regional companies providing payment services, third-party payment processors, payment facilitators, embedded payment solution providers, securities exchanges, asset managers, card associations, clearing networks or associations, trust companies, independent computer services firms, companies that develop and deploy software applications, companies owned by global banks selling competitive solutions, companies that provide customized development, implementation and support services, emerging technology innovators, and business process outsourcing companies. Many of these companies compete with us across multiple solutions, markets and geographies. Some of these competitors possess greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do. Competitive factors impacting the success of our solutions include the quality of the technology-based application or service, application features and functions, ease of delivery and integration, the ability to maintain, enhance and support the applications or solutions, price and overall relationship management. We believe that we compete vigorously in each of these categories. In addition, we believe our domain expertise, combined with our ability to offer multiple applications, services and integrated solutions, enhances our competitiveness against companies with more limited offerings. Our ability to innovate and scale digital payments and solutions has been a competitive advantage as well. Research and Development Our research and development activities primarily relate to the modernization of our proprietary core processing software applications and the design and development of next generation digital solutions, processing systems, software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. In addition, we intend to offer solutions compatible with new and emerging delivery channels. As part of our research and development process, we evaluate current and emerging technology for compatibility with our existing and future software platforms. To this end, we engage with various hardware and software vendors in the evaluation of various new and existing technologies. Where appropriate, we use third-party technology components in the development of our software applications and service offerings. We typically utilize enterprise license agreements or strive to ensure that either alternative suppliers or transfer rights exist in order to ensure the continuity of supply of third-party technology components used in the development of our software applications and service offerings. As a result, we are not materially dependent upon any third-party technology components. Third-party software may be used for highly specialized business functions depending on our ability to develop the functionality internally within time and budget constraints. Additionally, third-party software may be used for routine, commonplace functions within a technology platform environment. We work with our clients to determine the appropriate timing and approach to introduce technology or infrastructure changes to