Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Information About Our Executive Officers 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. [Reserved] 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 43 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 96 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 96 Item 9B. Other Information 98 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 98 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 98 Item 11. Executive Compensation 98 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 98 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 99 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 99 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 100 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 103 Signatures 104 i Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those that express a plan, belief, expectation, estimation, anticipation, intent, contingency, future development, outlook, or similar expression, and can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as believes, anticipates, expects, could, should, confident, likely, plan, or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report involve significant risks and uncertainties, and a number of factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. The factors that may affect our results include, among others, the following: our ability to compete effectively against new and existing competitors and to continue to introduce competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; changes in customer demand for our products and services; the ability of our technology to keep pace with a rapidly evolving marketplace; the success of our merchant alliances, some of which we do not control; the impact of a security breach or operational failure on our business, including disruptions caused by other participants in the global financial system; losses due to chargebacks, refunds or returns as a result of fraud or the failure of our vendors and merchants to satisfy their obligations; changes in local, regional, national and international economic or political conditions, including those resulting from heightened inflation, rising interest rates, a recession, bank failures, or intensified international hostilities, and the impact they may have on us and our employees, clients, vendors, supply chain, operations and sales; the effect of proposed and enacted legislative and regulatory actions affecting us or the financial services industry as a whole; our ability to comply with government regulations and applicable card association and network rules; the protection and validity of intellectual property rights; the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings; our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, and to realize the anticipated benefits associated with the same; the impact of our strategic initiatives; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; volatility and disruptions in financial markets that may impact our ability to access preferred sources of financing and the terms on which we are able to obtain financing or increase our costs of borrowing; adverse impacts from currency exchange rates or currency controls; changes in corporate tax and interest rates; and other factors identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at http://www.sec.gov. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report. We are not including the information provided on the websites referenced herein as part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 1 Table of Contents PART I In this report, all references to we, us, our and Fiserv refer to Fiserv, Inc. ( Fiserv ), and, unless the context otherwise requires, its consolidated subsidiaries. Item 1. Business Overview Fiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of payments and financial services technology solutions. We are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange and part of the S P 500 Index. We serve clients around the globe, including merchants, banks, credit unions, other financial institutions and corporate clients. We help clients achieve best-in-class results through a commitment to innovation and excellence in areas including account processing and digital banking solutions; card issuer processing and network services; payments; e-commerce; merchant acquiring and processing; and the Clover cloud-based point-of-sale ( POS ) and business management platform. Most of the products and services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. We serve our global client base by working among our geographic teams across various regions, including the United States of America ( U.S. ) and Canada; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Latin America; and Asia Pacific. In 2023, we had $19.1 billion in total revenue, $5.0 billion in operating income and $5.2 billion of net cash provided by operating activities. Processing and services revenue, which in 2023 represented 82% of our total revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under multi-year contracts that generally have high renewal rates. We have operations and offices located both within the U.S. and Canada, and internationally. Revenue from products and services as a percentage of total revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, (In millions) 2023 2022 2021 Total revenue $ 19,093 $ 17,737 $ 16,226 Domestic 85 % 86 % 86 % International (1) 15 % 14 % 14 % (1) Represents revenue in the following international regions: EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), LATAM (Latin America) and APAC (Asia-Pacific). We have grown our business organically and through acquisitions by signing new clients, expanding the products and services we provide to existing clients, offering new and enhanced products and services developed through innovation and acquisition, and extending our capabilities geographically, all of which have enabled us to deliver a wide range of products and services and created new opportunities for growth. Our operations are comprised of the Merchant Acceptance ( Acceptance ) segment, the Financial Technology ( Fintech ) segment and the Payments and Network ( Payments ) segment. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000. We are relocating our global headquarters location to Milwaukee, Wisconsin in March 2024. Acceptance The businesses in our Acceptance segment provide a wide range of commerce-enabling solutions and serve merchants of all sizes around the world. Acceptance solutions enable businesses to securely accept payment transactions online or in-person. Payment transactions include credit, debit, stored-value and loyalty payments online or through a physical POS or mobile device, such as a smartphone or tablet. The solutions in this segment include merchant acquiring and digital commerce services; mobile payment services; security and fraud protection products; Clover, our cloud-based POS and integrated commerce operating system for small and mid-sized businesses ( SMBs ) and independent software vendors ( ISVs ); and Carat , our integrated operating system for large businesses. The businesses in our Acceptance segment distribute products and services through a variety of channels, including direct sales teams, strategic partnerships with agent sales forces, ISVs, financial institutions, and other strategic partners in the form of joint venture alliances, revenue sharing alliances ( RSAs ), and referral agreements. Merchants, financial institutions and distribution partners in the Acceptance segment are frequently clients of our other segments. 2 Table of Contents Clover Clover is our cloud-based POS and integrated commerce operating system for SMBs and ISVs designed for business management. The Clover platform includes hardware and software technology necessary to enable SMB merchants to accept payments, process transactions, provide online ordering, maintain an e-commerce presence, and generate consumer loyalty through Clover s customer engagement tools. By integrating next-generation hardware and software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) applications, along with value-added solutions, Clover has become a leader in enabling omnichannel commerce solutions for SMBs and ISVs, with touchless commerce through QR code-based payments, online ordering solutions, and virtual terminals. We also offer small business owners access to capital through our Clover Capital cash advance program. Carat Carat is our integrated operating system for large businesses, designed to enable clients to accept more payments, engage more customers, and optimize commerce. Carat helps clients maximize approval rates, reduce declines, lower fraud and chargebacks, reduce costs and improve the customer experience by enabling new capabilities, such as buying online, picking up in store or ordering ahead. Through this integrated operating system, numerous payment and commerce solutions can be accessed, including payment acceptance, payments optimization, network routing, fraud detection, online electronic benefits transfers and digital payouts. This wide variety of services enables Carat to help clients create more revenue, reduce their cost of payments, reach more consumers, and enable innovative omnichannel transactions such as voice-enabled commerce and payments. Distribution Channels and Partnerships Acceptance segment businesses distribute solutions and services through direct sales teams, as well as indirect sales channels, such as agent sales forces, ISVs, value-added resellers ( VARs ), and payment service providers ( PSPs ). We provide agent sales forces, ISVs, VARs and PSPs with specialized sales capabilities and integrated merchant technology solutions to help them grow their businesses and manage their portfolios. Partner technology tools enable real-time access to portfolio activity and pricing management. We also provide marketing services, data analytics and other tools that enable partners to further expand their businesses in local communities, specific industry verticals, and through e-commerce channels. In addition, the businesses in our Acceptance segment leverage powerful sales capabilities for financial institution and non-financial institution partners to distribute their products and solutions through strategic arrangements including joint venture alliances, RSAs and referral agreements. These strategic alliances combine our commerce-enabling technology, processing capabilities and management expertise with the distribution capabilities, footprint and customer relationships of our partners. Fintech The businesses in our Fintech segment provide financial institutions around the world with the technology solutions they need to run their operations, including products and services that enable financial institutions to process customer deposit and loan accounts and manage an institution s general ledger and central information files. As a complement to the core account processing functionality, the Fintech segment businesses also provide digital banking, financial and risk management, professional services and consulting, check processing, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Certain of the businesses in the Fintech segment provide products or services to corporate clients to facilitate the management of financial processes and transactions. Many of the products and services offered in the Fintech segment are integrated with products and services provided by our other segments. Core Account Processing Solutions We provide account servicing and management technology products and services to our depository institution clients, as well as a range of integrated, value-added banking products and services. Account processing solutions enable a financial institution to operate systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution s general ledger, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also include security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their customers. Although many of our clients obtain a majority of their processing requirements from us, our software design allows clients to start with one application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduce a new client s initial conversion expenses, enhance existing clients ability to change technology and broaden our market opportunity. The principal account processing solutions used by our depository institution clients are Finxact, Cleartouch , DNA , Precision , Premier , Signature and Portico . All of these systems are available in the U.S., and the DNA and Signature platforms are also available globally. Account processing solutions are offered primarily as an outsourced service or can be installed on client-owned computer systems or those hosted by third parties. 3 Table of Contents Our account processing business also provides consulting services, business operations services and related software products that enable the transition of check capture from branch and teller channels to digital self-service deposit channels, including mobile, merchant and ATM. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide check clearing and image exchange services. Other products and services include image archive with online retrieval, in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements, and fraud detection. Our deposit liquidity solutions enable our clients to retain, monetize and grow their deposit account base while analyzing customer demand and enabling customer short-term liquidity. Our decision management solutions include Nautilus , a content management product, and Prologue Financials, which combines enterprise performance management and financial control offerings to deliver budgeting, planning, financial accounting, and automated reconciliation and account certification tools to our clients. These solutions are further complemented by fraud detection and mitigation through our fraud and financial crime risk management solutions. Digital Financial Solutions Our digital financial solutions business includes Experience Digital ( XD ), our principal consumer and business digital banking platform, which includes our Configure , Architect , Corillian Online , Mobiliti and Create products. XD is a cloud-based platform that enables customers to perform balance inquiries, view their transaction history and access electronic bill payments, person-to-person digital payments, card services, account and loan originations, funds transfer and personal financial management tools. XD can be highly customized and integrated to multiple products and services, allowing clients to deploy new services quickly and efficiently to increase customer acquisition, engagement and insights. Enterprise Payment Solutions Our enterprise payment solutions products and services enable operating efficiencies and management insight by providing financial institutions with the infrastructure they need to process, route and settle non-card-based electronic payments, including Automated Clearing House ( ACH ), wire and instant payments, and to efficiently manage associated information flows. Our enterprise payment solutions business includes our Payments Exchange platform, which provides multiple payment capabilities, including domestic and international wire transfers and real time payments connection to the FedNow Service and RTP Network. Enterprise Payments Platform is a multi-entity, multi-country, multi-currency, multi-clearings, single payments platform processing all payment types, connecting financial institutions to clearings and correspondents wherever they operate. PEP+ is another enterprise payment solutions offering, which is a mainframe system that allows financial institutions to automatically receive and originate electronic payments through the ACH network in a straight-through processing manner. Clients may use our payment platform applications on a licensed or hosted basis, and as an add-on to existing legacy technology or as a stand-alone comprehensive modern payments platform. Payments The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and corporate and public sector clients with the products and services required to process digital payment transactions. This includes card transactions such as debit, credit and prepaid card processing and services; a range of network services such as funds access, debit payments, cardless ATM access and surcharge-free ATM networks; security and fraud protection products; and card production and print services. In addition, the Payments segment businesses offer non-card digital payment software and services, including bill payment, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payments, electronic billing, and security and fraud protection products. Clients of the Payments segment businesses reflect a wide range of industries, including merchants, distribution partners and financial institutions customers in our other segments. Debit and Network Processing Our debit and network processing business provides a comprehensive payments solution through a variety of products and services. We provide financial institution clients with a full range of debit processing services, including tokenization, loyalty and reward programs; customized authorization processing; gateway processing to payment networks; ATM managed services and cash and logistics management; and risk management products. Our debit processing also provides security, risk and fraud management solutions, which incorporate machine-learning-based predictive technology, that help financial institutions securely operate and grow their business by preventing fraud. CardHub provides our clients customers with mobile, customizable card management and alert tools that drive engagement and revenue for card issuers. Credit Choice, a fully managed credit card issuing-as-a-service solution, allows community financial institutions to offer their customers a branded credit card that is integrated into their debit solutions without the operational burden of managing their own credit card portfolio. 4 Table of Contents We own and operate the Accel , STAR and MoneyPass networks, which provide access to funds for debit card purchases through any physical and online channel, with or without a PIN/signature; and support transactions at ATMs, with or without a surcharge, including CardFree Cash . These networks are available to all issuers and merchants in the U.S. Credit Processing Our credit processing business provides solutions to financial institutions and other issuers of credit, such as group service providers, retailers and consumer finance companies, to enable them to process credit card transactions on behalf of their customers. Depending on the needs of our client, we deliver these solutions through our proprietary processing platforms, software application licenses, or software-as-a-service hosted in the cloud. Our solutions in North America primarily use our Optis platform to provide transaction authorization and posting, account maintenance and settlement. Our VisionPLUS software is used outside of the U.S. as both a processing solution and a licensed software solution that enables some clients to process transactions on their own. We also provide financial institutions with solutions that support the lifecycle of a cardholder, including acquisition, fraud detection, credit risk management, servicing, collections and professional services. Output Solutions Our Output Solutions business provides business statement and card products and services to clients across a wide variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, retail, utilities, telecommunications, insurance and travel and entertainment. Our products and services include electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; and design and fulfillment of direct mail services. Digital and Bill Payments Our digital and bill payments business is comprised of electronic bill payment and presentment services, as well as other digital payment solutions for businesses and consumers, including person-to-person payments, account-to-account transfers and account opening and funding. Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product for financial and other institutions, CheckFree RXP , allows our clients customers to manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; view billing and payment information; pay and manage all of their bills in one place; and complete same-day or next-day bill payments to a wide range of billers and others. In addition, CashFlow Central , an integrated digital payment and cash flow management experience, enables financial institutions to better meet the payments needs of small businesses. Our person-to-person payments and account-to-account transfer services allow consumers a convenient way to send and receive money while offering financial institutions the opportunity to generate new transaction-based revenue, attract new accounts and increase loyalty among existing customers. We partner with Early Warning Services, LLC to offer a turnkey implementation of its Zelle real-time person-to-person payments service. Our turnkey solution simplifies the implementation of Zelle by providing interface, risk management, alerting, settlement and other services to clients. Biller Solutions Our biller solutions business provides electronic billing and payment services to companies that deliver bills to their customers, such as utilities, telephone and cable companies, lending institutions and insurance providers. These services enable our clients to reduce costs, collect payments faster through multiple channels and increase customer satisfaction, and provide customers flexible, easy-to-use ways to view and pay their bills. Our clients customers access our electronic billing and payment systems by viewing or paying a bill through a financial institution s bill payment application, using a biller s website, mobile application, automated phone system or customer service representative, or by paying in-person at one of the many nationwide walk-in payment locations. Because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or in-house-developed systems. Prepaid Solutions Our prepaid solutions include stored value cards offered by our Gift Solutions and Money Network businesses. The Gift Solutions business provides end-to-end, omnichannel solutions to securely implement and manage gift card programs that help clients drive revenue, engagement and loyalty. These solutions include physical and digital gift card fulfillment, program management, e-commerce gift card storefronts, security and fraud protection, transaction processing services, incentive and rebate cards as well as reloadable and non-reloadable prepaid cards that may be used with a variety of mobile applications. The Money Network service simplifies payment distribution for organizations while reducing or eliminating expenses associated with issuing traditional paper checks. This service also provides consumers without bank accounts with fast, digital access to their money, including wages. Money Network solutions include Electronic Payroll Delivery, government disbursements, digital disbursements and corporate incentives as well as single-load and reloadable prepaid account options. Account holders 5 Table of Contents of the Money Network Electronic Payroll Delivery Service have access to a Money Network Card, Money Network Checks and a robust mobile app to manage their account anytime, anywhere. Segment Realignment We are effecting changes in our business designed to further enhance operational performance in the delivery of our integrated portfolio of products and solutions to our financial institution clients. As a result, we expect to realign our reportable segments to correspond with these organizational changes, which we expect to be completed effective for the quarter ending March 31, 2024. We continue to allocate resources and assess performance based on the current reportable segment structure. Our Strategy Our aspiration is to move money and information in a way that moves the world. Our purpose is to deliver superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships that are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework: Client Relationship Value . We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other actions: continuing to integrate our products and services; introducing new products and services that are aligned with market needs; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and delivering quality service and support for our clients. Innovation . We seek to be an innovation leader, utilizing our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our industry and enable our clients to deliver best-in-class results. Operational Effectiveness . We believe we can further improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities created by our size and scale. Portfolio Management . We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale that enables competition and operational efficiency; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. Capital Discipline . We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters: internal investment; repayment of debt; repurchases of our own shares; or acquisitions. Servicing the Market The financial technology industry is highly dynamic, with new innovations entering the market and driving the expectations of our clients globally. The markets for our solutions have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on quality, security, service reliability, timely introduction of new capabilities and features, flexibility and value. This requires us to continue our focus on product and service delivery, integration and innovation to meet and exceed the specific needs of our clients. We believe that our financial strength and specialized market knowledge enable us to support our clients to meet their changing preferences. In addition, we believe that our focus on quality, innovation, client service and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to identify and fulfill the needs of our clients. Product Development To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. Our development and technology operations apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized products and processing systems. Our products and solutions are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific merchant and financial services environments of our clients. In developing our products, we use current software development principles, such as service-oriented architecture, to create effi