Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Information About Our Executive Officers 24 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 103 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 103 Item 9B. Other Information 105 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 105 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 105 Item 11. Executive Compensation 105 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 106 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 106 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 107 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 111 Signatures 112 i Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those that express a plan, belief, expectation, estimation, anticipation, intent, contingency, future development or similar expression, and can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as believes, anticipates, expects, could, should or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report involve significant risks and uncertainties, and a number of factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. The factors that may affect our results include, among others, the following, many of which are, and may continue to be, amplified by the COVID-19 pandemic: the duration and intensity of the COVID-19 pandemic including how quickly the global economy recovers from the impact of the pandemic; governmental and private sector responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of such responses on us; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our employees, clients, vendors, supply chain, operations and sales; our ability to compete effectively against new and existing competitors and to continue to introduce competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; changes in customer demand for our products and services; the ability of our technology to keep pace with a rapidly evolving marketplace; the success of our merchant alliances, some of which we do not control; the impact of a security breach or operational failure on our business including disruptions caused by other participants in the global financial system; the failure of our vendors and merchants to satisfy their obligations; the successful management of credit and fraud risks in our business and merchant alliances; changes in local, regional, national and international economic or political conditions and the impact they may have on us and our customers; the effect of proposed and enacted legislative and regulatory actions affecting us or the financial services industry as a whole; our ability to comply with government regulations and applicable card association and network rules; the protection and validity of intellectual property rights; the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings; our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, and to realize the anticipated benefits associated with the same; the impact of our strategic initiatives; our ability to attract and retain key personnel; volatility and disruptions in financial markets that may impact our ability to access preferred sources of financing and the terms on which we are able to obtain financing or increase our cost of borrowing; adverse impacts from currency exchange rates or currency controls; changes in corporate tax and interest rates; and other factors identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report. We are not including the information provided on the websites referenced herein as part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 1 Table of Contents PART I In this report, all references to we, us, our and Fiserv refer to Fiserv, Inc. ( Fiserv ), and, unless the context otherwise requires, its consolidated subsidiaries. Item 1. Business Overview Fiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of payments and financial services technology solutions. We are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and part of the S P 500 Index. We serve clients around the globe, including merchants, banks, credit unions, other financial institutions and corporate clients. We help clients achieve best-in-class results through a commitment to innovation and excellence in areas including account processing and digital banking solutions; card issuer processing and network services; payments; e-commerce; merchant acquiring and processing; and the Clover cloud-based point-of-sale and business management platform. Most of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. We service our global client base by working among our geographic teams across various regions: the United States and Canada; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Latin America; and Asia Pacific. In 2021, we had $16.2 billion in total revenue, $2.3 billion in operating income and $4.0 billion of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations. Processing and services revenue, which in 2021 represented 82% of our total revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under multi-year contracts that generally have high renewal rates. We have operations and offices located both within the United States (the U.S. or domestic ) and outside of the U.S. ( international ) with revenues from domestic and international products and services as a percentage of total revenue as follows for the years ended December 31: (In millions) 2021 2020 2019 Total revenue $ 16,226 $ 14,852 $ 10,187 Domestic 86 % 87 % 88 % International 14 % 13 % 12 % We have grown our business organically and through acquisitions, by signing new clients, expanding the products and services we provide to existing clients, offering new and enhanced products and services developed through innovation and acquisition, and extending our capabilities geographically, all of which have enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services and created new opportunities for growth. Our operations are comprised of the Merchant Acceptance ( Acceptance ) segment, the Financial Technology ( Fintech ) segment and the Payments and Network ( Payments ) segment. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000. Acceptance The businesses in our Acceptance segment provide a wide range of commerce-enabling solutions and serve merchants of all sizes around the world. Acceptance solutions enable businesses to securely accept consumers electronic payment transactions online or in-person. Payment transactions include credit, debit, stored-value and loyalty payments, whether at a physical point-of-sale ( POS ) device, a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet, or an e-commerce transaction over the internet. The services in this segment include POS merchant acquiring and digital commerce services; mobile payment services; security and fraud protection products; Carat SM , our omnichannel commerce ecosystem; Clover, our cloud-based point-of-sale and business management platform; and Clover Connect, our independent software vendor ( ISV ) platform. We distribute the products and services in the global Acceptance businesses through a variety of channels, including direct sales teams, strategic partnerships with independent sales agents, independent sales organizations ( ISOs ), ISVs, financial institutions, and other strategic partners in the form of joint venture alliances, revenue sharing alliances ( RSAs ), and referral agreements. Merchants, financial institutions and distribution partners in the Acceptance segment are frequently clients of our other segments. Carat Carat is our global omnichannel commerce ecosystem designed to enable large businesses to accept more payments, engage more customers, and optimize commerce. Carat helps clients to do everything from accepting e-commerce payments to enabling new consumer experiences such as buy online, pickup in store or online order ahead. Through a single integration, a variety of payment and commerce solutions can be accessed, including global payment acceptance, payments optimization, 2 Table of Contents network routing, fraud detection, online electronic benefits transfers and digital payouts. By offering this wide variety of services, Carat helps clients create more revenue, reduce their cost of payments, reach more consumers, and enable innovative omnichannel transactions such as voice-enabled commerce and payments. Clover Built for small and mid-sized businesses ( SMBs ), our cloud-based Clover POS platform is a comprehensive business-management solution that enables businesses to maximize their operating efficiencies, while allowing their customers to pay using a debit or credit card or via mobile payment options. The Clover platform includes hardware and software technology necessary to enable SMB merchants to accept payments, process transactions, provide online ordering, maintain an e-commerce presence, and generate consumer loyalty through Clover s customer engagement tools. Clover is one of the largest open architecture platforms of commerce-enabling solutions and applications in the world. By integrating next-generation hardware and software applications, Clover has also become a leader in enabling omnichannel commerce solutions for SMBs, with touchless commerce through QR code-based payments, online ordering solutions, or a virtual terminal. Clover solutions also help small business owners gain faster access to capital through advanced access to receivables. Distribution Channels and Partnerships Acceptance businesses distribute solutions and services through direct sales teams, as well as partnerships with hundreds of indirect non-bank sales forces, including independent sales agents, ISOs, ISVs, value-added resellers ( VARs ), and payment service providers ( PSPs ). Partnerships with ISOs, ISVs, VARs and PSPs provide specialized sales capabilities and integrated merchant technology solutions to support our partners, help them grow their business and manage their portfolios. Partner technology tools enable real-time access to portfolio activity and pricing management. We also provide marketing services, data analytics and other tools that enable partners to further expand their businesses through local communities, e-commerce channels, and specific industry verticals. In addition, the businesses in our Acceptance segment leverage powerful sales capabilities for hundreds of financial institution and non-financial institution partners to distribute their products and solutions through strategic arrangements including joint venture alliances, RSAs, and referral agreements. These strategic alliances combine our commerce-enabling technology, processing capabilities and management expertise with the distribution capabilities, footprint and customer relationships of our partners. Fintech The businesses in our Fintech segment provide financial institutions around the world with the technology solutions they need to run their operations, including products and services that enable financial institutions to process customer deposit and loan accounts and manage an institution s general ledger and central information files. As a complement to the core account processing functionality, the businesses in the global Fintech segment also provide digital banking, financial and risk management, professional services and consulting, item processing and source capture, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Certain of the businesses in the Fintech segment provide products or services to corporate clients to facilitate the management of financial processes and transactions. Many of the products and services offered in the Fintech segment are integrated with products and services provided by our other segments. Account Processing We provide account servicing and management technology products and services to our depository institution clients, as well as a range of integrated, value-added banking products and services. Account processing solutions enable a financial institution to operate systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution s general ledger, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also include security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their customers, as well as to facilitate compliance with applicable regulations. Although many of our clients obtain a majority of their processing requirements from us, our software design allows clients to start with one application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduce a new client s initial conversion expenses, enhance existing clients ability to change technology and broaden our market opportunity. The principal account processing solutions used by our depository institution clients are Cleartouch , DNA , Precision , Premier , Signature and Portico . The DNA and Signature solutions are available both domestically and internationally. Account processing solutions are offered primarily as an outsourced service or can be installed on client-owned computer systems or those hosted by third parties. 3 Table of Contents Our account processing business also provides consulting services, business operations services and related software products that enable the transition of check capture from branch and teller channels to digital self-service deposit channels, including mobile, merchant and ATM. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide check clearing and image exchange services. Other products and services include image archive with online retrieval, in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements, and fraud detection. Financial and Risk Management Solutions Our Financial and Risk Management Solutions business provides products and services that deliver operating efficiencies and management insight that enable our clients to protect, manage and grow their businesses. Our Digital Efficiency solutions include Frontier (a reconciliation product), Nautilus (a content management product) and Prologue Financials, which combines enterprise performance management and financial control offerings to deliver budgeting, planning, financial accounting, and automated reconciliation and account certification tools to our clients. Our Deposit Liquidity solutions enable our clients to retain, monetize and grow their deposit account base while analyzing customer demand and providing for customer short-term liquidity. Our commercial payments solutions provide financial institutions with the infrastructure they need to process, route and settle non-card-based electronic payments, including Automated Clearing House ( ACH ), wire and instant payments, and to efficiently manage associated information flows. Clients may use our payment platform applications on a licensed or hosted basis, and as an add-on to existing legacy technology or as a stand-alone comprehensive modern payments platform. These solutions are further complemented by fraud detection and mitigation through our Fraud and Financial Crime Risk Management solutions. Digital Solutions Our principal digital consumer and business digital banking platforms are Abiliti SM , Architect , Corillian Online , and Mobiliti . Abiliti is our next-generation digital banking platform providing a single solution for consumers and businesses and serving as a gateway to our digital ecosystem. It is a cloud-based platform designed to deliver continuous innovation and new functionality to increase efficiency, engagement and insights for a digital-first experience. Architect is a premium open-architecture platform providing seamless online, mobile and tablet banking for retail and small business customers and offers extensive customizations and integrations to create unique digital experiences. Our Corillian platform supports multiple lines of banking for consumers and businesses and is designed to be highly scalable to meet the evolving needs of banks and credit unions, allowing clients to deploy new services through integrations of digital applications. Our Mobiliti platform provides a variety of mobile banking and payments services to our clients and their customers via mobile browser and a downloadable application for smartphones and tablets, designed for a mobile-first experience. Each of these solutions allows customers to complete balance inquiries and view their transaction history, and enables access to our digital ecosystem, including electronic bill payments, person-to-person digital payments, funds transfer between accounts and to other people, and personal financial management tools. Enhancing our digital banking platform capabilities are our Originate SM suite, SecureNow , Credit Sense SM , and LinkLive. The Originate family, including Deposit Director, Loan Director and Mortgage Director, enables digital account opening and loan origination services supporting multi-channel strategies for financial institutions. This suite is designed to become a single point of origination that qualifies users across the range of digital opening and lending options. Our SecureNow product delivers real-time cybersecurity defense capability, integrating industry-leading controls into a single platform. Our Credit Sense solution helps customers instantly access and monitor credit scores and enables digital marketing offers. LinkLive is a unified, cloud-based multimedia communications solution that includes video communication, online chat and secure messaging, enabling customer engagement and customer servicing automation. Each of these applications are pre-integrated with key Fiserv digital platforms, including Abiliti, Architect, Corillian, Mobiliti and other solutions, for rapid deployment to improve digital experiences. Payments The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and corporate clients around the world with the products and services required to process digital payment transactions. This includes card transactions such as debit, credit and prepaid card processing and services; a range of network services, security and fraud protection products; card production and print services. In addition, the Payments segment businesses offer non-card digital payment software and services, including bill payment, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payments, electronic billing, and security and fraud protection products. Clients of the global Payments segment businesses reflect a wide range of industries, including merchants, distribution partners and financial institution customers in our other segments. 4 Table of Contents Network and Debit Processing Our network and debit processing business is a leader in electronic funds transfer services and provides a comprehensive payments solution through a variety of products and services. We provide financial institution clients with a full range of debit processing services, including ATM managed services and cash and logistics management; tokenization, loyalty and reward programs; customized authorization processing; gateway processing to payment networks; and risk management products. We own and operate the Accel , MoneyPass and STAR networks, which serve financial institutions, providing access to funds at the point-of-sale and via ATMs, inclusive of CardFree Cash SM access as well as via chip and traditional magnetic stripe cards. Our debit processing also provides a range of security, risk and fraud management solutions, which incorporate machine-learning-based predictive technology, that help financial institutions securely operate and grow their business by preventing fraud. Our networks POS support delivers comprehensive coverage of PIN and PIN-less authentication support at physical and e-commerce merchants domestically. CardHub, our digital enablement capability, provides our clients customers with mobile-based, customizable card management and alert tools that drive engagement and revenue for card issuers. Our risk management tools and portfolio management services are integrated with real-time fraud decisioning. In 2021, we introduced Credit Choice, a fully managed credit card issuing-as-a-service solution which allows community financial institutions to offer their customers a branded credit card that is fully integrated into their debit solutions without the operational burden of managing their own credit card portfolio. Credit Processing Our credit processing business provides solutions to financial institutions and other issuers of credit, such as banks, group service providers, retailers and consumer finance companies, to enable them to process transactions on behalf of their customers. Depending on the market and our clients needs, we deliver these solutions through our proprietary outsourced service platforms, software application licenses, or software-as-a-service hosted in the cloud. Our solutions in North America primarily use our proprietary Optis SM platform to provide transaction authorization and posting, account maintenance and settlement. Our VisionPLUS software is used globally as both a processing solution and a licensed software solution that enables clients to process their own transactions, depending on the market. We also provide financial institutions with professional services and customer contact services, including call center solutions and back-office processing. Output Solutions Our output solutions business provides business communication products and services to clients across a wide variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, retail, utilities and travel and entertainment. We provide various channels for clients to communicate, build relationships and maximize customer engagement and loyalty, while limiting costs of a personalized and integrated consumer experience. Our products and services include electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment of direct mail services; forms distribution; and laser printing and mailing. Digital Payments Our digital payment solutions include person-to-person payments, account-to-account transfers and account opening and funding. Our person-to-person payments and account-to-account transfer services allow consumers a convenient way to send and receive money while offering financial institutions the opportunity to generate new transaction-based revenue, attract new accounts and increase loyalty among existing customers. We partner with Early Warning Services, LLC to offer a turnkey implementation of its Zelle real-time person-to-person payments service. Our turnkey solution simplifies the implementation of Zelle by providing interface, risk management, alerting, settlement and other services to clients. Our Aggregation and Information Services products, including AllData Aggregation, provide consumer-permissioned access to account and transaction data, enabling providers to build novel experiences for opening new accounts, planning for financial wellness, providing financial advice and more. Bill Payment Solutions Our bill payment solutions business provides electronic billing, payment and presentment services to our financial institution clients and to companies that deliver bills to their customers, such as utilities, telephone and cable companies, lending institutions, healthcare, and insurance providers. These services enable our clients to reduce costs, collect payments faster through multiple channels, increase customer satisfaction, and provide customers flexible, easy-to-use ways to view and pay their bills. Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product for financial and other institutions, CheckFree RXP , allows our clients customers to: manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; view billing and payment information; pay and manage all of their bills in one place; and complete same-day or next-day bill payments to a wide range of billers and others. Our other biller clients customers access our electronic billing and payment systems by viewing or paying a bill through a financial institution s bill payment application, using a biller s website, mobile application, automated phone 5 Table of Contents system or customer service representative, or by paying in-person at one of the many nationwide walk-in payment locations operated by our agents. These diverse options allow our clients customers to view and pay bills wherever, whenever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or in-house-developed systems. Prepaid Solutions Our prepaid solutions include stored value cards offered by our Gift Solutions and Money Network businesses. The Gift Solutions business provides end-to-end, omnichannel solutions to securely implement and manage gift card programs that help clients drive revenue, engagement and loyalty. These solutions include physical and digital gift card fulfillment, program management, e-commerce gift card storefronts, security and fraud protection, transaction processing services, incentive and rebate cards as well as reloadable and non-reloadable prepaid cards that may be used with a variety of mobile applications. The Money Network service simplifies payment distribution for organizations while reducing or eliminating expenses associated with issuing traditional paper checks. This service also provides consumers without bank accounts with fast, digital access to manage their money, including wages. Money Network solutions include Electronic Payroll Delivery, government disbursements, digital disbursements and corporate incentives as well as single-load and reloadable prepaid account options. Accountholders of the Money Network Electronic Payroll Delivery Service have access to a Money Network Card, Money Network Checks and a robust mobile app to manage their account anytime, anywhere. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic Since early 2020, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic, and various measures imposed by the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions to prevent its spread, have negatively impacted global economic and market conditions, including levels of consumer and business spending. Consequently, our operating performance, primarily within our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses, which earn transaction-based fees, has been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Such uncertainty remains despite improving trends in global economic activity and market conditions. Additional information regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business can be found under the section titled Recent Market Conditions included within Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic can be found under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Strategy Our aspiration is to move money and information in a way that moves the world. Our purpose is to deliver superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships that are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue