Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 23 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant 25 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. Reserved 28 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 75 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 75 Item 9B. Other Information 78 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 78 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 78 Item 11. Executive Compensation 78 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 78 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 78 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 78 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 78 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 78 1 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements and information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. The words believe, expect, anticipate, plan, intend, foresee, should, would, could, or other similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements, which are generally not historic in nature. These forward-looking statements are based on the current expectations and beliefs of Comfort Systems USA, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company ) concerning future developments and their effect on the Company. While the Company s management believes that these forward looking statements are reasonable as and when made, there can be no assurance that future developments affecting the Company will be those that it anticipates, and the Company s actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the development of the industry in which the Company operates, may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, even if our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the development of the industry in which we operate, are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, those results or developments may not be indicative of our results or developments in subsequent periods. All comments concerning the Company s expectations for future revenue and operating results are based on the Company s forecasts for its existing operations and do not include the potential impact of any future acquisitions. The Company s forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company s control) and assumptions that could cause actual future results to differ materially from the Company s historical experience and its present expectations or projections. Known material factors that could cause the Company s actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements are those described in Part I,