ITEM 1. BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 28 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 28 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 28 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 28 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 29 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 30 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 31 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 55 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 56 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 112 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 112 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 112 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 113 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 113 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 113 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 113 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 113 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 114 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 115 SIGNATURES 116 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Background Fox Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is a news, sports and entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in the following segments: Cable Network Programming , which principally consists of the production and licensing of news and sports content distributed primarily through traditional cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunication companies ( traditional MVPDs ) and online multi-channel video programming distributors ( digital MVPDs ), primarily in the U.S. Television , which principally consists of the acquisition, marketing and distribution of broadcast network programming nationally under the FOX brand and the operation of 29 full power broadcast television stations, including 11 duopolies, in the U.S. Of these stations, 18 are affiliated with the FOX Network, 10 are affiliated with MyNetworkTV and one is an independent station. The Television segment also includes Tubi, Inc. ( Tubi ), a free advertising-supported video-on-demand ( AVOD ) service. Other, Corporate and Eliminations , which principally consists of the FOX Studio Lot, Credible Labs Inc. ( Credible ), corporate overhead costs and intracompany eliminations. The FOX Studio Lot, located in Los Angeles, California, provides television and film production services along with office space, studio operation services and includes all operations of the facility. Credible is a U.S. consumer finance marketplace . Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 ( fiscal 2020 ) to FOX, the Company, we or us mean Fox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. FOX became a standalone publicly traded company on March 19, 2019, when Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (now known as TFCF Corporation) ( 21CF ) distributed, on a pro rata basis, all the issued and outstanding common stock of the Company to 21CF stockholders. Following the distribution, the Company s class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the class A common stock ) and class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the class B common stock and, together with the class A common stock, the common stock ) began trading independently on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. We refer to the foregoing as the Transaction. In connection with the Transaction, the Company was formed with a focused portfolio of domestic media assets in live news and sports and original entertainment programming, including leading brands FOX News Media, FOX Sports, FOX Entertainment and FOX Television Stations. The remaining 21CF assets were acquired by The Walt Disney Company ( Disney ) through a series of transactions contemplated by the amended and restated merger agreement among 21CF, Disney and certain Disney subsidiaries, pursuant to which 21CF became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Disney (the Disney Merger ). The Company is party to several agreements that govern certain aspects of the Company s relationship with 21CF and Disney following the Transaction, including a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, transition services agreements, as well as agreements relating to intellectual property licenses, employee matters, commercial arrangements and a studio lot lease. See Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation, to the consolidated and combined financial statements included in this Annual Report for further information about these agreements. The Company s fiscal year ends on June 30 of each year. The Company was incorporated in 2018 under the laws of the State of Delaware. At June 30, 2020, the Company had approximately 9,000 full-time employees. The Company s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 and its telephone number is (212) 852-7000. The Company s website is www.foxcorporation.com . The Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), are available, free of charge, through the Company s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 1 Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical or current fact are forward-looking statements for purposes of federal and state securities laws. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words may, will, should, likely, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, outlook or any other similar words. Although the Company s management believes that the expectations reflected in any of the Company s forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements. The Company s future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause the Company s actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those estimates or projections contained in the Company s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, government regulation, economic, strategic, political and social conditions and the impact of coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) and other widespread health emergencies or pandemics and measures to contain their spread. For more detailed information about these factors, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report speak only as of the date hereof. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement made herein or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Business Overview FOX produces and delivers compelling news, sports and entertainment content through its primary iconic brands, including FOX News Media, FOX Sports, FOX Entertainment and FOX Television Stations. The Company, with a simple structure focused on two principal reporting segments, differentiates itself in a crowded media and entertainment marketplace through the leadership positions of the Company s brands and premium programming, with a focus on live and appointment-based content that brings communities together, a significant presence in major markets and the broad distribution of the Company s content across traditional and digital platforms. Our Competitive Strengths Premium brands that resonate deeply with viewers. Under the banner of the FOX name, we produce and distribute content through some of the world s leading and most valued brands. Our long track record of challenging the status quo emboldens us to continue making innovative decisions, disrupting competitors and forming deeper relationships with audiences. FOX News is among the most influential and recognized news brands in the world. FOX Sports has earned a reputation for bold sports programming and, with its far-reaching presence in virtually every U.S. household, is the premier destination for live sports events and sports commentary. FOX Entertainment is renowned for its engaging primetime entertainment, including the top broadcast entertainment series, The Masked Singer . These brands and others in our portfolio, including our local station affiliates broadcasting under the FOX brand, hold cultural significance with consumers and commercial importance for distributors and advertisers. The quality of our programming and the strength of our brands maximize the value of our content through a combination of affiliate fees and advertising sales. Leadership positions across strategically significant programming platforms. FOX enjoys a leadership position across our core news, sports and entertainment businesses. As linear television viewership declines across the industry, appointment-based programming that is the FOX hallmark remains resilient. FOX News has been the #1 national cable news network for over 18 years and is the top-rated national cable news network in primetime and total viewing across key demographics as of June 2020. A leader in marquee live sports broadcasts, FOX Sports programs Thursday night and Sunday National Football League ( NFL ) football, the Major League Baseball ( MLB ) All-Star Game and World Series and other marquee events, including the F d ration Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) World Cup and the Super Bowl . FOX Sports broadcast of Super Bowl LIV in February 2020 was watched by approximately 150 million unique multiplatform viewers and generated one of the highest revenue days in television history. FOX Entertainment programming ranked #1 among all broadcast network primetime entertainment programming for the 2019-2020 broadcast season in the key Adults 18-49 demographic, moving from last to first in back-to-back seasons, while delivering the top show The Masked Singer , as well as the four highest 2 rated new entertainment series LEGO Masters , 911: Lone Star , Prodigal Son and The Masked Singer: After The Mask. The FOX Television Stations ended fiscal 2020 c overing 18 Nielsen-designated market areas ( DMAs ), including 14 of the 15 largest. Taken together, we believe our leadership positions will continue to support strong affiliate fee revenue growth and sustained advertising revenue, while enabling us to nimbly respond to the challenges relating to rapidly evolving technologies and changes in consumer behavior that traditional media companies are facing. Significant presence and relevance in major domestic markets. The FOX portfolio combines the range of national cable and broadcast networks with the power of tailored local television. FOX News and FOX Business are available in approximately 80 million U.S. households and the FOX Network is available in essentially all U.S. households. Additionally, our 29 owned and operated television stations cover 18 DMAs, including 14 of the 15 largest, and maintain duopolies in 11 DMAs, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the three largest. These stations provide balanced content of national interest with programming of note to local communities, producing over 1,000 hours of local news coverage each week. The breadth and depth of our footprint allows us to produce and distribute our content in a cost-effective manner and share best business practices and models across regions. It also enables us to engage audiences, develop deeper consumer relationships and create more compelling product offerings. Attractive financial profile, including multiple revenue streams, strong balance sheet and tax asset benefit. We have achieved strong revenue growth and profitability in a complex industry environment over the past several years, led by affiliate fee increases. Additionally, our strong balance sheet provides us with the financial flexibility to continue to invest across our businesses, allocate resources toward investments in growth initiatives, take advantage of strategic opportunities, including potential acquisitions across the range of media categories in which we operate, and return capital to our stockholders. We also benefit from a tax asset that resulted from the step-up in the tax basis of our assets following the Transaction, which will provide an annual cash tax benefit for many years. Goals and Strategies Maintain leading positions in live news, live sports and quality entertainment. We have long been a leader in news, sports and entertainment programming. We believe that building on our leading market positions is essential to our success. We are investing in our most attractive growth opportunities by allocating capital to our news, sports and original entertainment programming, which we believe have distinct competitive advantages. For example, we have continued our investments in digital properties at FOX News Media, including additional investments in the FOX Nation subscription video-on-demand ( SVOD ) service and the rebranding of the FOX Business suite of digital products. FOX Sports has extended the FOX Sports brand through a partnership with The Stars Group (subsequently acquired by Flutter Entertainment plc ( Flutter )) that launched the free-to-play game FOX Bet Super 6 and the FOX Bet wagering app in fiscal 2020. FOX Entertainment is investing in more co-production arrangements and owns a stake in nearly all new series that aired on the FOX Network during the 2019-2020 broadcast season. We believe continuing to provide compelling news, sports and entertainment programming across platforms will increase audience engagement and drive growth across our distribution, affiliate and advertising relationships. Increase revenue growth through the continued delivery of high quality, premium and valuable content. With a focused portfolio of assets, we create and produce high quality programming that delivers value for our viewers and our affiliate and advertising partners. We intend to continue to receive appropriate value for our content, particularly through affiliate fees. Additionally, we expect our enhanced ability to acquire independent programming through co-production arrangements will facilitate growth by enabling us to directly manage the economics and programming decisions of our broadcast network and stations group. We also believe our unique ability to deliver appointment-based viewing and audiences at scale, along with innovative advertising platforms, delivers substantial value to our advertising customers, and the unique nature of our appointment-based content positions us to maintain and even grow audiences during a time of increasing consumer fragmentation. Expand our online distribution offerings and direct engagement with consumers, increasing complementary sources of revenues. Our key networks are offered on all major digital MVPD services, reflecting the strength of our brands and the must-have nature of our content. We are also cultivating direct interactions between FOX brands and consumers outside 3 traditional linear television. For example, in fiscal 2020, we acquired Tubi, which owns and operates a leading AVOD service, while divesting our passive stake in Roku, Inc. Tubi provides us with a 100% owned digital platform to access a wider digital audience and to further the reach of our content. We also acquired 67% of the equity in Credible, a U.S. consumer finance marketplace that is playing a featured role in the rebranded FOX Business suite of digital products and other integrations across the FOX portfolio of brands. In addition, FOX Sports has partnered with The Stars Group (subsequently acquired by Flutter) , which launched the FOX Bet app in fiscal 2020, and we own an equity stake in Flutter and maintain valuable options to acquire up to 50% of The Stars Group s U.S. business and approximately 18.5% of FanDuel Group, a majority-owned subsidiary of Flutter . FOX Television Stations also upgraded its suite of digital properties and launched its first AVOD service, FOX Soul, which features programming focused on the African American community. We intend to identify similarly innovative new products, services and investments across our business to increase revenues and profitability in the future. Recent Developments The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in widespread and continuing negative impacts on the macroeconomic environment and disruption to the Company s business. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, sports events to which the Company has broadcast rights have been cancelled or postponed and the production of certain entertainment content the Company distributes has been suspended. Although some of these sports events and productions have resumed or are expected to resume during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, there may be additional content disruptions in the future. As a result, the number of live sports events and related sports programming airing on the Company s broadcast and cable networks and made available to the FOX Network s affiliates in fiscal 2021 is uncertain and the nature of the entertainment programming the Company airs and delivers in fiscal 2021 may be affected as well. Measures aimed at preventing the spread of the virus, such as shelter in place orders, business shutdowns, quarantines and travel bans and restrictions, have affected and may further affect the Company s workforce and operations, as well as those of its business partners. For example, the Company transferred centralized production functions to multiple remote sites. In addition to causing business disruptions, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused some of the Company s advertisers (including, in particular, local market advertisers) to reduce their spending, and future declines in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could negatively impact their advertising expenditures further. The magnitude of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company is highly uncertain and subject to change and will depend on evolving factors beyond the Company s control. For more information, see Item 1A, Risk Factors The COVID-19 pandemic and other widespread health emergencies or pandemics could materially adversely affect the Company s business, financial condition or results of operations and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of the Company s Business Other Business Developments. Segments Cable Network Programming The Cable Network Programming segment produces and licenses news, business news and sports content for distribution primarily through MVPDs primarily in the U.S. The businesses in this segment include FOX News Media (which is comprised of FOX News and FOX Business) and our primary cable sports programming networks FS1, FS2 and Big Ten Network. The following table lists the Company s significant cable networks and the number of subscribers as estimated by Nielsen Media Research ( Nielsen ): As of June 30, 2020 2019 (in millions) FOX News Media Networks FOX News 83 84 FOX Business 80 82 FOX Sports Networks FS1 80 81 FS2 59 58 Big Ten Network 57 57 FOX Deportes 20 21 4 FOX News Media. FOX News Media includes the FOX News and FOX Business networks and their related properties. As of June 2020, FOX News is the top-rated national cable news channel in both Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing and has held its #1 status for over 18 years, according to Nielsen. FOX News also finished fiscal 2020 as the #1 network among all cable networks in Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing among total viewers for the fifth year in a row and as the #1 network of all cable networks from Monday to Friday in total day viewing among Adults 25-54, according to Nielsen. FOX Business is a business news national cable channel. Fiscal 2020 was FOX Business highest rated year ever among total viewers in business day and its Lou Dobbs Tonight program was the #1 program on any business network among total viewers. FOX News also produces a weekend political commentary show, FOX News Sunday , for broadcast on the FOX Television Stations and stations affiliated with the FOX Network throughout the U.S. FOX News, through its FOX News Edge service, licenses news feeds to affiliates to the FOX Network and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts primarily throughout the U.S. FOX News also produces FOX News Audio, which licenses news updates, podcasts, and long-form programs to local radio stations and to mobile, Internet and satellite radio providers. FS1. FS1 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ( NASCAR ), college football, college basketball, the Bundesliga, the FIFA World Cup , Major League Soccer ( MLS ), National Hot Rod Association ( NHRA ), Premier Boxing Champions ( PBC ) and F d ration Internationale de l Automobile Formula E Championship ( Formula E ), as well as regular season and post-season MLB games. In addition to live events, FS1 also features original programming from FOX Sports Films and opinion shows such as Skip and Shannon: Undisputed , The Herd with Colin Cowherd , First Things First , FOX Bet Live and Speak for Yourself . FS2 . FS2 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including NASCAR, collegiate sports, horse racing, rugby, surfing, world-class soccer and motor sports. FOX Sports Racing . FOX Sports Racing is a 24-hour video programming service consisting of motor sports programming, including NASCAR events and original programming, NHRA and Formula E. FOX Sports Racing is distributed to subscribers in Canada and the Caribbean. FOX Soccer Plus . FOX Soccer Plus is a premium video programming network that showcases exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions, including events from the Bundesliga, FIFA, Super Rugby League, Australian Football League and the National Rugby League. FOX Deportes . FOX Deportes is a Spanish-language sports programming service distributed in the U.S. FOX Deportes features exclusive Spanish-language coverage of premier soccer (such as Liga MX and Copa MX, Tijuana Xolos, Rayados de Monterrey and Santos Laguna home matches, MLS, FIFA Club World Cup and the Bundesliga), NASCAR Cup Series, PBC, regular and post-season games of the NFL (including the National Football Conference ( NFC ) Championship game and Super Bowl LIV in 2020) and MLB (including regular season games and the National League Championship Series in 2020) and the All-Star and World Series games. In addition to live events, FOX Deportes also features multi-sport news and highlight shows and daily studio programming. FOX Deportes is available to approximately 20 million cable and satellite households in the U.S., of which over five million are Hispanic. Big Ten Network . The Big Ten Network is a 24-hour national video programming service dedicated to the collegiate Big Ten Conference and Big Ten athletics, academics and related programming. The Big Ten Network televises live collegiate events, including football games, regular-season and post-season men s and women s basketball games, and men s and women s Olympic events (including soccer, gymnastics, ice hockey and baseball), as well as a variety of studio shows. The Big Ten Network also owns and operates BTN+, a subscription video streaming service that features live streams of non-televised sporting events, replays of televised and streamed events, and a large collection of classic games and original programming. The Company owns an approximate 51% interest in the Big Ten Network. Digital Distribution. The Company also distributes programming through its FOX-branded and network-branded websites, apps and social media accounts and licenses programming for distribution through MVPDs websites and apps. The Company s websites and apps provide live and/or on-demand streaming of network-related programming primarily on an authenticated basis to allow video subscribers of the Company s participating distribution partners to view Company content via the Internet. These websites and apps include the websites FOXNews.com, FOXBusiness.com, FOXSports.com and FOXDeportes.com and the FOX News, FOX Business, FOX Sports and FOX Deportes mobile apps, as well as the website btnplus.com and the BTN+ app. In addition, in fiscal 2019, FOX News launched the FOX Nation SVOD service that delivers premium content complementary to FOX News directly to consumers. 5 FOX Sports College Properties. FOX Sports College Properties, a division of Home Team Sports ( HTS ), holds the exclusive multi-media and sponsorship representation rights for the University of Southern California and the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, Michigan State University, University of Florida, Auburn, San Diego State, Georgetown, Villanova and the BIG EAST Conference. HTS is a multi-media sales unit that connects advertisers with every MLB, NHL and National Basketball Association ( NBA ) home team in the U.S. Cable Network Programming Competition General. Cable network programming is a highly competitive business. Cable networks compete for content and distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with a variety of media, including broadcast television networks cable television systems and networks Internet-delivered platforms such as SVOD and AVOD services and mobile, gaming and social media platforms audio programming and print and other media. Important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered, the accessibility of such programming, the ability to adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, quality of user experience and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. FOX News Media. FOX News primary competition comes from the cable networks CNN, HLN and MSNBC. FOX Business primary competition comes from the cable networks CNBC and Bloomberg Television. FOX News and FOX Business also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. FOX News and FOX Business also face competition online from CNN.com, NBCNews.com, NYTimes.com, CNBC.com, Bloomberg.com and The Wall Street Journal Online, among others. FOX Sports. A number of basic and pay television programming services, such as ESPN and NBC Sports Network, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets FS1, FS2 and the Big Ten Network s respective audiences. On a national level, the primary competitors to FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network are ESPN, ESPN2, NBC Sports Network, CBS Sports Network, TNT, league-owned networks such as NFL Network, NHL Network, NBA TV and MLB Network, and collegiate conference-specific networks such as the SEC Network, Pac-12 Network and ACC Network. In regional markets, the Big Ten Network competes with regional sports networks, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network also face competition online from ESPN+, DAZN, Amazon, Yahoo Sports, Facebook, Twitter, ESPN.com, NBCSports.com, Bleacherreport.com and CBSSports.com, among others. In addition, FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. FS1, FS2 and the Big Ten Network compete for national rights principally with a number of national cable and broadcast services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and collegiate conferences. Additionally, MVPDs and online and social media properties such as ESPN+, DAZN, Amazon, Yahoo Sports, Facebook and Twitter compete with the Company s cable sports networks by acquiring and distributing sports content to their online users. Television The Company is principally engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the acquisition, marketing and distribution of broadcast network programming nationally under the FOX brand. The Company also owns Tubi, which owns and operates an AVOD service. FOX Television Stations FOX Television Stations owns and operates 29 full power broadcast television stations, which deliver broadcast network content, local news and syndicated programming to viewers in 18 local markets. These include stations located in 14 of the top 15 largest DMAs and two stations (referred to as duopolies) in each of 11 DMAs, including the three largest DMAs (New York, Los Angeles and Chicago). In two of the duopoly markets, FOX Television Stations is channel sharing whereby both of its stations in the market operate using a single 6 MHz channel. Of the 29 full power broadcast television stations, 18 stations are affiliated with the FOX Net