ITEM 1. BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 33 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 33 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 34 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 35 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 35 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 36 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 36 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 37 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 58 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 60 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 111 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 111 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 111 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 111 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 112 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 112 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 112 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 112 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 112 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 113 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 115 SIGNATURES 116 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Background The Company is a news, sports and entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in four operating segments: Cable Network Programming, Television, Credible and the FOX Studio Lot with the following two reportable segments: Cable Network Programming , which produces and licenses news and sports content distributed through traditional cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunication companies ( traditional MVPDs ), virtual multi-channel video programming distributors ( virtual MVPDs ) and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. Television , which produces, acquires, markets and distributes programming through the FOX broadcast network, advertising supported video-on-demand ( AVOD ) service Tubi, 29 full power broadcast television stations, including 11 duopolies, and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. Eighteen of the broadcast television stations are affiliated with the FOX Network, 10 are affiliated with MyNetworkTV and one is an independent station. The segment also includes various production companies that produce content for the Company and third parties. Credible is a U.S. consumer finance marketplace. The FOX Studio Lot, located in Los Angeles, California, provides television and film production services along with office space, studio operation services and includes all operations of the facility. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 ( fiscal 2024 ) to FOX, the Company, we, us or our mean Fox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term MVPDs to refer collectively to traditional MVPDs and virtual MVPDs. FOX became a standalone publicly traded company on March 19, 2019, when Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. ( 21CF ) spun off the Company to 21CF stockholders and FOX s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (collectively, the Common Stock ) began trading on The Nasdaq Global Select Market (the Transaction ). The Walt Disney Company ( Disney ) acquired the remaining 21CF assets and 21CF became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Disney. The Company is party to a separation and distribution agreement and a tax matters agreement that govern certain aspects of the Company s relationship with 21CF and Disney following the Transaction. The Company s fiscal year ends on June 30 of each year. The Company was incorporated in 2018 under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 and its telephone number is (212) 852-7000. The Company s website is www.foxcorporation.com . The Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), are available, free of charge, through the Company s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We are providing our website address solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website, including any reports that are noted in this Annual Report as being posted on the website, into this Annual Report. Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical or current fact are forward-looking statements for purposes of federal and state securities laws. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words may, will, should, likely, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, outlook or any other similar words. Although the Company s management believes that the expectations reflected in any of the Company s forward-looking 1 statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements. The Company s future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause the Company s actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those estimates or projections contained in the Company s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, government regulation, economic, strategic, political and social conditions. For more detailed information about these factors, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report speak only as of the date hereof. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement made herein or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Business Overview FOX produces and delivers compelling news, sports and entertainment content through its iconic brands, including FOX News Media, FOX Sports, FOX Entertainment, FOX Television Stations and Tubi Media Group. The Company differentiates itself in a crowded media and entertainment marketplace through its simple structure, the leadership positions of its brands and premium programming that focus on live and appointment-based content, a significant presence in major markets, and broad distribution of its content across traditional and digital platforms. Our Competitive Strengths Premium brands that resonate deeply with viewers. Under the FOX banner, we produce and distribute content through some of the world s leading and most valued brands. Our long track record of challenging the status quo emboldens us to continue making innovative decisions, disrupting norms and forming deeper relationships with audiences. FOX News Media is among the most influential and recognized news brands in the world. FOX Sports has earned a reputation for bold sports programming and, with its availability in virtually every U.S. market, is a leading destination for live sports events and sports commentary. FOX Entertainment is renowned for its engaging primetime entertainment, including scripted dramas, leading unscripted programming and its longstanding Sunday animation block. Tubi, our leading AVOD service, attracts a young, diverse and highly engaged audience to its content library of over 260,000 movies and television episodes. These brands and others in our portfolio, such as our 29 owned and operated local television stations, including 18 broadcasting under the FOX brand, hold cultural significance with consumers and commercial importance for distributors and advertisers. The quality of our programming and the strength of our brands maximize the value of our content through a combination of affiliate fees and advertising sales. Leadership positions across strategically significant programming platforms. FOX enjoys leadership positions across its core news, sports and entertainment businesses. As linear television viewership declines across the industry, appointment-based programming that is the FOX hallmark remains resilient. For over 20 consecutive years, FOX News has been the top-rated national cable news channel in Monday to Friday primetime viewing, according to The Nielsen Company ( Nielsen ). FOX News also finished the fiscal year as the #1 cable network in Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing among total viewers for the eighth consecutive year. A leader in marquee live sports broadcasts, FOX Sports programs the National Football League ( NFL ) (including the #1 show on television among Adults 18-49, America's Game of the Week ), college football (including the Big Ten Conference), Major League Baseball's ( MLB ) Regular Season, All-Star Game and World Series , National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ( NASCAR ) and other marquee cyclical events, including the Super Bowl and the F d ration Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) Men's and Women's World Cup . FOX Sports has secured a significant portion of its marquee rights under long-term contracts. FOX Entertainment has delivered the youngest and most diverse audience of the broadcast networks across all programming in primetime for over two decades. During the 2023-2024 broadcast season, FOX Entertainment featured the season s #1 new entertainment series with the FOX-owned animated comedy Krapopolis , launched the #1 game show with The Floor , once again presented television s top cooking 2 competition series with Gordon Ramsay s Next Level Chef , Hell s Kitchen , MasterChef Junior and Kitchen Nightmares , and had four of the top comedies on television with Krapopolis , The Simpsons , Bob s Burgers and Family Guy . FOX Television Stations covers 18 Nielsen-designated market areas ( DMAs ), including 14 of the 15 largest, and was the #1 or #2 rated news provider in the hours of 5 a.m. - 9 a.m. in the majority of the markets in which it operates. Under FOX s ownership, Tubi has become one of the most relevant and fastest growing AVOD services in the country, with over 40% growth in total view time (the total number of hours watched) in fiscal 2024 compared to the prior fiscal year. Tubi finished the fiscal year with approximately 2.0% of all television viewing according to Nielsen s The Gauge , further cementing its leadership as the most watched free ad-supported TV ( FAST ) streaming service in the U.S. We believe the strength and leadership of our brands will continue to support industry leading affiliate fee revenue growth and sustained advertising revenue, while enabling us to nimbly respond to the opportunities and challenges traditional media companies are facing as technologies and changes in consumer behavior continue to rapidly evolve. Significant presence and relevance in major domestic markets. The FOX portfolio combines the range of national cable and broadcast networks and digital distribution platforms with the power of tailored local television. FOX News and FOX Business are available in over 65 million U.S. households and FOX Sports and FOX Entertainment programming on the FOX Network is available in virtually every U.S. market. Additionally, our 29 owned and operated television stations cover 18 DMAs, including 14 of the 15 largest, and maintain duopolies in 11 DMAs, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the three largest. These stations provide balanced content of national interest with programming of note to local communities, producing over 1,200 hours of local news coverage each week. Tubi s ubiquitous availability provides broad distribution of films, episodic television programming, live local and national news content and sports programming. Tubi carries over 100 local station feeds (including feeds of our owned and operated stations), covering 77 DMAs and 23 of the top 25 markets. The breadth and depth of our footprint allows us to produce and distribute our content in a cost-effective manner and share best business practices and models across regions. It also enables us to engage audiences, develop deeper consumer relationships and create more compelling product offerings. Attractive financial profile, including multiple revenue streams, strong balance sheet and other assets. We have consistently achieved strong operational and financial results in a complex industry environment. Additionally, our solid balance sheet provides us with the financial flexibility to continue to invest across our businesses, allocate resources toward investments in growth initiatives, take advantage of strategic opportunities, including potential acquisitions across the range of media categories in which we operate and related adjacencies, and return capital to our stockholders. We have maintained significant liquidity, ending fiscal 2024 with approximately $4.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet while returning approximately $1.25 billion of capital to our stockholders through our stock repurchase program and cash dividends during fiscal 2024. We also benefit from a tax asset that resulted from the step-up in the tax basis of our assets following the Transaction, which is expected to provide an annual cash tax benefit for many years. Our asset portfolio also includes the FOX Studio Lot in Los Angeles, California, which spans over 50 acres and close to 2 million square feet of space for administration and television and film production services available to industry clients, including 15 sound stages, two broadcast studios, and other production facilities. Additionally, we own an equity stake in Flutter Entertainment plc ( Flutter ), an online sports betting and gaming company with operations in the U.S. and internationally, and we maintain a valuable option to acquire 18.6% of FanDuel Group, a majority-owned subsidiary of Flutter. Goals and Strategies Maintain leading positions in live news, live sports and quality entertainment. We have long been a leader in news, sports and entertainment programming, and we believe that building on our leading market positions is essential to our success. The strength of our core businesses has allowed us to invest in attractive growth opportunities and brand extensions. Examples of this include digital brand extensions at FOX News Media, including the FOX Nation SVOD service and the FOX Weather FAST service. At Tubi, our investment in content, technology and marketing has yielded new viewers and increased engagement from our audience, which has translated into robust revenue growth. In fiscal 2024, Tubi expanded 3 its content library through the premiere of over 140 new original titles and the launch of over 60 sports, entertainment and local news channels, for a total of over 280 sports, entertainment and local news channels as of the end of the fiscal year. We consistently review opportunities to optimize our sports portfolio with the dual goal of maintaining and growing our audience while achieving accretive financial returns. Fiscal 2024 highlights of this include a rights extension with NASCAR and the launch of the United Football League (the UFL ) professional spring football league. Recognizing the industry-wide changes in viewership habits, FOX Entertainment has continued to expand its footprint across owned and unscripted content, including leveraging the breadth of offerings from FOX Entertainment studios to populate its primetime lineup and reduce its reliance on third-party content providers. FOX Entertainment studios also co-produces original content for third parties, such as Prime Video s animated hit Hazbin Hotel , addressing the demand generated by the growth and proliferation of entertainment content streaming services. FOX Television Stations rollout of local news content on connected televisions and FAST services in a number of markets has led to the stations total view time for the period of March 2024 through June 2024 that was approximately four times higher compared to the same period in the prior year. We believe continuing to provide compelling news, sports and entertainment programming across platforms will increase audience engagement and drive growth across our distribution, affiliate and advertising relationships. Increase revenue growth through the continued delivery of high quality, premium and valuable content. With a focused portfolio of assets, we create and produce high quality programming that delivers value for our viewers, our affiliates and our advertisers. We expect our internal production capabilities and co-production arrangements will facilitate growth by enabling us to directly manage the economics and programming decisions of our broadcast network and television stations. We also believe our unique ability to deliver appointment-based viewing and audiences at scale, along with innovative advertising platforms, delivers substantial value to our advertising customers, and the unique nature of our appointment-based content positions us to maintain and even grow audiences during a time of increasing consumer fragmentation. Expand our digital distribution offerings and direct engagement with consumers, increasing complementary sources of revenues. The availability of our key networks on all major virtual MVPD services reflects the strength of our brands and the highly coveted nature of our content. We are also cultivating and growing direct interactions between FOX brands and consumers outside traditional linear television. For example, Tubi provides us with a wholly-owned digital platform to access a wider digital audience and further the reach of our content. Tubi continues to experience significant growth in total view time across a library of over 260,000 movies and television episodes, including key FOX entertainment, news and sports programming, and it streamed approximately 9.7 billion hours of content over the course of the fiscal year (a record for the platform). Tubi s young, diverse and highly engaged viewers, the majority of which are classified as cord-cutters or cord-nevers, is an audience that advertisers are eager to reach. FOX News Media operates a number of digital businesses, including FOX News Digital, which remains the most engaged brand in digital news (leading in total views, minutes spent and social interactions), along with the FOX Nation SVOD service, which offers U.S. consumers a variety of content (including original programming), and FOX Weather, which offers local, regional and national weather reporting in addition to live programming. Additionally, FOX Television Stations operates a portfolio of digital businesses, including the FLX (or FOX Local Extension) digital advertising platform and the LiveNOW from FOX, FOX Locals and FOX Soul FAST services, in addition to distributing its local news programming on Tubi and across a range of third-party platforms. Venu Sports, a digital sports programming distribution joint venture with ESPN (a subsidiary of Disney) and Warner Bros. Discovery, is expected to launch in fall of 2024 and expand the reach of our sports programming beyond FOX s existing footprint. Reportable Segments Cable Network Programming The Cable Network Programming segment produces and licenses news, business news and sports content for distribution through traditional and virtual MVPDs and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. The businesses in this segment include FOX News Media (which includes FOX News and FOX Business) and our primary cable sports programming networks FS1, FS2, the Big Ten Network and FOX Deportes. 4 The following table lists the Company s significant cable networks and the number of subscribers as estimated by Nielsen: As of June 30, 2024 2023 (in millions) FOX News Media Networks FOX News 67 72 FOX Business 65 70 FOX Sports Networks FS1 67 72 FS2 48 52 The Big Ten Network 45 48 FOX Deportes 12 13 FOX News Media . FOX News Media includes the FOX News and FOX Business networks and their related properties. For over 20 consecutive years, FOX News has been the top-rated national cable news channel in Monday to Friday primetime viewing. FOX News also finished the fiscal year as the #1 cable network in Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing among total viewers for the eighth consecutive year. FOX Business is a business news national cable channel and was the #1 business network in business day among total viewers during fiscal 2024. FOX News also produces a weekend political commentary show, FOX News Sunday , for broadcast on the FOX Television Stations and stations affiliated with the FOX Network throughout the U.S. FOX News also produces FOX News Audio, which licenses news updates, podcasts, and long-form programs to local radio stations and to mobile, Internet and satellite radio providers. FS1 . FS1 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including regular season and post-season MLB games, NASCAR, college football, college basketball, the FIFA Men s and Women s World Cup , Major League Soccer ( MLS ), the UFL, the Union of European Football Associations ( UEFA ) European Championship , UEFA Nations League, Concacaf and CONMEBOL soccer and horse racing. In addition to live events, FS1 offers daily studio shows featuring key talent, including Colin Cowherd, Nick Wright and Emmanuel Acho. FS2 . FS2 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including NASCAR, collegiate sports, horse racing, rugby, soccer and motor sports. FOX Sports Racing . FOX Sports Racing is a 24-hour video programming service consisting of motor sports programming, including National Hot Rod Association, motorcycle racing and horse racing. FOX Sports Racing is distributed to subscribers in Canada and the Caribbean. FOX Soccer Plus . FOX Soccer Plus is a premium video programming network that showcases exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions, including events from FIFA, UEFA, Concacaf, CONMEBOL, Saudi Pro League, Super Rugby League, Australian Football League and the National Rugby League. FOX Deportes . FOX Deportes is a Spanish-language sports programming service distributed in the U.S. FOX Deportes features coverage of a variety of sports events, including premier soccer (such as matches from MLS and Liga MX), the NFL NFC Championship and the Super Bowl, MLB (including regular season games, the National League Championship Series in alternating years and the All-Star and World Series games), NASCAR Cup Series, college football and UFL. In addition to live events, FOX Deportes also features multi-sport news and highlight shows and daily studio programming. FOX Deportes is available to approximately 11.8 million cable and satellite households in the U.S., of which approximately 2.5 million are Hispanic. The Big Ten Network . The Big Ten Network is a 24-hour national video programming service dedicated to the collegiate Big Ten Conference and Big Ten athletics, academics and related programming. The Big Ten Network televises live collegiate events, including football games, regular-season and post-season men s and women s basketball games, and men s and women s Olympic events (including wrestling, volleyball and ice hockey), as well as a variety of studio shows and original programming. The Big Ten Network also owns and 5 operates B1G+ (formerly branded BTN+), a subscription video streaming service that features live streams of non-televised sporting events, replays of televised and streamed events, and a large collection of classic games and original programming. The Company owns approximately 61% of the Big Ten Network. Digital Distribution. The Company s cable network programming is also distributed through FOX-branded websites, apps, podcasts and social media accounts and licensed for distribution through MVPDs websites and apps. The Company s websites and apps provide live and/or on-demand streaming of network-related programming primarily on an authenticated basis to allow video subscribers of the Company s participating distribution partners to view Company content via the Internet. These websites and apps include FOXNews.com, FOXBusiness.com, FOXWeather.com, FOXSports.com, FOXDeportes.com and OutKick.com, and the FOX News, FOX Business, FOX Weather, FOX Sports and FOX Deportes mobile apps. FOX News Media also operates direct-to-consumer services FOX Nation, an SVOD service that offers U.S. consumers a variety of content (including original programming), and FOX Weather, a FAST service that offers local, regional and national weather reporting in addition to live programming. The Big Ten Network distributes live-streaming and video-on-demand programming through the B1G+ subscription video streaming service. The Company also distributes non-authenticated live-streaming and video-on-demand content, podcasts, as well as static visual content such as photography, artwork and graphical design across FOX and Big Ten Network branded social media and third-party video and audio platforms. Outkick Media. The Company owns Outkick Media, a digital media company focused on the intersection of sports, news and entertainment. Cable Network Programming Competition General. Cable network programming is a highly competitive business. Cable networks compete for content, distribution, viewers and advertisers with a variety of media, including broadcast television networks; cable television systems and networks; direct-to-consumer streaming and on-demand platforms and services; mobile, gaming and social media platforms; audio programming; and print and other media. Important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered, the accessibility of such programming, the ability to adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, the quality of user experience and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. Competition for sales of advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various measurement services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from other cable networks, broadcast networks, cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite television, social and digital media, and general economic conditions. Competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the popularity and success of which depend on the reaction of the viewing public, which is often difficult to predict. FOX News Media. FOX News' primary competition comes from the broadcast networks' national news divisions and cable news networks such as CNN and MSNBC. FOX Business' primary competition comes from the cable networks CNBC and Bloomberg Television. FOX News and FOX Business also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks, free-to-air broadcast television networks and direct-to-consumer streaming and on-demand platforms and services. FOX News and FOX Business also face competition online from CNN.com, NBCNews.com, NYTimes.com, CNBC.com, Bloomberg.com, Yahoo.com and The Wall Street Journal Online, among others. FOX Sports. A number of basic and pay television programming services, direct-to-consumer streaming services, and free-to-air stations and broadcast networks compete with FS1, FS2 and the Big Ten Network for sports programming rights, distribution, audiences and advertisers. On a national level, the primary competitors to FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network are ESPN, ESPN2, TNT, TBS, USA Network, CBS Sports Network; league-owned networks such as NFL Network, NHL Network, NBA TV and MLB Network; collegiate conference-specific networks such as the SEC Network and ACC Network; and direct-to-consumer streaming services such as ESPN+, Peacock, Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, Apple TV+, Paramount+, Max, FuboTV and Roku. In regional markets, the Big Ten Network competes with regional sports networks, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. 6 Television The Television segment produces, acquires, markets and distributes programming through the FOX broadcast network, the Tubi AVOD service, broadcast television stations and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. The segment also includes various production companies that produce content for the Company and third parties. FOX Television Stations FOX Television Stations owns and operates 29 full power broadcast television stations, which deliver broadcast network content, local news and syndicated programming to viewers in 18 local markets. These include stations located in 14 of the top 15 largest DMAs and two stations (referred to as duopolies) in each of 11 DMAs, including the three largest DMAs (New York, Los Angeles and Chicago). In two of the duopoly markets, FOX Television Stations is 