ITEM 1. BUSINESS 1 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 33 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 33 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 33 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 33 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT ' S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 34 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 34 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT ' S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 34 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 56 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 58 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 109 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 109 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 109 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 109 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 110 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 110 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 110 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 110 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 110 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 111 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 113 SIGNATURES 114 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Background Fox Corporation is a news, sports and entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in the following segments: Cable Network Programming , which produces and licenses news and sports content distributed through traditional cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunication companies ("traditional MVPDs"), virtual multi-channel video programming distributors ("virtual MVPDs") and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. Television , which produces, acquires, markets and distributes programming through the FOX broadcast network, advertising supported video-on-demand ("AVOD") service TUBI, 29 full power broadcast television stations, including 11 duopolies, and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. Eighteen of the broadcast television stations are affiliated with the FOX Network, 10 are affiliated with MyNetworkTV and one is an independent station. Other, Corporate and Eliminations , which principally consists of the FOX Studio Lot, Credible Labs Inc. ("Credible"), corporate overhead costs and intracompany eliminations. The FOX Studio Lot, located in Los Angeles, California, provides television and film production services along with office space, studio operation services and includes all operations of the facility. Credible is a U.S. consumer finance marketplace. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report") for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 ("fiscal 2022") to "FOX," the "Company," "we" or "us" mean Fox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term "MVPDs" to refer collectively to traditional MVPDs and virtual MVPDs. FOX became a standalone publicly traded company on March 19, 2019, when Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. ("21CF") spun off the Company to 21CF stockholders and FOX's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (collectively, the "Common Stock") began trading on The Nasdaq Global Select Market (the "Transaction"). The Walt Disney Company ("Disney") acquired the remaining 21CF assets and 21CF became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Disney. The Company is party to a separation and distribution agreement and a tax matters agreement that govern certain aspects of the Company's relationship with 21CF and Disney following the Transaction. The core transition services agreements entered into in connection with the Transaction terminated in accordance with their terms in fiscal 2022. The Company's fiscal year ends on June 30 of each year. The Company was incorporated in 2018 under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 and its telephone number is (212) 852-7000. The Company's website is www.foxcorporation.com . The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available, free of charge, through the Company's website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We are providing our website address solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website, including any reports that are noted in this Annual Report as being posted on the website, into this Annual Report. Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical or current fact are "forward-looking statements" for purposes of federal and state securities laws. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words "may," "will," "should," "likely," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "projects," "believes," "estimates," "outlook" or any other similar words. Although 1 the Company's management believes that the expectations reflected in any of the Company's forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements. The Company's future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause the Company's actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those estimates or projections contained in the Company's forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, government regulation, economic, strategic, political and social conditions and the impact of coronavirus disease 2019 ("COVID-19") and other widespread health emergencies or pandemics and measures to contain their spread. For more detailed information about these factors, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements." Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report speak only as of the date hereof. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement made herein or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Business Overview FOX produces and delivers compelling news, sports and entertainment content through its primary iconic brands, including FOX News Media, FOX Sports, FOX Entertainment and FOX Television Stations, and leading AVOD service TUBI. The Company, with a simple structure focused on two principal reporting segments, differentiates itself in a crowded media and entertainment marketplace through the leadership positions of the Company's brands and premium programming that focus on live and "appointment-based" content, a significant presence in major markets, and broad distribution of the Company's content across traditional and digital platforms. Our Competitive Strengths Premium brands that resonate deeply with viewers. Under the FOX banner, we produce and distribute content through some of the world's leading and most valued brands. Our long track record of challenging the status quo emboldens us to continue making innovative decisions, disrupting competitors and forming deeper relationships with audiences. FOX News Media is among the most influential and recognized news brands in the world. FOX Sports has earned a reputation for bold sports programming and, with its far-reaching presence in virtually every U.S. household, is a leading destination for live sports events and sports commentary. FOX Entertainment is renowned for its engaging primetime entertainment, including dramas 9-1-1 , 9-1-1: Lone Star and new arrival The Cleaning Lady , its longstanding Sunday animation block featuring The Simpsons , Family Guy and Bob's Burgers and unscripted programming such as The Masked Singer and programming starring Gordon Ramsay, including Hell's Kitchen , MasterChef and Next Level Chef. These brands and others in our portfolio, including our owned and operated local television stations broadcasting under the FOX brand, hold cultural significance with consumers and commercial importance for distributors and advertisers. TUBI, a leading AVOD service, attracts a young, diverse and loyal audience to its over 45,000 programming titles. The quality of our programming and the strength of our brands maximize the value of our content through a combination of affiliate fees and advertising sales. Leadership positions across strategically significant programming platforms. FOX enjoys a leadership position across our core news, sports and entertainment businesses. As linear television viewership declines across the industry, "appointment-based" programming that is the FOX hallmark remains resilient. For over 20 consecutive years, FOX News has been the top-rated national cable news channel in both Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing, according to The Nielsen Company ("Nielsen"). FOX News also finished calendar year 2021 as the #1 cable network in Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing among total viewers for the sixth consecutive year. A leader in marquee live sports broadcasts, FOX Sports programs the National Football League ("NFL"), Major League Baseball's ("MLB") Regular Season , All-Star Game and World Series and other marquee events, including the F d ration Internationale de Football Association ("FIFA") Men's and Women's World Cup and the Super Bowl . FOX Sports programming includes the #1 show on television, America's Game of the Week . FOX Entertainment has 2 delivered the youngest and most diverse audience of the broadcast networks across all programming in primetime for the past two decades. During the 2021-2022 broadcast season, FOX featured leading unscripted hit The Masked Singer , leading scripted Monday dramas 9-1-1 and 9-1-1: Lone Star and four of the top 10 comedies on broadcast television with The Simpsons , Family Guy , Bob's Burgers and Call Me Kat . The FOX Television Stations cover 18 Nielsen-designated market areas ("DMAs"), including 14 of the 15 largest, and was the #1 or #2 rated news provider in the hours of 5 a.m. - 9 a.m. in the majority of the markets in which it operates. FOX has helped TUBI become one of the most relevant and fastest growing AVOD services in the country in fiscal 2022, with nearly 40% growth in total view time (the total number of hours watched) compared to the prior fiscal year. Taken together, we believe our leadership positions will continue to support strong affiliate fee revenue growth and sustained advertising revenue, while enabling us to nimbly respond to the challenges traditional media companies are facing relating to rapidly evolving technologies and changes in consumer behavior. Significant presence and relevance in major domestic markets. The FOX portfolio combines the range of national cable and broadcast networks with the power of tailored local television. FOX News and FOX Business are available in over 70 million U.S. households and the FOX Network is available in essentially all U.S. households. Additionally, our 29 owned and operated television stations cover 18 DMAs, including 14 of the 15 largest, and maintain duopolies in 11 DMAs, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the three largest. These stations provide balanced content of national interest with programming of note to local communities, producing approximately 1,200 hours of local news coverage each week. TUBI's ubiquitous availability both online and through its app provides broad distribution of films, episodic television programming and live local and national news content. TUBI carries nearly 100 local station feeds (including feeds of our owned and operated stations), covering 50 DMAs and 24 of the top 25 markets. The breadth and depth of our footprint allows us to produce and distribute our content in a cost-effective manner and share best business practices and models across regions. It also enables us to engage audiences, develop deeper consumer relationships and create more compelling product offerings. Attractive financial profile, including multiple revenue streams, strong balance sheet and tax asset benefit. We have achieved strong revenue growth and profitability in a complex industry environment over the past several years, led by affiliate fee increases. Additionally, our strong balance sheet provides us with the financial flexibility to continue to invest across our businesses, allocate resources toward investments in growth initiatives, take advantage of strategic opportunities, including potential acquisitions across the range of media categories in which we operate, and return capital to our stockholders. We also benefit from a tax asset that resulted from the step-up in the tax basis of our assets following the Transaction, which will provide an annual cash tax benefit for many years. Goals and Strategies Maintain leading positions in live news, live sports and quality entertainment. We have long been a leader in news, sports and entertainment programming. We believe that building on our leading market positions is essential to our success. We are investing in our most attractive growth opportunities by allocating capital to our news, sports and original entertainment programming, which we believe have distinct competitive advantages. For example, we have continued our investments in digital properties at FOX News Media, including additional investments in the FOX Nation subscription video-on-demand ("SVOD") service and the October 2021 launch of the FOX Weather free advertising-supported streaming service. In fiscal 2021, FOX Sports entered into an expanded 11-year media rights agreement with the NFL that has extended FOX Sports' coverage of premier NFC games, created new and exclusive holiday games on the FOX Network and expanded FOX's digital rights to enable future direct-to-consumer opportunities as well as NFL-related programming on TUBI. In fiscal 2022, FOX Sports acquired U.S. rights to broadcast UEFA international soccer matches, including the 2024 and 2028 UEFA European Football Championships ("Euros"), and launched the United States Football League ("USFL"). FOX Entertainment is investing in more co-production arrangements and owns a stake in all new series that premiered on the FOX Network during the 2021-2022 broadcast season. In addition, the Company's fiscal 2022 acquisitions of MarVista Entertainment and TMZ, including TMZ's iconic website and daily syndicated magazine programs, and the formation of Studio Ramsay Global with Gordon Ramsay will reduce our reliance on third-party content providers for programming 3 on our traditional and digital entertainment platforms. We will also continue to invest in content, technology and marketing at TUBI to attract new viewers and retain TUBI's existing audience. In fiscal 2022, TUBI expanded its content library through the premiere of 40 new original titles and the launch of approximately 140 sports, entertainment and local news channels. We believe continuing to provide compelling news, sports and entertainment programming across platforms will increase audience engagement and drive growth across our distribution, affiliate and advertising relationships. Increase revenue growth through the continued delivery of high quality, premium and valuable content. With a focused portfolio of assets, we create and produce high quality programming that delivers value for our viewers and our affiliate and advertising partners. We intend to continue to generate appropriate value for our content. Additionally, we expect our enhanced ability to acquire independent programming through co-production arrangements and internal production capabilities will facilitate growth by enabling us to directly manage the economics and programming decisions of our broadcast network and stations group. We also believe our unique ability to deliver "appointment-based" viewing and audiences at scale, along with innovative advertising platforms, delivers substantial value to our advertising customers, and the unique nature of our "appointment-based" content positions us to maintain and even grow audiences during a time of increasing consumer fragmentation. Expand our digital distribution offerings and direct engagement with consumers, increasing complementary sources of revenues. Our key networks are offered on all major virtual MVPD services, reflecting the strength of our brands and the "must-have" nature of our content. We are also cultivating and growing direct interactions between FOX brands and consumers outside traditional linear television. For example, TUBI, which we acquired in fiscal 2020, provides us with a wholly-owned digital platform to access a wider digital audience and further the reach of our content. TUBI continues to experience significant growth in total view time across a library of over 45,000 titles, as well as key FOX entertainment, news and sports programming. TUBI streamed over 4 billion hours of content over the course of the fiscal year, a record for the platform, to a young, diverse and loyal audience advertisers are eager to reach. Additionally, FOX Sports has entered into a national media and sports wagering partnership with Flutter Entertainment plc ("Flutter"), which offers FOX Bet Super 6, a national free-to-play game with a user base of more than 6 million registered accounts as of June 2022, and the FOX Bet sportsbook mobile app in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Colorado and Michigan. We own an equity stake in Flutter and maintain valuable options to acquire approximately 18.5% of FanDuel Group, a majority-owned subsidiary of Flutter, and up to 50% of the U.S. business of Flutter subsidiary, The Stars Group. FOX News Media operates a number of high-growth digital businesses, including FOX News Digital, which attracts the highest multiplatform time spent in the news category, along with the FOX Nation SVOD service, which offers U.S. consumers a variety of on-demand content, including original programming from popular opinion hosts. In addition, in October 2021, FOX News Media launched FOX Weather, a free advertising-supported streaming service that offers local, regional and national weather reporting in addition to live programming. Segments Cable Network Programming The Cable Network Programming segment produces and licenses news, business news and sports content for distribution through traditional and virtual MVPDs and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. The businesses in this segment include FOX News Media (which includes FOX News and FOX Business) and our primary cable sports programming networks FS1, FS2, the Big Ten Network and FOX Deportes. 4 The following table lists the Company's significant cable networks and the number of subscribers as estimated by Nielsen:* As of June 30, 2022 2021 (in millions) FOX News Media Networks FOX News 75 77 FOX Business 72 73 FOX Sports Networks FS1 74 74 FS2 55 54 The Big Ten Network 50 51 FOX Deportes 15 16 * Disruption in Nielsen's ability to maintain the efficacy of its in-home panel due to the COVID-19 pandemic had a negative impact on subscriber estimates as reported as of June 30, 2021. FOX News Media. FOX News Media includes the FOX News and FOX Business networks and their related properties. For over 20 consecutive years, FOX News has been the top-rated national cable news channel in both Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing. FOX News also finished calendar year 2021 as the #1 cable network in Monday to Friday total day viewing among the key Adults 25-54 demographic, as well as the #1 cable network in Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing among total viewers for the sixth consecutive year. FOX Business is a business news national cable channel. For the quarter ended June 30, 2022, FOX Business was the #1 business network in business day and market hours among total viewers. FOX News also produces a weekend political commentary show, FOX News Sunday , for broadcast on the FOX Television Stations and stations affiliated with the FOX Network throughout the U.S. FOX News, through its FOX News Edge service, licenses news feeds to affiliates to the FOX Network and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts primarily throughout the U.S. FOX News also produces FOX News Audio, which licenses news updates, podcasts, and long-form programs to local radio stations and to mobile, Internet and satellite radio providers. FS1. FS1 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including regular season and post-season MLB games, National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ("NASCAR"), college football, college basketball, the FIFA Men's and Women's World Cup, Major League Soccer ("MLS"), UEFA Euro, UEFA Nations League, Concacaf and CONMEBOL soccer and horse racing. In addition to live events, FS1 also features original programming from FOX Sports Films, studio programming such as NASCAR Race Hub and opinion shows such as Skip and Shannon: Undisputed and The Herd with Colin Cowherd . FS2 . FS2 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including NASCAR, collegiate sports, horse racing, rugby, world-class soccer and motor sports. FOX Sports Racing . FOX Sports Racing is a 24-hour video programming service consisting of motor sports programming, including NASCAR events and original programming, National Hot Rod Association ("NHRA"), motorcycle racing and horse racing. FOX Sports Racing is distributed to subscribers in Canada and the Caribbean. FOX Soccer Plus . FOX Soccer Plus is a premium video programming network that showcases exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions, including events from FIFA, UEFA, Concacaf, CONMEBOL, Super Rugby League, Australian Football League and the National Rugby League. FOX Deportes . FOX Deportes is a Spanish-language sports programming service distributed in the U.S. FOX Deportes features Spanish-language coverage of a variety of sports events, including premier soccer (such as Liga MX and Copa MX, Tijuana Xolos, Rayados de Monterrey and Santos Laguna home matches, MLS, and Liga de Honduras), MLB (including regular season games and the National League Championship Series in 2022 and the All-Star and World Series games), NASCAR Cup Series, college football and WWE 5 Smackdown. In addition to live events, FOX Deportes also features multi-sport news and highlight shows and daily studio programming. FOX Deportes is available to approximately 15.1 million cable and satellite households in the U.S., of which approximately 3.6 million are Hispanic. The Big Ten Network . The Big Ten Network is a 24-hour national video programming service dedicated to the collegiate Big Ten Conference and Big Ten athletics, academics and related programming. The Big Ten Network televises live collegiate events, including football games, regular-season and post-season men's and women's basketball games, and men's and women's Olympic events (including wrestling, volleyball and ice hockey), as well as a variety of studio shows and original programming. The Big Ten Network also owns and operates B1G+ (formerly branded BTN+), a subscription video streaming service that features live streams of non-televised sporting events, replays of televised and streamed events, and a large collection of classic games and original programming. The Company owns approximately 61% of the Big Ten Network. Digital Distribution. The Company also distributes programming through its branded websites, apps and social media accounts, and it licenses programming for distribution through MVPDs' websites and apps. The Company's websites and apps provide live and/or on-demand streaming of network-related programming primarily on an authenticated basis to allow video subscribers of the Company's participating distribution partners to view Company content via the Internet. These websites and apps include the websites FOXNews.com, FOXBusiness.com, FOXWeather.com, FOXSports.com, FOXDeportes.com, theUSFL.com and OutKick.com and the FOX News, FOX Business, FOX Weather, FOX Sports and FOX Deportes mobile apps. FOX News Media also operates direct-to-consumer services. FOX Nation is an SVOD service that offers U.S. consumers a variety of on-demand content, including original programming from popular opinion hosts, and FOX Weather, a free advertising-supported streaming service that launched in October 2021, offers local, regional and national weather reporting in addition to live programming. The Big Ten Network distributes programming through the B1G+ subscription video streaming service. The Company also distributes non-authenticated live-streaming and video-on-demand content, podcasts, as well as static visual content such as photography, artwork and graphical design across FOX-branded social media, third party video and audio platforms. Outkick Media. The Company owns Outkick Media, a digital media company focused on the intersection of sports, news and entertainment. USFL. FOX Sports founded and launched the USFL in April 2022. The USFL is a professional spring football league with eight teams playing a 40-game regular season schedule in addition to two playoff games and a championship game. Under multi-year rights agreements, FOX Sports and NBC Sports are the domestic distribution partners of the USFL games. Cable Network Programming Competition General. Cable network programming is a highly competitive business. Cable networks compete for content, distribution, viewers and advertisers with a variety of media, including broadcast television networks; cable television systems and networks; direct-to-consumer live streaming platforms, SVOD and AVOD services and mobile, gaming and social media platforms; audio programming; and print and other media. Important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered, the accessibility of such programming, the ability to adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, quality of user experience and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. FOX News Media. FOX News' primary competition comes from the broadcast networks' national news divisions and cable networks CNN, HLN and MSNBC. FOX Business' primary competition comes from the cable networks CNBC and Bloomberg Television. FOX News and FOX Business also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. FOX News and FOX Business also face competition online from CNN.com, NBCNews.com, NYTimes.com, CNBC.com, Bloomberg.com, Yahoo.com and The Wall Street Journal Online, among others. FOX Sports. A number of basic and pay television programming services, such as ESPN and TNT, direct-to-consumer streaming services such as ESPN+, Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV+, Peacock, Paramount+ and DAZN, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets FS1, FS2 6 and the Big Ten Network's respective audiences. On a national level, the primary competitors to FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network are ESPN, ESPN2, TNT, TBS, USA Network, CBS Sports Network, league-owned networks such as NFL Network, NHL Network, NBA TV and MLB Network, and collegiate conference-specific networks such as the SEC Network, Pac-12 Network and ACC Network. In regional markets, the Big Ten Network competes with regional sports networks, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network also face competition online from ESPN+, Peacock, Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV+, Paramount+, DAZN, Yahoo Sports, Facebook, Twitter, ESPN.com, nbcsports.com, Bleacherreport.com and CBSSports.com, among others. In addition, FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network compete with third parties, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. FS1, FS2 and the Big Ten Network compete for national rights principally with a number of national cable and broadcast services and direct-to-consumer streaming services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and collegiate conferences. Additionally, MVPDs and online and social media properties such as Amazon, Apple, Yahoo Sports, Facebook and Twitter compete with the Company's cable sports networks by acquiring and distributing sports content to their online users. Television The Television segment produces, acquires, markets and distributes programming through the FOX broadcast network, the TUBI AVOD service, broadcast television stations and other digital platforms, primarily in the U.S. FOX Television Stations FOX Television Stations owns and operates 29 full power broadcast television stations, which deliver broadcast network content, local news and syndicated programming to viewers in 18 local markets. These include stations located in 14 of the to