Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 17 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Our Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 49 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 49 Item 9B. Other Information 50 PART III Item 10. Trustees, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 51 Item 11. Executive Compensation 51 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 51 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Trustee Independence 51 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 51 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 51 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 55 SIGNATURES 56 2 Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Federal Realty Investment Trust ( we our or us ) and members of our management team, as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based, and generally are identified by the use of words such as may, will, seeks, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, plans, intends, should or similar expressions. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time, unless required by law. The following are some of the risks and uncertainties, although not all risks and uncertainties, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements: risks that our tenants will not pay rent, may vacate early or may file for bankruptcy or that we may be unable to renew leases or re-let space at favorable rents as leases expire; risks that we may not be able to proceed with or obtain necessary approvals for any redevelopment or renovation project, and that completion of anticipated or ongoing property redevelopment or renovation projects that we do pursue may cost more, take more time to complete or fail to perform as expected; risk that we are investing a significant amount in ground-up development projects that may be dependent on third parties to deliver critical aspects of certain projects, requires spending a substantial amount upfront in infrastructure, and assumes receipt of public funding which has been committed but not entirely funded; risks normally associated with the real estate industry, including risks that occupancy levels at our properties and the amount of rent that we receive from our properties may be lower than expected, that new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected, that competition for acquisitions could result in increased prices for acquisitions, that costs associated with the periodic maintenance and repair or renovation of space, insurance and other operations may increase, that environmental issues may develop at our properties and result in unanticipated costs, and, because real estate is illiquid, that we may not be able to sell properties when appropriate; risks that our growth will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital; risks associated with general economic conditions, including local economic conditions in our geographic markets; financing on terms which are acceptable to us, our ability to meet existing financial covenants and the limitations imposed on our operations by those covenants, and the possibility of increases in interest rates that would result in increased interest expense; and risks related to our status as a real estate investment trust, commonly referred to as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes, such as the existence of complex tax regulations relating to our status as a REIT, the effect of future changes in REIT requirements as a result of new legislation, and the adverse consequences of the failure to qualify as a REIT. In addition, we describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (Part II, Item 7A), and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations (Part II, Item 7). ITEM 1. BUSINESS References to we, us, our or the Trust refer to Federal Realty Investment Trust and our business and operations conducted through our directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries. General We are an equity real estate investment trust ( REIT ) specializing in the ownership, management, and redevelopment of high quality retail and mixed-use properties located primarily in densely populated and affluent communities in strategically selected metropolitan markets in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, as well as in California and South Florida. As of December 31, 2019 , we owned or had a majority interest in community and neighborhood shopping centers and mixed-use properties which are operated as 104 predominantly retail real estate projects comprising approximately 23.7 million square 3 Table of Contents feet. In total, the real estate projects were 94.2% leased and 92.5% occupied at December 31, 2019 . Our revenue is primarily generated from lease agreements with tenants. We have paid quarterly dividends to our shareholders continuously since our founding in 1962 and have increased our dividends per common share for 52 consecutive years. We were founded in 1962 as a REIT under the laws of the District of Columbia and re-formed as a REIT in the state of Maryland in 1999. We operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes pursuant to provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ). Our principal executive offices are located at 1626 East Jefferson Street, Rockville, Maryland 20852. Our telephone number is (301) 998-8100. Our website address is www.federalrealty.com . The information contained on our website is not a part of this report and is not incorporated herein by reference. Business Objectives and Strategies Our primary business objective is to own, manage, acquire and redevelop a portfolio of high quality retail focused properties that will: provide increasing cash flow for distribution to shareholders; generate higher internal growth than the shopping center industry over the long term; provide potential for capital appreciation; and protect investor capital. Our portfolio includes, and we continue to acquire and redevelop, high quality retail in many formats ranging from regional, community and neighborhood shopping centers that often are anchored by grocery stores to mixed-use properties that are typically centered around a retail component but also include office, residential and/or hotel components. Operating Strategies Our core operating strategy is to actively manage our properties to maximize rents and maintain occupancy levels by attracting and retaining a strong and diverse base of tenants and replacing less relevant, weaker, underperforming tenants with stronger ones. Our properties are generally located in some of the most densely populated and affluent areas of the country. These strong demographics help our tenants generate higher sales, which has enabled us to maintain higher occupancy rates, charge higher rental rates, and maintain steady rent growth, all of which increase the value of our portfolio. Our operating strategies also include: increasing rental rates through the renewal of expiring leases or the leasing of space to new tenants at higher rental rates while limiting vacancy and down-time; maintaining a diversified tenant base, thereby limiting exposure to any one tenant s financial or operating difficulties; monitoring the merchandising mix of our tenant base to achieve a balance of strong national and regional tenants with local specialty tenants; minimizing overhead and operating costs; monitoring the physical appearance of our properties and the construction quality, condition and design of the buildings and other improvements located on our properties to maximize our ability to attract customers and thereby generate higher rents and occupancy rates; developing local and regional market expertise in order to capitalize on market and retailing trends; leveraging the contacts and experience of our management team to build and maintain long-term relationships with tenants; providing exceptional customer service; and creating an experience at many of our properties that is identifiable, unique and serves the surrounding communities to help insulate these properties and the tenants at these properties from the impact of on-line retailing. Investing Strategies Our investment strategy is to deploy capital at risk-adjusted rates of return that exceed our long-term weighted average cost of capital in projects that have potential for future income growth and increased value. Our investments primarily fall into one of the following four categories: renovating, expanding, reconfiguring and/or retenanting our existing properties to take advantage of under-utilized land or existing square footage to increase revenue; renovating or expanding tenant spaces for tenants capable of producing higher sales, and therefore, paying higher rents; acquiring quality retail and mixed-use properties located in densely populated and/or affluent areas where barriers to entry for further development are high, and that have possibilities for enhancing operating performance and creating value through renovation, expansion, reconfiguration and/or retenanting; and 4 Table of Contents developing the retail portions of mixed-use properties and developing or otherwise investing in non-retail portions of mixed-use properties we already own in order to capitalize on the overall value created in these properties. Investment Criteria When we evaluate potential redevelopment, retenanting, expansion, acquisition and development opportunities, we consider such factors as: the expected returns in relation to our short and long-term cost of capital as well as the anticipated risk we will face in achieving the expected returns; the anticipated growth rate of operating income generated by the property; the ability to increase the long-term value of the property through redevelopment and retenanting; the tenant mix at the property, tenant sales performance and the creditworthiness of those tenants; the geographic area in which the property is located, including the population density, household incomes, education levels, as well as the population and income trends in that geographic area; competitive conditions in the vicinity of the property, including gross leasable area (GLA) per capita, competition for tenants and the ability of others to create competing properties through redevelopment, new construction or renovation; access to and visibility of the property from existing roadways and the potential for new, widened or realigned, roadways within the property s trade area, which may affect access and commuting and shopping patterns; the level and success of our existing investments in the market area; the current market value of the land, buildings and other improvements and the potential for increasing those market values; and the physical condition of the land, buildings and other improvements, including the structural and environmental condition. Financing Strategies Our financing strategies are designed to enable us to maintain an investment grade balance sheet while retaining sufficient flexibility to fund our operating and investing activities in the most cost-efficient way possible. Our financing strategies include: maintaining a prudent level of overall leverage and an appropriate pool of unencumbered properties that is sufficient to support our unsecured borrowings; managing our exposure to variable-rate debt; maintaining an available line of credit to fund operating and investing needs on a short-term basis; taking advantage of market opportunities to refinance existing debt, reduce interest costs and manage our debt maturity schedule so that a significant portion of our debt relative to our size does not mature in any one year; selling properties that have limited growth potential or are not a strategic fit within our overall portfolio and redeploying the proceeds to redevelop, renovate, retenant and/or expand our existing properties, acquire new properties or reduce debt; and utilizing the most advantageous long-term source of capital available to us to finance redevelopment and acquisition opportunities, which may include: the sale of our equity or debt securities through public offerings, including our at-the-market ("ATM") equity program in which we may from time to time offer and sell common shares, or private placements, the incurrence of indebtedness through unsecured or secured borrowings, the issuance of operating partnership units in a new or existing downREIT partnership that is controlled and consolidated by us (generally operating partnership units in a downREIT partnership are issued in exchange for a tax deferred contribution of property; these units typically receive the same distributions as our common shares and the holders of these units have the right to exchange their units for cash or common shares, at our option), or the use of joint venture arrangements. Employees At February 5, 2020 , we had 308 full-time employees and 5 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Tax Status We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws when we filed our 1962 tax return. As a REIT, we are generally not subject to federal income tax on taxable income that we distribute to our shareholders. Under the Code, REITs are 5 Table of Contents subject to numerous organizational and operational requirements, including the requirement to generally distribute at least 90% of taxable income each year. We will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income (including, for our taxable years ending on or prior to December 31, 2017, any applicable alternative minimum tax) at regular corporate rates if we fail to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes in any taxable year, or to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our taxable income. We will also generally not qualify for treatment as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for four years following the year during which qualification is lost. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to certain state and local income and franchise taxes and to federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed taxable income. We have elected to treat certain of our subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries, which we refer to as a TRS. In general, a TRS may engage in any real estate business and certain non-real estate businesses, subject to certain limitations under the Code. A TRS is subject to federal and state income taxes. Our TRS activities have not been material. Governmental Regulations Affecting Our Properties We and our properties are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and similar laws, including without limitation: the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, which we refer to as CERCLA; the Resource Conservation Recovery Act; the Federal Clean Water Act; the Federal Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Occupational Safety Health Act; and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The application of these laws to a specific property that we own depends on a variety of property-specific circumstances, including the current and former uses of the property, the building materials used at the property and the physical layout of the property. Under certain environmental laws, principally CERCLA, we, as the owner or operator of properties currently or previously owned, may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances, asbestos-containing materials, or petroleum product releases at the property. We may also be held liable to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean up costs incurred in connection with the contamination, whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, such contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. As the owner or operator of real estate, we also may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the real estate. Such costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Neither existing environmental, health, safety and similar laws nor the costs of our compliance with these laws has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and management does not believe they will in the future. In addition, we have not incurred, and do not expect to incur, any material costs or liabilities due to environmental contamination at properties we currently own or have owned in the past. However, we cannot predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on properties we currently own or may acquire in the future. We have no current plans for substantial capital expenditures with respect to compliance with environmental, health, safety and similar laws and we carry environmental insurance which covers a number of environmental risks for most of our properties. Competition Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us with respect to the leasing and the acquisition of properties. Some of these competitors may possess greater capital resources than we do, although we do not believe that any single competitor or group of competitors in any of the primary markets where our properties are located are dominant in that market. This competition may: reduce the number of properties available for acquisition; increase the cost of properties available for acquisition; interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents; and adversely affect our ability to minimize expenses of operation. Retailers at our properties also face increasing competition from online retailers, outlet stores, discount shopping clubs, superstores, and other forms of sales and marketing of goods and services, such as direct mail. This competition could contribute to lease defaults and insolvency of tenants. 6 Table of Contents Available Information Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) are available free of charge through the Investors section of our website at www.federalrealty.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish the material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, Code of Ethics applicable to our Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers, Whistleblower Policy, organizational documents and the charters of our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are all available in the Corporate Governance section of the Investors section of our website. Amendments to the Code of Ethics or Code of Business Conduct or waivers that apply to any of our executive officers or our senior financial officers will be disclosed in the Corporate Governance section of our website as well. 7 Table of Contents