Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 19 Item 1C. Cyber Security 19 Item 2. Properties 19 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Our Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Reserved 31 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 47 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 48 Item 9B. Other Information 49 PART III Item 10. Trustees, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 50 Item 11. Executive Compensation 50 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 50 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Trustee Independence 50 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 50 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 50 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 54 SIGNATURES 55 2 Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Federal Realty Investment Trust and Federal Realty OP LP (together, we our or us ) and members of our management team, as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based, and generally are identified by the use of words such as may, will, seeks, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, plans, intends, should or similar expressions. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time, unless required by law. The following are some of the risks and uncertainties, although not all risks and uncertainties, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements: risks that our tenants will not pay rent, may vacate early or may file for bankruptcy or that we may be unable to renew leases or re-let space at favorable rents as leases expire or to fill existing vacancy; risks that we may not be able to proceed with or obtain necessary approvals for any development, redevelopment or renovation project, and that completion of anticipated or ongoing property development, redevelopment, or renovation projects that we do pursue may cost more, take more time to complete or fail to perform as expected; risks normally associated with the real estate industry, including risks that occupancy levels at our properties and the amount of rent that we receive from our properties may be lower than expected, that new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected, that competition for acquisitions could result in increased prices for acquisitions, that costs associated with the periodic maintenance and repair or renovation of space, insurance and other operations may increase, that environmental issues may develop at our properties and result in unanticipated costs, and, because real estate is illiquid, that we may not be able to sell properties when appropriate; risks that our growth will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital, or if the costs of capital we obtain are significantly higher than historical levels; risks associated with general economic conditions, including inflation and local economic conditions in our geographic markets; risks of financing on terms which are acceptable to us, our ability to meet existing financial covenants and the limitations imposed on our operations by those covenants, and the possibility of increases in interest rates that would result in increased interest expense; risks related to our status as a real estate investment trust, commonly referred to as a REIT, for federal income tax purposes, such as the existence of complex tax regulations relating to our status as a REIT, the effect of future changes in REIT requirements as a result of new legislation, and the adverse consequences of the failure to qualify as a REIT; and risks related to natural disasters, climate change and public health crises (such as the outbreak and worldwide spread of COVID-19), and the measures that international, federal, state and local governments, agencies, law enforcement and/or health authorities implement to address them, may precipitate or materially exacerbate one or more of the above-mentioned risks, and may significantly disrupt or prevent us from operating our business in the ordinary course for an extended period. In addition, we describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (Part II, Item 7A), and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations (Part II, Item 7). ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Federal Realty Investment Trust (the "Parent Company" or the "Trust") is an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Federal Realty OP LP (the "Operating Partnership") is the entity through which the Trust conducts substantially all of its operations and owns substantially off of its assets. The Trust owns 100% of the limited liability company interest of, is sole 3 Table of Contents member of, and exercises exclusive control over Federal Realty GP LLC (the "General Partner"), which in turn, is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, "we," "our," and "us" means the Trust and its business and operations conducted through its directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership. We specialize in the ownership, management, and redevelopment of high quality retail and mixed-use properties located primarily in communities where we believe retail demand exceeds supply, in strategically selected metropolitan markets in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions of the United States, California, and South Florida. As of December 31, 2023, we owned or had a majority interest in community and neighborhood shopping centers and mixed-use properties which are operated as 102 predominantly retail real estate projects comprising approximately 26.0 million commercial square feet. In total, the real estate projects were 94.2% leased and 92.2% occupied at December 31, 2023. Our revenue is primarily generated from lease agreements with tenants. We have paid quarterly dividends to our shareholders continuously since our founding in 1962 and have increased our dividends per common share for 56 consecutive years. We were founded in 1962 as a REIT under the laws of the District of Columbia and re-formed as a REIT in the state of Maryland in 1999. In January of 2022, we consummated the UPREIT reorganization described in the Explanatory Note at the beginning of this Annual Report. We operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes pursuant to provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ). Our principal executive offices are located at 909 Rose Avenue, North Bethesda, Maryland 20852. Our telephone number is (301) 998-8100. Our website address is www.federalrealty.com . The information contained on our website is not a part of this report and is not incorporated herein by reference. Business Objectives and Strategies Our primary business objective is to own, manage, acquire and redevelop a portfolio of high quality retail focused properties that will: provide increasing cash flow for distribution to shareholders; generate higher internal growth than the shopping center industry over the long term; provide potential for capital appreciation; and protect investor capital. Our portfolio includes, and we continue to acquire and redevelop, high quality retail in many formats ranging from regional, community and neighborhood shopping centers that often are anchored by grocery stores to mixed-use properties that are typically centered around a retail component but also include residential, office, and/or hotel components. Operating Strategies We continuously evaluate and assess our operating strategies to ensure they are effective and put us in the best position to address changes in the market. We actively manage our properties to maximize rents and maintain occupancy levels by attracting and retaining a strong and diverse base of tenants and replacing less relevant, weaker, underperforming tenants with stronger ones. Our properties are generally located in some of the most densely populated and affluent areas of the country. These strong demographics help our tenants generate higher sales, which has generally enabled us to maintain higher occupancy rates, charge higher rental rates, and maintain steady rent growth, all of which increase the value of our portfolio. Our operating strategies also include: increasing rental rates through the negotiation of contractual rental increases during the term of the lease, the renewal of expiring leases or the leasing of space to new tenants at higher rental rates while limiting vacancy and down-time; maintaining a diversified tenant base, thereby limiting exposure to any one tenant s financial or operating difficulties; monitoring the merchandising mix of our tenant base to achieve a balance of strong national and regional tenants with local specialty tenants; minimizing overhead and operating costs; monitoring the physical appearance of our properties and the construction quality, condition and design of the buildings and other improvements located on our properties to maximize our ability to attract customers and thereby generate higher rents and occupancy rates; managing our properties to take into account their impact on climate change and their resilience in the face of climate change; developing local and regional market expertise in order to capitalize on market and retailing trends; leveraging the contacts and experience of our management team to build and maintain long-term relationships with tenants; providing exceptional customer service; and creating an experience at many of our properties that is identifiable, unique and serves the surrounding communities to help insulate these properties and the tenants at these properties from the impact of on-line retailing. 4 Table of Contents Investing Strategies Our investment strategy is to deploy capital at risk-adjusted rates of return that exceed our long-term weighted average cost of capital in projects that have potential for future income growth and increased value. Our investments primarily fall into one of the following four categories: renovating, expanding, reconfiguring and/or retenanting our existing properties to take advantage of under-utilized land or existing square footage to increase revenue; renovating or expanding tenant spaces for tenants capable of producing higher sales, and therefore, paying higher rents; acquiring quality retail and mixed-use properties located in densely populated and/or affluent areas where barriers to entry for further development are high, and that have possibilities for enhancing operating performance and creating value through renovation, expansion, reconfiguration and/or retenanting; and developing the retail portions of mixed-use properties and developing or otherwise investing in non-retail portions of mixed-use properties we already own in order to capitalize on the overall value created in these properties. Investment Criteria When we evaluate potential redevelopment, retenanting, expansion, acquisition and development opportunities, we consider such factors as: the expected returns in relation to our short and long-term cost of capital as well as the anticipated risk we will face in achieving the expected returns; the anticipated growth rate of operating income generated by the property; the ability to increase the long-term value of the property through redevelopment and retenanting; the tenant mix at the property, tenant sales performance and the creditworthiness of those tenants; the geographic area in which the property is located, including the population density, household incomes, education levels, as well as the population and income trends in that geographic area. This may from time to time include the evaluation of new markets; competitive conditions in the vicinity of the property, including gross leasable area (GLA) per capita, competition for tenants and the ability of others to create competing properties through redevelopment, new construction or renovation; access to and visibility of the property from existing roadways and the potential for new, widened or realigned, roadways within the property s trade area, which may affect access and commuting and shopping patterns; the level and success of our existing investments in the market area; the current market value of the land, buildings and other improvements and the potential for increasing those market values; and the physical condition of the land, buildings and other improvements, including the structural and environmental condition. Financing Strategies Our financing strategies are designed to enable us to maintain an investment grade balance sheet while retaining sufficient flexibility to fund our operating and investing activities in the most cost-efficient way possible. Our financing strategies include: maintaining a prudent level of overall leverage and an appropriate pool of unencumbered properties that is sufficient to support our unsecured borrowings; managing our exposure to variable-rate debt; maintaining sufficient levels of cash and available line of credit to fund operating and investing needs on a short-term basis; taking advantage of market opportunities to refinance existing debt, reduce interest costs and manage our debt maturity schedule so that a significant portion of our debt relative to our size does not mature in any one year; selling properties that have limited growth potential or are not a strategic fit within our overall portfolio and redeploying the proceeds to redevelop, renovate, retenant and/or expand our existing properties, acquire new properties or reduce debt; and utilizing the most advantageous long-term source of capital available to us to finance redevelopment and acquisition opportunities, which may include: the sale of our equity or debt securities through public offerings, including our at-the-market ("ATM") equity program in which we may from time to time offer and sell common shares including through forward sales contracts, or private placements, the incurrence of indebtedness through unsecured or secured borrowings including exchangeable debt, 5 Table of Contents the issuance of units in our operating partnership (generally issued in exchange for a tax deferred contribution of property); these units typically receive the same distributions as our common shares and the holders of these units have the right to exchange their units for cash or common shares at our option, or the use of joint venture arrangements. Human Capital At February 7, 2024, we had 297 full-time employees and 7 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Diversity and Inclusion We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative action employer, and strive to maintain a workplace that is free from discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, disability, or protected Veteran status. Health, Safety, and Wellness We are committed to the health, safety, and wellness of our employees, and foster an environment that allows our people to succeed while balancing work and life. We provide our employees with access to health and wellness programs, which includes benefits that support both physical and mental health. We have also transitioned to a hybrid work model. Compensation and Benefits We provide competitive pay and benefits including health, dental, vision, short and long-term disability, life insurance and a 401(k) retirement program, as well as a generous paid time off program that includes vacation, sick, and personal leave. In addition to our equity awards program, we also offer a quarterly recognition program, as well as rewarding employees with spot bonuses for stellar performance or going above and beyond the base requirements of their job description. Talent Development Employees have access to a variety of different training courses, books, book summaries and audio books, and an array of source materials covering a myriad of different business and soft skills training subjects. Additionally, we provide reimbursement for tuition and professional licensures. Community Involvement Giving back to the community is an integral part of who we are and what we do. We provide ample ways to give back through programs at our properties or charitable endeavors and volunteer opportunities that also serve as team building exercises for our employees. Tax Status We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws when we filed our 1962 tax return. As a REIT, we are generally not subject to federal income tax on taxable income that we distribute to our shareholders. Under the Code, REITs are subject to numerous organizational and operational requirements, including the requirement to generally distribute at least 90% of taxable income each year. We will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income (including, for our taxable years ending on or prior to December 31, 2017, any applicable alternative minimum tax) at regular corporate rates if we fail to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes in any taxable year, or to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our taxable income. We will also generally not qualify for treatment as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for four years following the year during which qualification is lost. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to certain state and local income and franchise taxes and to federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed taxable income. We have elected to treat certain of our subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries, which we refer to as a TRS. In general, a TRS may engage in any real estate business and certain non-real estate businesses, subject to certain limitations under the Code. A TRS is subject to federal and state income taxes. Our TRS activities have not been material. General Economic Conditions The heightened levels of inflation, higher interest rates, and the potentially worsening of economic conditions presents risks for our business and our tenants. We continue to monitor and address risks related to the general state of the economy. The extent of the future effects on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and growth strategies is highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments, none of which can be predicted. 6 Table of Contents Governmental Regulations Affecting Our Properties We and our properties are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and similar laws. Please see Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risk Factors Related to our REIT Status and Other Laws and Regulations" for further discussion of potential material effects of our compliance with government regulation, including environmental regulations and the rules governing REITs. The application of these laws to a specific property that we own depends on a variety of property-specific circumstances, including the current and former uses of the property, the building materials used at the property and the physical layout of the property. Under certain environmental laws, we, as the owner or operator of properties currently or previously owned, may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances, asbestos-containing materials, or petroleum product releases at the property, we may be held liable for property damage and for investigation and clean up costs incurred in connection with the contamination, and we may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the real estate. Such costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Neither existing environmental, health, safety and similar laws nor the costs of our compliance with these laws has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, and management does not believe they will in the future. In addition, we have not incurred, and do not expect to incur, any material costs or liabilities due to environmental contamination at properties we currently own or have owned in the past. However, we cannot predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on properties we currently own or may acquire in the future. We have no current plans for substantial capital expenditures with respect to compliance with environmental, health, safety and similar laws and we carry environmental insurance which covers a number of environmental risks for most of our properties. Energy and Emissions Regulations Affecting Our Properties Some jurisdictions in which we own property have enacted or may enact legislation that requires use of only certain types of energy sources, limits energy usage on site, or limits allowable emissions from buildings with fines or other costs being imposed for exceeding those limits. This type of legislation typically includes an extended period of time from adoption to implementation to allow property owners ample opportunity to make investments and take other actions to comply with the legislation. Any investments we believe we will need to make to comply with laws that have been passed to date are being included as part of our ordinary capital improvement planning process for our properties. We also address the potential effects of these types of laws in our energy reduction and energy efficient efforts that are described in more detail in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Corporate Responsibility." These types of laws have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and management does not believe they will have a material adverse effect in the future. We cannot, however, predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations on properties we currently own or may acquire in the future Competition Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us with respect to the leasing and the acquisition of properties. Some of these competitors may possess greater capital resources than we do, although we do not believe that any single competitor or group of competitors in any of the primary markets where our properties are located are dominant in that market. This competition may: reduce the number of properties available for acquisition; increase the cost of properties available for acquisition; interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents; and adversely affect our ability to minimize expenses of operation. Retailers at our properties also face increasing competition from online retailers, outlet stores, discount shopping clubs, superstores, and other forms of sales and marketing of goods and services, such as direct mail. This competition could contribute to lease defaults and insolvency of tenants. Available Information Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ) are available free of charge through the Investors section of our website at www.federalrealty.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish the material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. 7 Table of Contents Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, Code of Ethics applicable to our Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers, Whistleblower Policy, organizational documents and the charters of our audit committee, compensation and human capital committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are all available in the Corporate Governance section of the Investors section of our website. Amendments to the Code of Ethics or Code of Business Conduct or waivers that apply to any of our executive officers or our senior financial officers will be disclosed in the Corporate Governance section of our website as well.