Item 1. Business 3 Information about Our Executive Officers 15 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 41 Item 2. Properties 41 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 41 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 41 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 42 Item 6. Reserved 43 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 64 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 64 Item 9B. Other Information 65 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 65 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 65 Item 11. Executive Compensation 65 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 66 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 66 Item 14. Principal A c countant Fees and Services 66 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 67 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 125 Signatures 126 Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to First Solar, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries as First Solar, the Company, we, us, and our. When referring to our manufacturing capacity, total sales, and solar module sales, the unit of electricity in watts for megawatts ( MW ) and gigawatts ( GW ) is direct current ( DC or DC ) unless otherwise noted. When referring to projects or systems, the unit of electricity in watts for MW and GW is alternating current ( AC or AC ) unless otherwise noted. Table of Contents NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), which are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. All statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements include statements, among other things, concerning: the length and severity of the ongoing COVID-19 (novel coronavirus) outbreak, including its impacts across our businesses on demand, manufacturing, project development, operations and maintenance ( O M ), financing, and our global supply chains, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities to contain the COVID-19 outbreak or to treat its impacts, and the ability of our customers, suppliers, equipment vendors, and other counterparties to fulfill their contractual obligations to us; effects resulting from certain module manufacturing changes; our business strategy, including anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate; future financial results, operating results, revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, products, projected costs (including estimated future module collection and recycling costs), warranties, solar module technology and cost reduction roadmaps, restructuring, product reliability, investments, and capital expenditures; our ability to continue to reduce the cost per watt of our solar modules; the impact of public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules; the potential impact of proposed legislation intended to encourage renewable energy investments through tax credits; effects resulting from pending litigation; our ability to expand manufacturing capacity worldwide; research and development ( R D ) programs and our ability to improve the wattage of our solar modules; sales and marketing initiatives; and competition. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words, such as estimate, expect, anticipate, project, plan, intend, seek, believe, forecast, foresee, likely, may, should, goal, target, might, will, could, predict, continue, and the negative or plural of these words, and other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and our projections about future events. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and therefore speak only as of the filing date. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements, including, but not limited to: structural imbalances in global supply and demand for photovoltaic ( PV ) solar modules; our competitive position and other key competitive factors; the market for renewable energy, including solar energy; the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, policies, and support programs for solar energy projects; our ability to execute on our solar module technology and cost reduction roadmaps; our ability to improve the wattage of our solar modules; the impact of public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules; the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including its potential impact on the Company s business, financial condition, and results of operations; 1 Table of Contents interest rate fluctuations and our customers ability to secure financing; our ability to execute on our long-term strategic plans; the loss of any of our large customers, or the ability of our customers and counterparties to perform under their contracts with us; the satisfaction of conditions precedent in our sales agreements; our ability to attract new customers and to develop and maintain existing customer and supplier relationships; claims under our limited warranty obligations; the supply and price of components and raw materials, including cadmium telluride ( CdTe ); supply chain disruption, including the availability of shipping containers, port congestion, canceled shipments by logistic providers, and the cost of fuel; our ability to convert existing or construct production facilities to support new product lines; future collection and recycling costs for solar modules covered by our module collection and recycling program; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our continued investment in R D; our ability to attract and retain key executive officers and associates; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations and environmental, health, and safety requirements; general economic and business conditions, including those influenced by U.S., international, and geopolitical events; environmental responsibility, including with respect to CdTe and other semiconductor materials; our ability to prevent and/or minimize the impact of cyber-attacks or other breaches of our information systems; effects arising from pending litigation; and all other matters discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described under this section. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are a leading American solar technology company and global provider of PV solar energy solutions. Developed at our R D labs in California and Ohio, we manufacture and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology that provide a high-performance, lower-carbon alternative to conventional crystalline silicon PV solar modules. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling, we are committed to reducing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. We are the world s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and the largest PV solar module manufacturer in the Western Hemisphere. In addressing the overall global demand for electricity, our modules provide energy at a lower levelized cost of electricity ( LCOE ), meaning the net present value of a system s total life cycle costs divided by the quantity of energy that is expected to be produced over the system s life, when compared to traditional forms of energy generation. With over $1 billion in cumulative R D investments in the last 10 years alone, we have a demonstrated history of innovation and continuous improvement. We believe our strategies and points of differentiation provide the foundation for our competitive position and enable us to remain one of the preferred providers of PV solar modules. Business Strategy Advanced Module Technology Our current module semiconductor structure is a single-junction polycrystalline thin film that uses CdTe as the absorption layer. CdTe has absorption properties that are well matched to the solar spectrum and can deliver competitive wattage using approximately 2% of the amount of semiconductor material used to manufacture conventional crystalline silicon modules. In terms of performance, in many climates our solar modules provide certain energy production advantages relative to competing crystalline silicon modules. For example, our CdTe solar technology provides: a superior temperature coefficient, which results in stronger system performance in typical high insolation climates as the majority of a system s generation, on average, occurs when module temperatures are well above 25 C (standard test conditions); a superior spectral response in humid environments where atmospheric moisture alters the solar spectrum relative to standard test conditions; a better partial shading response than competing crystalline silicon technologies, which may experience significantly lower energy generation than CdTe solar technologies when partial shading occurs; and an immunity to cell cracking and its resulting power output loss, a common failure often observed in crystalline silicon modules caused by poor manufacturing, handling, weather, or other conditions. In addition to these technological advantages, we also warrant that our PV solar modules will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor between 0.3% and 0.5%, depending on the module series, every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. Following the implementation of our Copper Replacement ( CuRe ) program, which replaces copper with certain other elements that are expected to enhance module performance, we expect the warranted degradation of our modules to decline to 0.2% per year in the near term. As a result of these and other factors, our PV solar modules can produce more annual energy in real world operating conditions than conventional crystalline silicon modules with the same nameplate capacity. For more information about the risks associated with our CuRe program, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Our failure to further refine our technology and 3 Table of Contents develop and introduce improved PV products, including as a result of delays in implementing planned advancements, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share. Manufacturing Process Our modules combine our leading-edge CdTe technology with the manufacturing excellence and quality control that comes from being the world s most experienced producer of thin film PV solar modules. With more than 40 GW DC of modules sold worldwide, we have a demonstrated history of manufacturing success and innovation. Our global manufacturing footprint includes facilities in the United States, Malaysia, and Vietnam, and we are expanding our global presence by constructing our first manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2023. Our modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow line. Such process eliminates the multiple supply chain operators and resource-intensive batch processing steps that are used to produce crystalline silicon modules, which typically occur over several days and across multiple factories. At the outset of our module production, a sheet of glass enters the production line and in a matter of hours is transformed into a completed module ready for shipment. This proprietary production process includes the following three stages: (i) the deposition stage, (ii) the cell definition and treatment stage, and (iii) the assembly and test stage. In the deposition stage, panels of transparent oxide-coated glass are robotically loaded onto the production line where they are cleaned, laser-mark identified with a serial number, heated, and coated with thin layers of CdTe and other semiconductor materials using our vapor transport deposition technology, after which the semiconductor-coated plates are cooled rapidly to increase glass strength. In the cell definition and treatment stage, we use high-speed lasers to transform the large continuous semiconductor coating on the glass plate into a series of interconnected cells that deliver the desired current and voltage output. In this stage, we also treat the semiconductor film using certain chemistries and processes to improve the device s performance and apply a metal sputtered back contact. In the assembly and test stage, we apply busbars, inter-layer material, and a rear glass cover sheet that is laminated to encapsulate the device. We then apply anti-reflective coating material to the substrate glass to further improve the module s performance by increasing its ability to absorb sunlight. Finally, junction boxes, termination wires, and a frame are applied to complete the module assembly. We maintain a robust quality and reliability assurance program that monitors critical process parameters and measures product performance to ensure that industry and more stringent internal standards are met. We also conduct acceptance testing for electrical leakage, visual quality, and power measurement on a solar simulator prior to preparing a module for shipment. Our quality and reliability tests complement production surveillance with an ongoing monitoring program, subjecting production modules to accelerated life stress testing to help ensure ongoing conformance to requirements of the International Electrotechnical Commission and Underwriters Laboratories Inc. These programs and tests help assure delivery of power and performance in the field with a high level of product quality and reliability. Research and Development Our R D model differentiates us from much of our competition due to its vertical integration, from advanced research to product development, manufacturing, and applications. We continue to devote substantial resources to our R D efforts, which generally focus on continually improving the wattage and energy yield of our solar modules. We also have R D programs to improve module durability and manufacturing efficiencies, including throughput, volume ramp, and material cost reduction. Based on publicly available information, we are one of the leaders in R D investment among PV solar module manufacturers, maintaining a rate of innovation that enables continual wattage gains and cost reductions. 4 Table of Contents In the course of our R D activities, we explore various technologies in our efforts to sustain competitive differentiation in our modules. We primarily conduct our R D activities and qualify process and product improvements for full production at our Perrysburg, Ohio plant and systematically propagate them to our other facilities. We believe that our systematic approach to technology change management enables continuous improvements and ensures uniform adoption across our production lines. In addition, our production lines are replicas or near replicas of each other and, as a result, a process or production improvement on one line can be rapidly and reliably deployed to other production lines. We regularly produce research cells in our laboratories, some of which are tested for performance and certified by independent labs, such as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Cell efficiency measures the proportion of light converted to electricity in a single solar cell at standard test conditions. Our research cells are produced using laboratory equipment and methods and are not intended to be representative of our manufacturing capability. Our module conversion efficiency has improved on average more than half a percent every year for the last ten years. We currently hold two world records for CdTe PV cell efficiency, achieving an independently certified research cell efficiency of 22.1% and a module aperture area efficiency of 19.7%. We believe that our record cells demonstrate a potential mid-term module efficiency entitlement of 25% in a multi-junction application, which is achievable using our commercial-scale manufacturing equipment. Sustainability We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products. Our thin film modules are manufactured through an integrated process that uses less energy, water, and semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon modules. Accordingly, our modules provide an ecologically leading solution to climate change, energy security, and water scarcity. On a lifecycle basis, our thin film module technology has the fastest energy payback time, smallest carbon footprint, and lowest water use of any competing PV solar technology. The energy payback time of our module technology, which is the amount of time a module must operate to recover the energy required to produce it, is facilitated by our proprietary production process. Our module energy payback time is approximately four months, which represents a 90-fold energy return on investment over a theoretical 30-year system lifetime and an abundant net energy gain to the electricity grid. Furthermore, our modules have a carbon footprint that is 2.5 times lower and a water footprint that is three times lower than conventional crystalline silicon modules, measured on a lifecycle basis that accounts for the energy and water used for the raw materials, throughout our manufacturing process, and during end-of-life module recycling. In addition, our industry-leading PV solar module recycling process further enhances our sustainability advantage by recovering approximately 90% of the glass for reuse in new glass products and over 90% of the semiconductor material for reuse in new modules. We are the only PV solar module manufacturer with global in-house recycling capabilities. Our Series 6 TM ( Series 6 ) and Series 6 Plus TM ( Series 6 Plus ) modules are the world s first and only PV products to be included in the Electronic Products Environmental Assessment Tool ( EPEAT ) Registry s Photovoltaic and Inverters product category. The EPEAT Registry enables the identification of credible sustainable electronic products from a broad range of manufacturers based on several factors, including the product s raw materials, manufacturing energy, water use, product packaging, end-of-life recycling, and corporate responsibility. We have also committed to the RE100 campaign, a collaborative, global initiative of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity, in which we plan to utilize renewable sources to power our manufacturing operations by 2028. We expect this commitment to further reduce the carbon footprint of our modules by 40%, further enabling our customers to achieve their sustainability objectives. 5 Table of Contents Financial Stability In addition to our sustainability commitments, we are also committed to creating long-term shareholder value through a decision-making framework that delivers a balance of growth, profitability, and liquidity. This framework has enabled us to fund our module manufacturing and capacity expansion initiatives primarily using cash flows generated by our operations despite substantial downward pressure on the price of solar modules due to competition, demand fluctuations, and significant overcapacity in the industry. Our financial stability provides strategic optionality as we evaluate how to invest in our business and generate returns for our shareholders. Our financial stability also enables us to offer meaningful warranties, which provide us with a competitive advantage relative to many of our peers in the solar industry. Furthermore, we expect our financial discipline and ability to manage operating costs to enhance our profitability as we continue to scale our business. Market Overview Solar energy is one of the fastest growing forms of renewable energy with numerous economic and environmental benefits that make it an attractive complement to and/or substitute for traditional forms of energy generation. In recent years, the price of PV solar power systems, and accordingly the cost of producing electricity from such systems, has dropped to levels that are competitive with or below the wholesale price of electricity in many markets. This rapid price decline has opened new possibilities to develop systems in many locations with limited or no financial incentives. Other technological developments in the industry, such as the advancement of energy storage capabilities, have further enhanced the prospects of solar energy as an alternative to traditional forms of energy generation. Furthermore, the fact that a PV solar power system requires no fuel provides a unique and valuable hedging benefit to owners of such systems relative to other generation assets. Once installed, PV solar power systems can function for over 35 years with relatively less maintenance or oversight compared to many other forms of generation. In addition to these economic benefits, solar energy has substantial environmental benefits. For example, PV solar power systems generate no greenhouse gas or other emissions and use minimal amounts of water compared to traditional energy generation assets. Worldwide solar markets continue to develop, aided by the above factors as well as demand elasticity resulting from declining industry average selling prices, both at the module and system level, which have made solar power one of the most economically attractive sources of energy. Although module average selling prices in many global markets have declined for several years, recent module spot pricing has increased, in part, due to elevated commodity and freight costs. For example, the price of polysilicon has significantly increased in recent months due to a coal shortage in China, which resulted in higher energy prices and the Chinese government mandating power restrictions that led to curtailments of silicon metal production. Given the majority of global polysilicon capacity is located in China, such higher energy prices and reduced operating capacities have adversely affected the supply of polysilicon, contributing to an increase in polysilicon pricing. In response to such supply shortage, certain other Chinese-based producers of polysilicon are in the process of expanding their production capacity, which is expected to reduce the price of polysilicon in future periods. Accordingly, while the duration of this elevated period of spot pricing is uncertain, module average selling prices in global markets are expected to decline in the long-term. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules, particularly those in China, have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. As a result, we believe the solar industry may experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that excess capacity will put pressure on pricing. Additionally, intense competition at the system level may result in an environment in which pricing falls rapidly, thereby potentially increasing demand for solar energy solutions but constraining the ability for project developers and module manufacturers to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. In light of such market realities, we continue to focus on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module technology, our manufacturing process, our research and development capabilities, the sustainability advantage of our modules, and our financial stability. 6 Table of Contents Global Markets We have established and continue to develop a global business presence. Energy markets are, by their nature, localized, with different drivers and market forces impacting electricity generation and demand in a particular region or for a particular application. Accordingly, our business is evolving worldwide and is shaped by the varying ways in which our modules can provide compelling and economically viable solutions to energy needs in various markets. We are currently focusing on markets, including those listed below, in which our CdTe solar modules provide certain advantages over conventional crystalline silicon solar modules, including high insolation climates in which our modules provide a superior temperature coefficient, humid environments in which our modules provide a superior spectral response, and markets that favor the superior sustainability profile of our PV solar technology. To the extent our production capacity expands in future periods, we have the potential to extend our focus to additional geographic markets. United States. Multiple markets within the United States, which accounted for 84% of our 2021 net sales, exemplify favorable characteristics for a solar market, including (i) sizeable electricity demand, particularly around growing population centers and industrial areas; (ii) strong demand for renewable energy generation; and (iii) abundant solar resources. In those areas and applications in which these factors are more pronounced, our PV solar modules compete favorably on an economic basis with traditional forms of energy generation. The market penetration of PV solar is also impacted by certain federal and state support programs, including the federal investment tax credit, as described below under Support Programs. As a result of such market opportunities, we recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by 3.3 GW DC by constructing our third U.S. manufacturing facility, which is expected to commence operations in the first half of 2023. Upon completion of this facility, which commenced construction in late 2021, we expect our U.S. manufacturing capacity to be approximately 6 GW DC . India. India continues to represent one of the largest and fastest growing markets for PV solar energy with an installed generation capacity of approximately 45 GW AC , approximately 45 GW AC of projects under various stages of construction, and over 20 GW AC of new projects being contracted under active procurement programs. In addition, the government has established aggressive renewable energy targets, which include increasing the country s overall renewable energy capacity to 500 GW AC by 2030 and establishing a net-zero carbon emissions target by 2070. Based on these targets, it is projected that the solar energy generation capacity will be 300 GW AC by 2030. The government has also announced a series of policy and regulatory measures to incentivize domestic manufacturing of PV solar modules, as described below under Support Programs. These targets, policies, and regulatory measures are expected to help create significant and sustained demand for PV solar energy. In addition to these factors, our CdTe solar technology is well suited for the India market given its hot and humid climate conditions. As a result of such market opportunities, we recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by an additional 3.3 GW DC by constructing our first manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2023. Such expansion builds upon our existing presence of approximately 2 GW DC of modules sold in India. Europe . Most markets across Europe reflect strong demand for PV solar energy due to its ability to compete economically with more traditional forms of energy generation. During 2021, European Union ( EU ) member states added a combined 26 GW DC of solar capacity, representing the largest annual solar deployment in the region in the last 10 years. Such expansion, which was primarily driven by solar capacity additions in Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Poland, and France, brings the region s installed generation capacity to approximately 165 GW DC . We continue to pursue module sales activities in many of the countries mentioned above. Japan. Japan s electricity markets have various characteristics that make them attractive for PV solar energy investments. In particular, Japan has few domestic fossil fuel resources and relies heavily on fossil fuel imports. Following the Fukushima earthquake in 2011, the country introduced