Item 1. Business 3 Information about Our Executive Officers 16 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 46 Item 2. Properties 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 47 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 47 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 71 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 73 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 73 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 73 Item 9B. Other Information 74 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 75 Item 11. Executive Compensation 75 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 75 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 76 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 76 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 76 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 140 Signatures 141 Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to First Solar, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries as First Solar, the Company, we, us, and our. When referring to our manufacturing capacity, total sales, and solar module sales, the unit of electricity in watts for megawatts ( MW ) and gigawatts ( GW ) is direct current ( DC or DC ) unless otherwise noted. When referring to our projects or systems, the unit of electricity in watts for MW and GW is alternating current ( AC or AC ) unless otherwise noted. Table of Contents NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), which are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. All statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements include statements, among other things, concerning: effects resulting from certain module manufacturing changes and associated restructuring activities; our business strategy, including anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate; future financial results, operating results, revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, products, projected costs (including estimated future module collection and recycling costs), warranties, solar module technology and cost reduction roadmaps, restructuring, product reliability, investments, and capital expenditures; our ability to continue to reduce the cost per watt of our solar modules; the impact of public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules; effects resulting from pending litigation, including the opt-out action against us; our ability to expand manufacturing capacity worldwide; our ability to reduce the costs to develop and construct photovoltaic ( PV ) solar power systems; research and development ( R D ) programs and our ability to improve the wattage of our solar modules; sales and marketing initiatives; and competition. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words, such as estimate, expect, anticipate, project, plan, intend, seek, believe, forecast, foresee, likely, may, should, goal, target, might, will, could, predict, continue, and the negative or plural of these words, and other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and our projections about future events. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and therefore speak only as of the filing date. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements, including, but not limited to: structural imbalances in global supply and demand for PV solar modules; the market for renewable energy, including solar energy; our competitive position and other key competitive factors; reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, policies, and support programs for solar energy projects; our ability to execute on our long-term strategic plans; our ability to execute on our solar module technology and cost reduction roadmaps; the loss of any of our large customers, or their inability to perform under their contracts with us; our ability to attract new customers and to develop and maintain existing customer and supplier relationships; interest rate fluctuations and both our and our customers ability to secure financing; our ability to successfully develop and complete our systems business projects; our ability to convert existing or construct production facilities to support new product lines; 1 Table of Contents general economic and business conditions, including those influenced by U.S., international, and geopolitical events; environmental responsibility, including with respect to cadmium telluride ( CdTe ) and other semiconductor materials; claims under our limited warranty obligations; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations and environmental, health, and safety requirements; future collection and recycling costs for solar modules covered by our module collection and recycling program; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our ability to prevent and/or minimize the impact of cyber-attacks or other breaches of our information systems; our continued investment in R D; the supply and price of components and raw materials, including CdTe; our ability to attract and retain key executive officers and associates; and all other matters discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described under this section. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are a leading global provider of comprehensive PV solar energy solutions. We design, manufacture, and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology and also develop and sell PV solar power systems that primarily use the modules we manufacture. Additionally, we provide operations and maintenance ( O M ) services to system owners. We have substantial, ongoing R D efforts focused on various technology innovations. We are the world s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and one of the world s largest PV solar module manufacturers. In addressing the overall global demand for electricity, our high-efficiency CdTe modules, which leverage our Series 6 TM ( Series 6 ) module technology, and power plant solutions compete favorably on an economic basis with traditional forms of energy generation and provide low cost electricity to end users. Our diverse capabilities facilitate the sale of these solutions and the adoption of our technology in key markets around the world. We believe our strategies and points of differentiation provide the foundation for our leading industry position and enable us to remain one of the preferred providers of PV solar energy solutions. Business Strategy Differentiated Technology As a field-proven technology, our CdTe solar modules offer certain advantages over conventional crystalline silicon solar modules by delivering competitive efficiency, higher real-world energy yield, and long-term reliability. Proven to deliver up to 8% more usable energy per nameplate watt than monofacial crystalline silicon technologies in certain geographic markets and with a record of reliable system performance, our CdTe technology delivers more energy, more consistently, over the lifetime of a PV solar power system. Our Series 6 module technology, with its combination of high wattage, low manufacturing costs, a larger form factor, and balance of systems ( BoS ) component compatibility, has further enhanced our competitive position since the launch of such technology in 2018. In terms of energy yield, in many climates our CdTe solar modules provide an energy production advantage over most monofacial crystalline silicon solar modules of equivalent efficiency rating. For example, our CdTe solar modules provide a superior temperature coefficient, which results in stronger system performance in typical high insolation climates as the majority of a system s generation, on average, occurs when module temperatures are well above 25 C (standard test conditions). In addition, our CdTe solar modules provide a superior spectral response in humid environments where atmospheric moisture alters the solar spectrum relative to laboratory standards. Our CdTe solar modules also provide a better shading response than conventional crystalline silicon solar modules, which may lose up to three times as much power as CdTe solar modules when shading occurs. As a result of these and other factors, our PV solar modules typically produce more annual energy in real world field conditions than conventional modules with the same nameplate capacity. Manufacturing Process Our modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow line. Such manufacturing process eliminates the multiple supply chain operators and time-consuming and resource-intensive batch processing steps that are used to produce crystalline silicon solar modules. At the outset of the production of our modules, a sheet of glass enters the production line and in a matter of hours is transformed into a completed module, which is flash tested, packaged, and ready for shipment. With more than 25 GW DC of modules sold worldwide, we have a demonstrated history of manufacturing success and innovation. We have a global manufacturing footprint with facilities based in the United States, Malaysia, and Vietnam. 3 Table of Contents Diversified Capabilities We are diversified across the solar value chain. Many of the efficiencies and capabilities that we deliver to our customers are not easily replicable for other industry participants that are not diversified in a similar manner. Accordingly, our operational model offers PV solar energy solutions that benefit from our wide range of capabilities, including advanced PV solar module manufacturing, project development, engineering and plant optimization, grid integration and plant control systems, construction services, and O M services. Financial Viability We are committed to creating long-term shareholder value through a decision-making framework that delivers a balance of growth, profitability, and liquidity. This framework has enabled us to fund our Series 6 manufacturing and capacity expansion initiatives using cash flows generated by our operations despite substantial downward pressure on the price of solar modules and systems due to competition, demand fluctuations, and significant overcapacity in the industry. Our financial viability provides strategic optionality as we evaluate how to invest in our business and generate returns for our shareholders. Our financial viability and bankability also enable us to offer meaningful warranties, which provide us with a competitive advantage relative to many of our peers in the solar industry in the context of project financing and offering PV solar energy solutions to long-term owners. Furthermore, we expect our financial discipline and ability to manage operating costs to enhance our profitability as we continue to scale our business. Sustainability In addition to our financial commitments, we are also committed to minimizing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle, from raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling. Accordingly, our modules and systems provide an ecologically leading solution to climate change, energy security, and water scarcity, which also enables our customers to achieve their sustainability objectives. On a lifecycle basis, our thin film module technology has the fastest energy payback time, smallest carbon footprint, and lowest water use of any PV solar technology on the market. The energy payback time (which is the amount of time a system must operate to recover the energy required to produce it) of our module technology is facilitated by our specialized manufacturing process. In less than six months under high irradiance conditions, our systems produce more energy than was required to create them. This energy payback time represents a 50-fold energy return on investment over a theoretical 25-year system lifetime and an abundant net energy gain to the electricity grid. Our module technology also has a carbon footprint that is up to six times lower than the carbon footprint of conventional crystalline silicon modules and a fraction of the carbon footprint of conventional energy sources. Furthermore, our module technology displaces up to 98% of greenhouse gas emissions and other air pollutants when replacing traditional forms of energy generation. Our modules also use up to 400 times less water per MW hour than conventional energy sources and up to 24 times less water than other PV solar modules. In addition, our industry-leading recycling process further enhances our sustainability advantage by recovering approximately 90% of the glass for reuse in new glass products and over 90% of the semiconductor material for reuse in new modules. 4 Table of Contents Offerings and Capabilities We are focusing on markets and energy applications in which solar power can be a least-cost, best-fit energy solution, particularly in regions with high solar resources, significant current or projected electricity demand, and/or relatively high existing electricity prices. We differentiate our product offerings by geographic market and localize the solution, as needed. Our consultative approach to our customers solar energy needs and capabilities results in customized solutions to meet their economic goals. As a result, we have designed our product and service offerings according to the following business areas: PV Solar Modules . Our modules couple our leading-edge CdTe technology with the manufacturing excellence and quality control that comes from being one of the world s most experienced producers of advanced PV solar modules. Our technology demonstrates a proven performance advantage over most monofacial crystalline silicon solar modules of equivalent efficiency rating by delivering higher real-world energy yield and long-term reliability. We are able to provide such product performance, quality, and reliability to our customers due, in large part, to our consistent and sustained investments in R D activities. Utility-Scale Power Plants . We have extensive, proven experience in the development, engineering, and construction of reliable grid-connected power systems for utility-scale generation. Our grid-connected systems support a diversified energy portfolio, reduce fossil-fuel consumption, mitigate the risk of fuel price volatility, and save costs, proving that centralized solar generation can deliver dependable and affordable solar electricity to the grid around the world. Our plant control systems provide reliability services, such as frequency control, voltage control, ramping capacity, and automated generation control, which enable expanded integration of PV solar power systems into the power grid. Such reliability services also help balance the grid during times of high renewable energy generation. Our solar energy systems also offer a meaningful value proposition by eliminating commodity price risks thereby providing a long-term fixed price with relatively low operating costs. When compared to the price of power derived from a conventional source of energy, a fixed price cannot be achieved unless the cost of hedging is included. Hedging costs of a commodity such as natural gas, along with the costs of credit support required for a long-term hedge, can significantly increase conventional energy costs. Additional benefits of our grid-connected power systems include reductions of fuel imports and improvements in energy security, enhanced peaking generation and faster time-to-power, and managed variability through accurate forecasting. O M Services . By leveraging our extensive experience in plant optimization and advanced diagnostics, we have developed one of the largest and most advanced O M programs in the industry, including more than 10 GW DC of utility-scale PV solar power systems, while maintaining an average fleet system effective availability greater than 99% . Utilizing a state of the art global operations center, our team of O M associates provide a variety of services to optimize system performance and comply with power purchase agreements ( PPA ), other project agreements, and regulations. Our products and services are engineered to enable the maximization of energy output and revenue for our customers while significantly reducing their unplanned maintenance costs. Plant owners benefit from predictable expenses over the life of the contract and reduced risk of energy loss. Our O M program is compliant with the North American Electric Reliability Corporation ( NERC ) standards and is designed to scale to accommodate the growing O M needs of customers worldwide. We offer our O M services to solar power plant owners that use either our solar modules or modules manufactured by third parties. Following an evaluation of the long-term sustainable cost structure, competitiveness, and risk-adjusted returns of our U.S. project development business, we have determined it is in the best interest of our stockholders to explore options for this business line. This exploration may result in, among other possibilities, a partnership with a third party who possesses complimentary competencies or a sale of all or a portion of our U.S. project development business. This exploration of options for our U.S. project development business is not subject to any definitive timetable and there can be no assurances that this process will result in any transaction. 5 Table of Contents Market Overview Solar energy is one of the fastest growing forms of renewable energy with numerous economic and environmental benefits that make it an attractive complement to and/or substitute for traditional forms of energy generation. In recent years, the price of PV solar power systems, and accordingly the cost of producing electricity from such systems, has dropped to levels that are competitive with or below the wholesale price of electricity in many markets. This rapid price decline has opened new possibilities to develop systems in many locations with limited or no financial incentives. Other technological developments in the industry, such as the advancement of energy storage capabilities, have further enhanced the prospects of solar energy as an alternative to traditional forms of energy generation. Furthermore, the fact that a PV solar power system requires no fuel provides a unique and valuable hedging benefit to owners of such systems relative to traditional energy generation assets. Once installed, PV solar power systems can function for over 35 years with relatively less maintenance or oversight compared to many other forms of generation. In addition to these economic benefits, solar energy has substantial environmental benefits. For example, PV solar power systems generate no greenhouse gas or other emissions and use minimal amounts of water compared to traditional energy generation assets. Worldwide solar markets continue to develop, aided by the above factors as well as demand elasticity resulting from declining industry average selling prices, both at the module and system level, which have made solar power one of the most economically attractive sources of energy. Module average selling prices in many global markets have declined in recent years and are expected to continue to decline to some degree in the future. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. We believe the solar industry may from time to time experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that such periods will continue to put pressure on pricing. Additionally, intense competition at the system level may result in an environment in which pricing falls rapidly, thereby further increasing demand for solar energy solutions but constraining the ability for project developers and diversified module manufacturers to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. In light of such market realities, we are focusing on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module technology, our manufacturing process, our diversified capabilities, our financial viability, and the sustainability advantage of our modules and systems. Global Markets We have established and continue to develop a global business presence. Energy markets are, by their nature, localized, with different drivers and market forces impacting electricity generation and demand in a particular region or for a particular application. Accordingly, our business is evolving worldwide and is shaped by the varying ways in which our offerings can be compelling and economically viable solutions to energy needs in various markets. The following represent the key markets for our modules and systems. The Americas United States. Multiple markets within the United States, which accounted for 87% of our 2019 net sales, exemplify favorable characteristics for a solar market, including (i) sizeable electricity demand, particularly around growing population centers and industrial areas; (ii) strong demand for renewable energy generation; and (iii) abundant solar resources. In those areas and applications in which these factors are more pronounced, our PV solar energy solutions compete favorably on an economic basis with traditional forms of energy generation. The market penetration of PV solar is also impacted by certain federal and state support programs, including the federal investment tax credit, as described below under Support Programs. We have significant experience and a market leadership position in developing and operating utility-scale power plants in the United States, particularly in California, other western states, and southeastern states. Currently, our solar projects in the United States represent the majority of the advanced-stage pipeline of projects that we are actively developing or constructing. See Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Systems Project Pipeline for more information about these projects. 6 Table of Contents Other Americas. Outside the United States, we have drawn on our industry expertise and module technology advantages to make inroads in certain Central and South American markets. Accordingly, we continue to pursue module sale opportunities in Mexico and Brazil while monitoring opportunities in other countries with high growth potential. Asia-Pacific Australia. Australia is a promising region for PV solar energy with continued growth expected over the next several years. Much of this growth is being driven by several factors, including an increased demand for PPAs from Australian commercial and industrial companies, certain government programs, and continued procurement from local utilities as well as the emergence of a merchant power market. We continue to focus our efforts in the region on utility-scale project development, including our self-developed projects in Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria, while increasing our O M services and third-party module sales. In June 2019, we completed the sale of our 87 MW AC Beryl project located in New South Wales. Japan. Japan s electricity markets have various characteristics, which make them attractive markets for PV solar energy. In particular, Japan has few domestic fossil fuel resources and relies heavily on fossil fuel imports. Following the Fukushima earthquake in 2011, the country introduced certain initiatives to limit its reliance on nuclear power. Accordingly, the Japanese government announced a long-term goal of dramatically increasing installed solar power capacity and provided various incentives for solar power installations. In recent years, we have partnered with local companies to develop, construct, and operate various PV solar power systems, which are expected to mitigate Japan s dependence on fossil fuel imports and nuclear power. In 2019, we commenced construction of a 38 MW AC project in Kyoto prefecture, a 17 MW AC project in Ishikawa prefecture, and an 11 MW AC project in Ibaraki prefecture. We continue to operate the 59 MW AC Ishikawa project and provide O M services to certain other projects we previously sold in 2018. We continue to pursue other utility-scale project development, O M, and module sale opportunities in the region. Europe, the Middle East, and India Europe . Most markets across Europe reflect strong demand for PV solar energy due to its ability to compete economically with more traditional forms of energy generation. In particular, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain are all running tenders in which utility-scale PV solar projects can bid for capacity. Such tenders and other recent market developments indicate the potential for further growth in the demand for PV solar energy beyond the region s installed generation capacity of approximately 135 GW DC . We continue to pursue module sales activities in many of the countries mentioned above. The Middle East. The market potential for solar energy in the Middle East continues to be driven by a combination of strong economic fundamentals, aggressive tariff pricing, abundant solar resources, and robust policy. Egypt, Jordan, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and The United Arab Emirates (the UAE ) have established utility-scale solar programs, which are at varying degrees of maturity. Jordan and the UAE lead the region with policy mechanisms designed to ramp up the amount of renewable energy in their generation portfolios. While there are various motives for investing in solar energy, including energy security, diversification of generation portfolios, and the minimization of domestic consumption of hydrocarbons, the common factor is that the economics of PV solar energy have made it a compelling energy generation source. We have sold approximately 400 MW DC of modules in the region and continue to pursue additional module sales opportunities. India. India continues to represent one of the largest and fastest growing markets for PV solar energy with an installed generation capacity of over 35 GW DC , another 12 GW DC of projects in development or construction, and over 20 GW DC of new procurement programs announced. In addition, the government has established aggressive renewable energy targets, which include increasing the country s solar capacity to 100 GW AC by 2022. These targets, along with various policy and regulatory measures, help create significant and sustained demand for PV solar energy. Accordingly, we expect to continue selling modules to local integrators and operators of systems to address the region s energy needs. We currently own and operate three projects with an aggregate capacity of 50 MW AC located in Telangana and Karnataka, for which we have secured rights to sell power under separate 25-year PPAs to state owned electricity distribution 7 Table of Contents companies. In addition, we continue to maintain our strong module presence in the region with approximately 2 GW DC of installed modules. Support Programs Although we compete in many markets that do not require solar-specific government subsidies or support programs, our net sales and profits remain subject, in the near term, to variability based on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives, such as quotas, renewable portfolio standards, and tendering systems. In addition to these support programs, financial incentives for PV solar energy generation may include tax and production incentives. Although we expect to become less impacted by and less dependent on these forms of government support over time, such programs continue to influence the demand for PV solar energy around the world. In Europe, renewable energy targets, in conjunction with tenders for utility-scale PV solar and other support measures, have contributed to growth in PV solar markets. Renewable energy targets prescribe how much energy consumption must come from renewable sources, while incentive policies and competitive tender policies are intended to support new supply dev