Item 1. Business 3 Information about Our Executive Officers 15 Item 1A. Risk Factors 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 43 Item 2. Properties 44 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 44 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. Reserved 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 46 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 64 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 Item 9B. Other Information 67 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 67 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 67 Item 11. Executive Compensation 67 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 68 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 68 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 68 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 69 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 Signatures 125 Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to First Solar, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries as First Solar, the Company, we, us, and our. Units of electricity are typically stated in megawatts ( MW ) and gigawatts ( GW ). Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), which are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. All statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements include statements, among other things, concerning: effects resulting from certain module manufacturing changes; our business strategy, including anticipated trends and developments in and management plans for our business and the markets in which we operate; future financial results, operating results, module volumes produced, module volumes sold, revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, products, projected costs (including estimated future module collection and recycling costs), warranties, solar module technology and cost reduction roadmaps, restructuring, product reliability, investments, and capital expenditures; our ability to successfully integrate an acquired business; our ability to continue to reduce the cost per watt of our solar modules; the impact of public policies; the potential impact of legislation intended to encourage renewable energy investments through tax credits; our ability to expand manufacturing capacity worldwide, including our plans to construct new manufacturing facilities in the United States and related increases in manufacturing capacity; the impact of supply chain disruptions, which may affect the procurement of raw materials used in our manufacturing process and the distribution of our modules; research and development programs and our ability to improve the wattage of our solar modules; sales and marketing initiatives; and competition. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words, such as estimate, expect, anticipate, project, plan, intend, seek, believe, forecast, foresee, likely, may, should, goal, target, might, will, could, predict, continue, contingent, and the negative or plural of these words, and other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and our projections about future events. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and therefore speak only as of the filing date. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: structural imbalances in global supply and demand for photovoltaic solar modules; our competitive position and other key competitive factors; the reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, policies, and support programs for solar energy projects and other renewable energy projects; the impact of public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules; the passage of legislation intended to encourage renewable energy investments through tax credits, such as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022; our ability to execute on our long-term strategic plans, including our ability to secure financing and realize the potential benefits of strategic acquisitions and investments; our ability to execute on our solar module technology and cost reduction roadmaps; our ability to incorporate technology improvements into our manufacturing process, including the implementation of our copper replacement program; our ability to avoid manufacturing interruptions, including during the ramp of our Series 7 modules manufacturing facilities; 1 Table of Contents our ability to improve the wattage of our solar modules; interest rate fluctuations and our customers ability to secure financing; the loss of any of our large customers, or the ability of our customers and counterparties to perform under their contracts with us; the severity and duration of public health threats, including the potential impact on the Company s business, financial condition, and results of operations; our ability to attract new customers and to develop and maintain existing customer and supplier relationships; our ability to construct new production facilities to support new product lines; general economic and business conditions, including those influenced by U.S., international, and geopolitical events; environmental responsibility, including with respect to Cadmium Telluride and other semiconductor materials; evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations, including with respect to environmental, social, and governance matters; claims under our limited warranty obligations; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations and environmental, health, and safety requirements; effects arising from and results of pending litigation; future collection and recycling costs for solar modules covered by our module collection and recycling program; supply chain disruptions, including demurrage and detention charges; our ability to protect our intellectual property; our ability to prevent and/or minimize the impact of cybersecurity incidents or information or security breaches; our continued investment in research and development; the supply and price of components and raw materials, including Cadmium Telluride; our ability to attract, train, retain, and successfully integrate key talent into our team; and all other matters discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described under this section. The following discussion and analysis of our business, financial condition, and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Company Overview We are a leading American solar technology company and global provider of photovoltaic ( PV ) solar energy solutions. Developed at our research and development ( R D ) labs in California and Ohio, we manufacture and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology that provide a high-performance, lower-carbon alternative to conventional crystalline silicon PV solar modules. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling, we are committed to reducing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. We are the world s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and the largest PV solar module manufacturer in the Western Hemisphere. In addressing the overall global demand for electricity, PV solar modules provide energy at a lower levelized cost of electricity ( LCOE ), meaning the net present value of a system s total life cycle costs divided by the quantity of energy that is expected to be produced over the system s life, when compared to traditional forms of energy generation. With over $1 billion in cumulative R D investments in the last 10 years alone, we have a demonstrated history of innovation and continuous improvement. We believe our strategies and points of differentiation provide the foundation for our competitive position and enable us to remain one of the preferred providers of PV solar modules. Business Strategy Advanced Module Technology Our current module semiconductor structure is a single-junction polycrystalline thin film that uses Cadmium Telluride ( CdTe ) as the absorption layer. CdTe has absorption properties that are well matched to the solar spectrum and can deliver competitive wattage using approximately 2% to 3% of the amount of semiconductor material used to manufacture conventional crystalline silicon modules. In terms of performance, in many climates our solar modules provide certain energy production advantages relative to competing crystalline silicon modules. For example, our CdTe solar technology provides: a superior temperature coefficient, which results in stronger system performance in typical high insolation climates as the majority of a system s generation, on average, occurs when module temperatures are well above 25 C (standard test conditions); a superior spectral response in humid environments where atmospheric moisture alters the solar spectrum relative to standard test conditions; a better partial shading response than competing crystalline silicon technologies, which may experience significantly lower energy generation than CdTe solar technologies when partial shading occurs; and an immunity to cell cracking and its resulting power output loss, a common failure often observed in crystalline silicon modules caused by poor manufacturing, handling, weather, or other conditions. In addition to these technological advantages, we also warrant that our solar modules will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor between 0.3% and 0.5%, depending on the module series, every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. As a result of these and other factors, our solar modules can produce more annual energy in real world operating conditions than conventional crystalline silicon modules with the same nameplate capacity. 3 Table of Contents Manufacturing Process and Distributed Manufacturing Presence Our modules combine our leading-edge CdTe technology with the manufacturing excellence and quality control that comes from being the world s most experienced producer of thin film PV solar modules. With more than 60 GW of modules sold worldwide, we have a demonstrated history of manufacturing success and innovation. Our global manufacturing footprint includes facilities in the United States, Malaysia, Vietnam, and India. During 2023, we commenced production of our Series 7 TM ( Series 7 ) modules at our third manufacturing facility in Ohio and our first manufacturing facility in India, which combine our thin film CdTe technology with a larger form factor and an innovative steel back rail mounting structure that reduces module installation time. Additionally, we are in the process of expanding our manufacturing capacity by approximately 8 GW, including the construction of our fourth U.S. manufacturing facility in Alabama, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2024; our fifth U.S. manufacturing facility in Louisiana, which is expected to commence operations in late 2025; and the expansion of our manufacturing footprint at our existing facilities in Ohio, which is expected to be completed in the first half of 2024. Our modules are manufactured in a high-throughput, automated environment that integrates all manufacturing steps into a continuous flow process. This process eliminates the multiple supply chain operators and resource-intensive batch processing steps that are used to produce crystalline silicon modules, which typically occur over several days and across multiple factories. At the outset of our module production, a sheet of glass enters the production line and in a matter of hours is transformed into a completed module ready for shipment. This proprietary production process includes the following three stages: (i) the deposition stage, (ii) the cell definition and treatment stage, and (iii) the assembly and test stage. In the deposition stage, panels of transparent oxide-coated glass are robotically loaded onto the production line where they are cleaned, laser-mark identified with a serial number, heated, and coated with thin layers of CdTe and other semiconductor materials using our vapor transport deposition technology, after which the semiconductor-coated plates are cooled rapidly to increase glass strength. In the cell definition and treatment stage, we use high-speed lasers to transform the large continuous semiconductor coating on the glass plate into a series of interconnected cells that deliver the desired current and voltage output. In this stage, we also treat the semiconductor film using certain chemistries and processes to improve the device s performance and apply a back contact. In the assembly and test stage, we apply busbars, inter-layer material, and a rear glass cover sheet that is laminated to encapsulate the device. We then apply anti-reflective coating material to the substrate glass to further improve the module s performance by increasing its ability to absorb sunlight. Finally, junction boxes, termination wires, and a frame are applied to complete the module assembly. We maintain a robust quality and reliability assurance program that monitors critical process parameters and measures product performance to ensure that industry and more stringent internal standards are met. We also conduct acceptance testing for electrical leakage, visual quality, and power measurement on a solar simulator prior to preparing a module for shipment. Our quality and reliability tests complement production surveillance with an ongoing monitoring program, subjecting production modules to accelerated life stress testing to help ensure ongoing conformance to requirements of the International Electrotechnical Commission and Underwriters Laboratories Inc. These programs and tests help assure delivery of power and performance in the field with a high level of product quality and reliability. Research and Development Our R D model differentiates us from much of our competition due to its vertical integration, from advanced research to product development, manufacturing, and applications. We continue to devote substantial resources to our R D efforts, which generally focus on continually improving the wattage and energy yield of our solar modules. We also have R D programs to improve module durability and manufacturing efficiencies, including throughput, volume ramp, and material cost reduction. We continue to invest significant financial resources in such initiatives, including the construction of a dedicated perovskite development line and the construction of a dedicated 4 Table of Contents R D facility in the United States to support the implementation of our technology roadmap. We expect this R D facility to be completed in 2024 and to feature a high-tech pilot manufacturing line, enabling production of full-sized prototypes of thin film and tandem PV modules. Based on publicly available information, we are one of the leaders in R D investment among PV solar module manufacturers. In the course of our R D activities, we explore various technologies in our efforts to sustain competitive differentiation in our modules. We primarily conduct our R D activities and qualify process and product improvements for full production at our Perrysburg, Ohio plant and systematically deploy them to our other facilities. We believe our systematic approach to technology change management enables continuous improvements and ensures uniform adoption across our production lines. In addition, our production lines are replicas or near replicas of each other and, as a result, a process or production improvement on one line can be rapidly and reliably replicated across other production lines. We regularly produce research cells in our laboratories, some of which are tested for performance and certified by independent labs, such as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Cell efficiency measures the proportion of light converted to electricity in a single solar cell under standard test conditions. Our research cells are produced using laboratory equipment and methods and are not intended to be representative of our manufacturing capability. Our module conversion efficiency has improved on average more than half a percent every year for the last 10 years. We currently hold two world records for CdTe PV cell efficiency, achieving an independently certified research cell efficiency of 22.6% and a module aperture area efficiency of 19.9%. We continue to evaluate opportunities to develop and leverage other solar cell technologies in multi-junction applications consisting of CdTe, silicon, or other materials. For example, during 2023 we acquired Evolar AB ( Evolar ), a European developer of perovskite technology. This acquisition is expected to accelerate the development of high efficiency multi-junction devices by integrating Evolar s know-how with First Solar s existing R D capabilities, intellectual property portfolio, and expertise in developing and commercially scaling thin film PV products. We believe such multi-junction applications have the potential to significantly increase the efficiency of PV modules beyond the limits of traditional single-junction devices. Sustainability We are committed to enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products and reducing our carbon footprint, even as we continue to increase our manufacturing capacity and module throughput. Our thin film modules are manufactured through an integrated process that uses less energy, water, and semiconductor material than conventional crystalline silicon modules. Accordingly, our modules provide an ecologically leading solution to address climate change, energy security, and water scarcity. Our thin film module technology has the fastest energy payback time, smallest carbon footprint, and lowest water use of any competing PV solar technology, measured on a lifecycle basis that accounts for the energy, raw materials, water usage, and transportation across the supply chain, manufacturing process, and end-of-life module recycling. Our Series 7 module is our most eco-efficient product to date, with a carbon and water footprint that is approximately four times lower than conventional crystalline silicon modules manufactured in China and an energy payback time that is approximately five times faster. In just two months under high irradiation conditions, our Series 7 modules produce more energy than was required to create them. This corresponds to a 180-fold energy return on investment over a 30-year project lifetime, providing an abundant net energy gain to the electricity grid. Our Series 7 modules are also made of approximately 16% recycled content. First Solar modules are designed for high-value recycling to maximize material recovery. Our recycling process recovers more than 90% of module materials for reuse, providing high quality secondary resources for new solar modules and other glass, rubber, and aluminum products. First Solar has a unique and long-standing leadership position in PV recycling, having established the industry s first global recycling program in 2005 and recycled over 300,000 metric tons of PV modules to date. 5 Table of Contents Our Series 6 TM ( Series 6 ) and Series 6 Plus TM ( Series 6 Plus ) modules are the world s first and only PV products to be included in the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool ( EPEAT ) Registry s Photovoltaic Modules and Inverters product category, and we expect to register our Series 7 modules in the EPEAT Registry in the near term. The EPEAT Registry enables the identification of credible sustainable electronic products from a broad range of manufacturers based on several factors, including the management of substances in the product, manufacturing energy, water use, product packaging, end-of-life recycling, corporate responsibility, and human rights. We are also currently working towards meeting the new ultra low-carbon solar criteria published by the Global Electronics Council in 2023. In 2023, we became the first of the world s largest solar manufacturers to have our science-based and net zero targets validated by the Science Based Targets Initiative. We have set science-based targets to reduce our absolute direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions by 34% by 2028 and achieve net-zero GHG emissions by 2050, each relative to 2020. We have also committed to the RE100 campaign, a collaborative, global initiative of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity, in which we plan to utilize renewable sources to power our manufacturing operations by 2028. As a result of these commitments and our engagement with key suppliers to minimize the carbon footprint of our module components, we expect to reduce our module carbon footprint by more than 65% by 2028, further enabling our customers to achieve their sustainability objectives. Financial Stability In addition to our sustainability commitments, we are also committed to creating long-term shareholder value through a decision-making framework that delivers a balance of growth, profitability, and liquidity. This framework has enabled us to fund our module manufacturing and capacity expansion initiatives primarily using cash flows generated by our operations and by maintaining appropriate debt levels based on cash flow expectations. Our financial stability provides strategic optionality as we evaluate how to invest in our business and generate returns for our shareholders. Our financial stability also enables us to offer meaningful warranties, which provide us with a competitive advantage relative to many of our peers in the solar industry. Furthermore, we expect our financial discipline and ability to manage operating costs to enhance our profitability as we continue to scale our business. Market Overview Solar energy is one of the fastest growing forms of renewable energy with numerous economic and environmental benefits that make it an attractive complement to and/or substitute for traditional forms of energy generation. In recent years, the cost of producing electricity from PV solar power systems has decreased to levels that are competitive with or below the wholesale price of electricity in many markets. This price decline has opened new possibilities to develop systems in many locations with limited or no financial incentives, thereby promoting the widespread adoption of solar energy. Other technological developments in the industry, such as the advancement of energy storage capabilities, have further enhanced the prospects of solar energy as an alternative to traditional forms of energy generation. In addition to these economic benefits, solar energy has substantial environmental benefits. For example, PV solar power systems generate no greenhouse gas or other emissions and use minimal amounts of water compared to traditional energy generation assets. As a result of these and other factors, worldwide solar markets continue to develop and expand. Recently enacted government support programs, such as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA ), have contributed and are expected to continue to contribute to this momentum by providing solar module manufacturers, project developers, and project owners with tax incentives to accelerate the ongoing transition to clean energy. Among other things, the IRA (i) reinstates the 30% investment tax credit for qualifying solar projects that meet certain wage and apprenticeship requirements, (ii) extends the production tax credit ( PTC ) to include energy generated from solar projects, (iii) provides incremental investment and production tax credits for solar projects that meet certain domestic content and location requirements, and (iv) offers tax credits for solar modules and solar module components manufactured in the United States and sold to third parties. In light of such regulatory 6 Table of Contents developments, we have recently commenced or completed certain manufacturing expansion activities in the United States and India and continue to evaluate opportunities for future expansion worldwide, as described below under Global Markets. For more information about certain risks associated with the IRA, see Item 1A. Risk Factors We expect certain financial benefits as a result of tax incentives provided by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. If these expected financial benefits vary significantly from our assumptions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Although module average selling prices in many global markets have generally declined for several years, near-term module pricing in the United States, our primary market, remains strong primarily due to the rising demand for domestically manufactured modules as a result of the IRA. In light of such market realities, we continue to focus on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module technology, our manufacturing process and distributed manufacturing presence, our R D capabilities, the sustainability advantage of our modules, and our financial stability. Global Markets Energy markets are, by their nature, localized, with different factors impacting electricity generation and demand in a particular region or for a particular application. Accordingly, our business is evolving worldwide and is shaped by the varying ways in which our modules can provide compelling and economically viable solutions to energy needs in various markets. We are currently focusing on markets, including those listed below, in which our CdTe solar modules provide certain advantages over conventional crystalline silicon solar modules, including high insolation climates in which our modules provide a superior temperature coefficient, humid environments in which our modules provide a superior spectral response, markets that favor the superior sustainability profile of our PV solar technology, markets that value responsible sourcing through transparent supply chain reporting and ethical business practices, and markets that promote renewable energy investments through supportive policy environments. To the extent our production capacity expands in future periods, we have the potential to extend our focus to additional geographic markets. United States. Multiple markets within the United States, which accounted for 96% of our 2023 net sales, exemplify favorable characteristics for a solar market, including (i) sizeable electricity demand, particularly around growing population centers and industrial areas; (ii) strong demand for renewable energy generation; (iii) abundant solar resources; and (iv) demand for domestically manufactured modules. In those areas and applications in which these factors are more pronounced, our PV solar modules compete favorably on an economic basis with traditional forms of energy generation. The market penetration of PV solar is also impacted by certain federal and state support programs described below under Support Programs. The United States currently has an installed solar generation capacity of approximately 160 GW, which is expected to double by 2027 due, in part, to the economic incentives provided by the IRA. In addition, the government has established a net-zero carbon emissions target by 2050. As a result of such market opportunities and renewable targets, we are in the process of expanding our U.S. manufacturing capacity by approximately 8 GW, including the construction of our fourth manufacturing facility in the United States, which is expected to commence operations in the second half of 2024; our fifth manufacturing facility in the United States, which is expected to commence operations in late 2025; and the expansion of our manufacturing footprint at our existing facilities in Ohio, which is expected to be completed in the first half of 2024. India. India continues to represent one of the