Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 45 Item 2. Properties 45 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 46 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 46 Item 6. [ R eserved ] 48 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 49 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 68 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B. Other Information 108 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevents Inspections 108 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 108 Item 11. Executive Compensation 108 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 108 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 108 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 108 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 109 Exhibit Index 110 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 112 Signatures 113 Table of Contents Summary of Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties when investing in our common stock. Some of the principle risks and uncertainties include the following: Our operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable. The COVID-19 pandemic, including its ongoing variants, could adversely affect our business in a material way, based on, for example, component shortages or negative impact on demand. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our billings, revenue, and free cash flow growth may slow or may not continue, and our operating margins may decline. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management, as well as our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly for our sales organization. We rely on third-party channel partners for substantially all of our revenue and a small number of distributors represents a large percentage of our revenue and accounts receivable. Reliance on a concentration of shipments at the end of the quarter could cause our billings and revenue to fall below expected levels. We rely significantly on revenue from FortiGuard security subscription and FortiCare technical support services, and revenue from these services may decline or fluctuate. We have incurred indebtedness and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. We generate a majority of revenue and cash flow from sales outside of the United States. We may not be successful in executing our strategy to increase our sales to large- and medium-sized end-customers. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We face intense competition in our market and we may not maintain or improve our competitive position. Insufficient inventory or components, including finished goods, chips and other components, and including component or inventory shortages related to the COVID-19 pandemic, manufacturer s capacity, shipping challenges, or other factors affecting the global supply chain, may result in lost sales opportunities or delayed billings and revenue and increased costs, and may harm our gross margins and our product price increases designed to help mitigate lower gross margins may not be acceptable to customers. We depend on third-party manufacturers to provide components for our products and build our products and are susceptible to manufacturing delays and cost increases. We are susceptible to supply chain constraints, supply shortages and disruptions, long lead times for components and finished goods and supply changes because some of the key components in our products come from limited sources of supply. We are susceptible to defects or vulnerabilities in our products or services, as well as reputational harm from the failure or misuse of our products or services. Our proprietary rights may be difficult to enforce and we may be subject to claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology. 1 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock may be volatile, which volatility may be exacerbated by share repurchases under our Share Repurchase Program (the Repurchase Program ). Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Global economic uncertainty and weakening product demand caused by political instability, changes in trade agreements and conflicts, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 2 Table of Contents Part I ITEM 1. Business Overview Fortinet is a global leader in cybersecurity and networking solutions for organizations, including enterprises, communication service providers, security service providers, government organizations and small businesses. The focus areas of our business consist of: Convergence / Security-Driven Networking Our Security-Driven Networking solutions enable the convergence of networking and security across all edges to provide next-generation firewall ( NGFW ), software-defined wide area network ( SD-WAN ), LAN Edge (Wi-Fi and switch) and secure access service edge ( SASE ). Traditional networking lacks awareness of content, applications, users, devices, location and more. A security-driven networking approach converges networking and security into a single, accelerated solution. A specially designed operating system and security processors work in concert to greatly improve network performance and security posture while decreasing footprint and power consumption. We derive a majority of product sales from our FortiGate network security appliances. FortiGate network security appliances include a broad set of built-in security and networking features and functionalities, including firewall, next-generation firewall, secure web gateway, secure sockets layer ( SSL ) inspection, software-defined wide area network ( SD-WAN ), intrusion prevention system ( IPS ), sandboxing, data leak prevention, virtual private network ( VPN ), switch and wireless controller and wide area network ( WAN ) edge. Our network security appliances are managed by our FortiOS network operating system, which provides the foundation for FortiGate security functions. We enhance the performance of our network security appliances from branch to data center by designing and implementing security processing units ( SPUs ) technology within our appliances, enabling us to add security and network functionality with minimal impact to network throughput performance. Along with our secure Wi-Fi access points and switches, Fortinet helps organizations secure their networks across campuses, branches and work from anywhere ( WFA ) deployments. Zero Trust Access Our Zero Trust Access solutions enable customers to know and control who and what is on their network, in addition to providing security for WFA. Zero Trust Access solutions include FortiNAC, FortiAuthenticator, FortiClient/EDR and FortiToken. Our network access control solutions provide visibility, control and automated event responses in order to secure internet of things ( IoT ) and operational technology ( OT ) devices. Adaptive Cloud Security We help customers connect securely to and across their individual, hybrid cloud, multi-cloud and virtualized data center environments by offering security through our virtual firewall and other software products and through integrated capabilities with major cloud platforms. Our public and private cloud security solutions, including virtual appliances and hosted solutions, extend the core capabilities of the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform in and across cloud environments, delivering security that follows their applications and data. Our Secure SD-WAN for multi-cloud solution automates deployment of an overlay network across different cloud networks and offers visibility, control and centralized management that integrates functionality across multiple cloud environments. Our cloud security portfolio also includes securing applications, including email and web. Fortinet cloud security offerings are available for deployment in major public and private cloud environments, including Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Oracle Cloud and VMWare Cloud. We also offer managed IPS and web application firewall ( WAF ) rules delivered by FortiGuard Labs as an overlay service to native security offerings offered by Amazon Web Services. AI-Driven Security Operations We develop and provide a range of products and services that enable the security operations center ( SOC ) teams to identify, investigate and remediate potential incidents in which cybercriminals bypass prevention-oriented controls. Given the breadth of the attack surface to monitor, as well as the volume and sophistication of cyber threats, artificial intelligence ( AI ) is a key part of these offerings, which include: FortiGuard and other security subscription services, endpoint security with endpoint detection and response ( EDR ), a range of breach-protection technologies plus our security information and event management ( SIEM ) and security orchestration, automation and response ( SOAR ), all of which can be applied across the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform. These solutions automatically deliver security intelligence and insights that help organizations to protect against and respond to threats through integration with Fortinet and third-party solutions. Security as a Service Our customers purchase our FortiGuard security subscription services as an add-on to products and solutions across the Fortinet Security Fabric to receive threat intelligence and protection updates. FortiGuard services are designed to provide protection for users and applications, including offerings for IPS, web, video and domain name system ( DNS ) filtering, audio/visual ( AV ) and cloud sandbox along with IoT and OT Security. The 3 Table of Contents FortiGuard security services are provided from our FortiGuard Labs and cloud-delivered to provide real-time unified protection across network endpoint and cloud. Support and Professional Services Fortinet offers technical support, FortiOS updates, and extended product warranty through our FortiCare support services. In addition to our technical support services, we offer a range of advanced services, including premium support, professional services and expedited warranty replacement. Our professional service offerings include resident engineers and professional service consultants for implementations or trainings. During our year ended December 31, 2021, we generated total revenue of $3.34 billion and net income of $606.8 million. See Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 and our consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. We were incorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 899 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086 and our telephone number at that location is (408) 235-7700. Consolidation of Technology and Architecture Cybersecurity has traditionally been deployed one solution at a time and not designed to work well with other deployed solutions while also increasing management complexity. A Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform approach consolidates point products into a platform, allowing for much tighter integration, increased automation and a more rapid, coordinated, and effective response to threats across the network. The Fortinet Security Fabric has an open architecture designed to integrate Fortinet solutions and third-party solutions. Our product offerings consist of our FortiGate network security products and our non-FortiGate products, which are offered in a broad range of form factors spanning physical appliances, virtual appliances, software and cloud-hosted services. This enables Fortinet to protect customers across all edges and deployment scenarios including users, devices, networks, cloud, and virtual data center. Our cloud- and hosted- products and services include sandboxing, endpoint detection and response ( EDR ), email security, web application and API security, and cloud networking security as well as Fortinet Security Fabric management and analytics. Additionally, we offer cloud-delivered and hosted-security services. Our FortiGuard security services are enabled by FortiGuard Labs, which provides threat research and artificial intelligence capabilities from a cloud network to deliver protection through FortiGate appliance and virtual machine as well as Fortinet Security Fabric products that are registered by the end-customer. All these are combined to form the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform, which is an approach to security that consolidates discrete security solutions together into an integrated offering. This integrated approach to security extends across both Fortinet developed solutions and a broad ecosystem of technology partner solutions and technologies. SPU Our proprietary SPUs are application-specific integrated circuits ( ASICs ) that include (i) the content processor ( SPU CP ), (ii) the network processor ( SPU NP ) and (iii) the system-on-a-chip ( SPU SoC ). Our SPUs are embedded in our physical FortiGate appliances and are designed to enhance the security processing capabilities of our operating system by accelerating computationally intensive tasks such as firewall policy enforcement, SD-WAN, network address translation, IPS, threat detection and encryption while also converging security capabilities with networking functionality. We also provide virtualized security processing units ( vSPUs ) across our FortiGate virtual appliances. The use of SPUs allows our appliances to consolidate security functionality and converge security with a minimal impact to network throughput performance, which we believe delivers a lower total cost of ownership ( TCO ) to our customers. As the security needs and technologies of our end-customers increase, we believe our TCO-driven SPU approach give our products a competitive advantage against other architectural approaches. Entry-level FortiGate products often use the SPU SoC to provide the necessary acceleration at this level. Mid-range FortiGate products use a central processing unit ( CPU ) and include the SPU NP and SPU CP hardware acceleration. The high-end FortiGate products use multiple CPUs, SPU CPs and SPU NPs. FortiOS FortiOS, its associated security and networking functions and products that run or are integrated with FortiOS are combined to form the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform. This approach to security ties discrete security solutions together into an integrated offering. 4 Table of Contents Our proprietary FortiOS operating system provides the foundation for the operation of FortiGate network security appliances, whether physical, virtual, private- or public-cloud based. We make regular enhancements and other updates to FortiOS available through our FortiCare support services. The convergence of security and networking capabilities provided by the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform are powered and controlled through FortiOS. FortiOS provides (i) multiple layers of security, including a hardened kernel layer providing protection for the FortiGate system, (ii) a network security layer, providing security for end-customers network infrastructures and (iii) application content protection, providing security for end-customers workstations and applications. FortiOS directs the operations of processors and SPUs and provides system management functions such as command line, graphical user interfaces, multiple network and security topology views. FortiOS also enables advanced, integrated routing and switching, allowing end-customers to deploy FortiGate devices within a wide variety of networks, as well as providing a direct replacement solution option for legacy switching and routing equipment. FortiOS implements a suite of commonly used standards-based routing protocols as well as network address translation technologies, allowing the FortiGate appliance to integrate and operate in a wide variety of network environments. Additional features include virtual domain capabilities, which can provide support for multiple customers on a single device or FortiOS instance in support of service provider and managed security service provider ( MSSP ) deployments. FortiOS also provides capabilities for the logging of traffic for forensic analysis purposes. FortiOS is designed to help control network traffic in order to optimize performance by including functionality such as packet classification, queue disciplines, policy enforcement, congestion management, WAN optimization and caching. Products Our core product offerings consist of our FortiGate firewall product family and our non-FortiGate products which may be purchased to integrate and expand security architectures. Our non-FortiGate products include the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform, email security, cloud security, endpoint protection and other products. Our FortiGate hardware and software licenses are sold with a set of FortiGate broad security services. These security services are enabled by FortiGuard Labs, which provides threat research and artificial intelligence capabilities from a global cloud network to deliver protection services. FortiGate FortiGate converges a broad set of security and networking functions, including firewall, intrusion prevention, anti-malware, VPN, application control, web filtering, anti-spam and WAN acceleration. FortiGate is available as a hardware appliance or as a virtual appliance. All FortiGate appliances run on FortiOS. FortiGate platforms can be centrally managed through both embedded web-based and command line interfaces, as well as through FortiManager, which provides a central management architecture for FortiGate appliances and the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform. With over 35 models in the FortiGate product line, FortiGate is designed to address security requirements for small- to medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government organizations worldwide. Most FortiGate hardware appliances include one of our SPUs to accelerate content and network security features implemented within FortiOS. The significant differences between each model are the performance and scalability targets each model is designed to meet, while the security features and associated services offered are common throughout all models. The FortiGate-20 through -90 series models are designed for perimeter protection for small- to medium-sized businesses and enterprises with distributed offices. The FortiGate-100 through -900 series models are designed for perimeter deployment in medium-sized to large enterprise networks. The FortiGate-1000 through -7000 series models deliver high performance and scalable network security functionality for perimeter, data center and hyper scale data centers, and core deployment in large enterprises. In addition to networking security features, all FortiGate models and form factors also deliver secure SD-WAN capabilities. Fortinet also offers FortiGate Rugged models for OT applications where ruggedized appliances are needed. We also incorporate additional technologies within FortiGate appliances that differentiate our solutions, including data leak protection, traffic optimization, SSL inspection, threat vulnerability management and wireless controller technology. In addition to these in-built features, we offer a full range of wireless access points and controllers, complementing FortiGate appliances with the flexibility of wireless local area network access. Fortinet Security Fabric Cybersecurity Mesh Platform and Non-FortiGate Products As part of the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform, we offer products that provide network security, endpoint security, cloud security, web-based application security, identity and access management, sandbox protection and 5 Table of Contents email security. The integration of devices using open standards, common operating systems, and unified management platforms enables the sharing and correlation of real-time threat intelligence. The following Fortinet products can operate as part of the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform: FortiAnalyzer Our FortiAnalyzer family of products provides centralized network logging, analyzing and reporting solutions that securely aggregate content and log data from our FortiGate devices, other Fortinet products and third-party devices to enable network logging, analysis and reporting. FortiAP Our FortiAP product family provides secure wireless networking solutions. FortiAPs allow a variety of management options including from the cloud and directly from our FortiGate firewall product. FortiAPs create a scalable and secure access layer for connecting wireless devices such as computers, laptops, cell phones and tablets, as well as IoT devices. FortiClient Our FortiClient provides advanced endpoint protection with pattern-based anti-malware, behavior-based exploit protection, web-filtering and an application firewall. FortiClient integrates with FortiSandbox to detect zero-day threats and custom malware. FortiClient also provides secure remote access with built-in VPN, single-sign-on and two-factor authentication for added security. FortiEDR/XDR Our FortiEDR/XDR is an endpoint protection solution that provides both machine-learning anti-malware protection and remediation. FortiEDR/XDR supports broad OS coverage workstations, servers, and virtual machines, including legacy operating and embedded systems. FortiGate-VM FortiGate-VM extends the Fortinet Security Fabric through the cloud on-ramp into the cloud, enabling customers to achieve security-driven networking within the cloud and between clouds and hybrid clouds. FortiGate-VM is powered by Fortinet vSPUs to deliver accelerated security and performance with minimal impact to performance. Our cloud networking solution enables better, more secure application experiences for users and branch offices by providing for encrypted data transports, granular segmentation and application-layer protection against advanced threats, and seamless overlay network with uniform policies across multi-clouds. FortiGate-VM is available for all major cloud providers, hypervisors and software-defined network ( SDN ) platforms. FortiMail Our FortiMail product family provides secure email gateway solutions. FortiMail utilizes the technologies and security services from FortiGuard Labs to deliver protection against threats that use email as an attack vector. FortiMail also integrates data protection capabilities to avoid data loss. FortiManager Our FortiManager family of products provides a central and scalable management solution for our FortiGate products, including software updates, configuration, policy settings and security updates. FortiManager facilitates the coordination of policy-based provisioning, device configuration and operating system revision management, as well as network security monitoring and device control. FortiSandbox Our FortiSandbox technology delivers proactive detection and mitigation with the ability to generate a directly actionable protection capability. Available in both hardware and cloud-based form, the FortiSandbox subjects suspicious code to a set of multi-layer protection techniques, culminating in execution within an operating system, allowing real-time behavioral analysis to be performed in a secure environment. When malicious code is identified, a signature can be generated locally for distribution across the Fortinet Security Fabric cybersecurity mesh platform. FortiSwitch Our FortiSwitch product family provides secure switching solutions that can be deployed in traditional network switching designs with Layer 2 or Layer 3 access control features. FortiSwitch creates a scalable and secure access layer for customers to connect their end devices, such as computers and laptops, as well as to expand the field of IoT devices. FortiToken Our FortiToken allows organizations to implement two-factor authentication to better safeguard systems, assets and data. With two-factor authentication, a password is used along with a security token and authentication server to provide seamless yet highly secured access between users and applications. Authorized employees can access company resources safely using a variety of devices, ranging from laptops to mobile phones. 6 Table of Contents FortiWeb Our FortiWeb product family provides web application firewall solutions, including internet protocol ( IP ) reputation and anti-botnet security, distributed denial-of-service protection, protocol validation, application attack signatures and deep learning AI to protect applications against a wide range of threats. The products listed above are available in multiple form factors, such as hardware, virtual machine, cloud or software-as-a-service ( SaaS ), except for FortiSwitch, FortiAP and FortiExtender, which are available as hardware appliances only and FortiGate-VM and FortiEDR/XDR which are available as virtual solutions only. In the third quarter of 2021, we closed an acquisition of 75% of equity interests in Alaxala Networks Corporation ( Alaxala ), a privately held network hardware equipment company in Japan, to help address the increasing need for secure switches integrated with FortiGate firewalls and Security Fabric functionality, and, over time, to innovate and rebrand certain of Alaxala s switches to offer a broader suite of secure switches globally. In the first quarter of 2021, we acquired ShieldX Networks Inc. ( ShieldX ), a provider of a security platform focusing on protecting multi-cloud data centers from the risk of lateral movement that can lead to attacks such as ransomware, data loss and service disruption. Services FortiGuard Security Subscription Services Security requirements are dynamic due to the constantly changing nature of threats. Our FortiGuard security subscription services are designed to deliver threat detection and prevention capabilities to end-customers worldwide as threats evolve. Our FortiGuard Labs global threat research team identifies emerging threats, collects threat samples, and replicates, reviews, characterizes and collates attack data through the use of AI, automation and original research. Based on this research, we develop updates for virus signatures, attack definitions, scanning engines and other security solution components to distribute to end-customers. FortiGuard functionality varies depending on the FortiGate and non-FortiGate products, and will typically include one or more of the following functions: application control, antivirus, intrusion prevention, web filtering, anti-spam, VPN functions, email image analysis, vulnerability management, database functions, web functions, advanced threat protection, sandboxing and domain and IP reputation services. End-customers purchase FortiGuard security subscription services in advance, typically with terms of one to five years. We provide FortiGuard security subscription services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. FortiCare Technical Support Services Our FortiCare support services portfolio includes technical support, FortiOS updates and extended product warranty. For our standard technical support, our channel partners may provide first-level support to the end-customer. We also provide first-level support to our end-customers, as well as second- and third-level support as appropriate. We also provide knowledge management tools and customer self-help portals to help augment our support capabilities in an efficient and scalable manner. We deliver technical support to partners and end-customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, through regional technical support centers. In addition to our technical support services, we offer a range of advanced services, including premium support, professional services and expedited warranty replacement. Service Bundles We also sell FortiGuard and FortiCare services as bundles, consolidating security services into packages that are appropriate for different use cases or end-customers. Advanced Threat Protection Our Advanced Threat Protection bundle includes antivirus, data sanitation sandbox, intrusion prevention, virus outbreak protection, mobile security, application control, IP reputation and anti-botnet security, along with FortiCare support services. Unified Threat Protection Our Unified Threat Protection bundle includes the Advanced Threat Protection security services noted above, as well as intrusion prevention, virus outbreak protection, web filtering and FortiCare support services. Enterprise Protection Our Enterprise Protection bundle includes the Unified Threat Protection services noted above, as well as industrial control systems, security rating, along with enhanced FortiCare support services. 7 Table of Contents Small Medium Busin