Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 27 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 Information About our Executive Officers 29 PART II Item 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. [Reserved] 32 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures A bout Market Risk 54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 102 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 102 Item 9B. Other Information 104 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 104 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 104 Item 11. Executive Compensation 104 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 105 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees a nd Services 105 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 105 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 1 10 Signatures 111 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Dollars in millions, unless otherwise noted) BUSINESS OVERVIEW General Dynamics is a global aerospace and defense company that specializes in high-end design, engineering and manufacturing to deliver state-of-the-art solutions to our customers. We offer a broad portfolio of products and services in business aviation; ship construction and repair; land combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; and technology products and services. Our leadership positions in attractive business aviation and defense markets enable us to deliver superior and enduring shareholder returns. Our company consists of 10 business units, which are organized into four operating segments: Aerospace, Marine Systems, Combat Systems and Technologies. We refer to the latter three collectively as our defense segments. To optimize market focus, customer intimacy, agility and operating expertise, each business unit is responsible for the development and execution of its strategy and operating results. This structure allows for a lean corporate function, which sets the overall strategy and governance for the company and is responsible for allocating and deploying capital. Our business units seek to deliver superior operating results by building industry-leading franchises. To achieve this goal, we invest in advanced technologies, pursue a culture of continuous improvement, and strive to be the low-cost, high-quality provider in each of our markets. The result is long-term value creation measured by strong earnings and cash flow and an attractive return on capital. Over the past decade, we have invested in our business to create, renew or expand our portfolio of products and services across our businesses. This includes product development investments in Aerospace to bring to market an all-new lineup of business jet aircraft, capital investments in Marine Systems to support significant growth in U.S. Navy ship and submarine construction plans over the next two decades, development of next-generation platforms and technologies to meet customers emerging requirements in Combat Systems, and strategic acquisitions to achieve critical mass and build out a complete spectrum of solutions for our Technologies customers. We expect to realize an attractive return from these investments in each of our segments and we will continue to evaluate our capital deployment opportunities to deliver long-term growth and enduring value to our shareholders. Following is additional information on each of our operating segments. For a supplemental discussion of segment performance and backlog, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7. AEROSPACE Our Aerospace segment is recognized as a leading producer of business jets and the standard bearer in new technology aircraft, aircraft repair, support and completion services. The segment consists of our Gulfstream and Jet Aviation business units. We have earned our reputation through: superior aircraft design, quality, performance, safety and reliability; technologically advanced flight deck and cabin systems; and industry-leading customer support. 3 We believe the key to long-term value creation in the business jet industry is steady investment in new aircraft models and technologies and in customer service capabilities. Since acquiring Gulfstream more than 20 years ago, we have made significant investments in research and development (R D), state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, and maintenance and support through a combination of product development efforts, capital expansion and Jet Aviation s global support network. We are also the industry leader in the use of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) and energy efficient engines. We are committed to continual investment in R D to create new aircraft that consistently broaden customer offerings while raising the bar for safety and performance. The result is the unprecedented development of an all-new lineup of the most technologically advanced business jet aircraft in the world. The Gulfstream family of aircraft offer industry-leading cabin, cockpit and safety technologies and the longest ranges at the fastest speeds in their respective classes. The following represents Gulfstream s current product line, along with the maximum range, maximum speed, cabin length (excluding baggage), and total number of city-pair speed records held for each aircraft: The most recent additions to the in-service Gulfstream fleet are two large-cabin aircraft, the G500 and G600, which entered service in 2018 and 2019, respectively. These clean-sheet (i.e., all-new) aircraft replace the G450 and G550 models, whose combined family has an installed base of more than 1,650 aircraft around the world. Our investment included development of a new wing, new avionics, 4 new fuselage and new ergonomically designed larger interiors, as well as systems and technologies to improve the manufacturing process and quality of the platform. As a result, the G500 and G600 are faster, more fuel efficient, and have greater cabin volume, reduced emissions, more range and improved flight controls compared with the aircraft they are replacing. These aircraft hold more than 90 city-pair speed records, and at year-end 2023, cumulative deliveries for the aircraft totaled over 250. The next model to join the Gulfstream lineup is the ultra-long-range, ultra-large-cabin G700. It combines our most spacious cabin with our advanced Symmetry Flight Deck, the industry s most technologically advanced flight deck, which we launched on our G500 and G600 aircraft, and the superior high-speed performance of all-new engines to create best-in-class capabilities. We expect the G700 to enter service following certification from the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in early 2024. In 2021, we introduced two new aircraft, the ultra-long-range, ultra-large-cabin G800 and large-cabin G400, completing a nearly two-decade effort to develop an all-new family of Gulfstream aircraft. Both aircraft combine our industry-leading high-speed range and efficiency, safety enhancements, and our advanced Symmetry Flight Deck. The G800 is Gulfstream s longest-range aircraft, with an 8,000 nautical mile range at Mach 0.85. The G400 is a clean-sheet design developed in concert with the G500 and G600, thus expanding the commonality across the Gulfstream family of aircraft. The G400 will join a market segment in which Gulfstream has not participated for several decades. Both aircraft will enter service following FAA certification. The ultra-long-range, ultra-large-cabin G650 and G650ER continue to generate significant customer interest, with approximately 550 aircraft of this family currently operating in 55 countries. Since the first G650 entered service in 2012, its capabilities and reliability have led to significant sales and expansion of our installed base around the globe. Gulfstream s current product line holds more than 355 city-pair speed records, more than any other business jet manufacturer, led by the G650ER, which holds the National Aeronautic Association s polar and westbound around-the-world speed records. Our disciplined and consistent approach to new product development has allowed us to introduce repeatedly first-to-market capabilities that set industry standards for safety, performance, quality, speed and comfort. Product enhancement and development efforts include initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, flight-control and vision systems, acoustics, and cabin technologies. Gulfstream designs, develops and manufactures aircraft in Savannah, Georgia, including all large-cabin models. The mid-cabin G280 is assembled by a non-U.S. partner. All models are outfitted in Gulfstream s U.S. facilities. As Gulfstream s aircraft portfolio and customer base have grown and become increasingly global in reach over the years, we have invested in our facilities and operations around the world. At our Savannah campus, we added new purpose-built manufacturing facilities, increased aircraft service capacity, opened a customer-support distribution center, and expanded our R D capabilities. We offer comprehensive support for the more than 3,000 Gulfstream aircraft in service around the world and operate an extensive network of factory-owned service centers. We continue to invest in these maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facilities and inventory to accommodate fleet growth. We also operate a 24/7 year-round customer support center and offer on-call Gulfstream aircraft technicians ready to deploy around the world for customer service requirements under our Field and Airborne Support Team (FAST) rapid-response unit. 5 In addition to expanding the reach of Gulfstream s aircraft maintenance network outside the United States, Jet Aviation provides a comprehensive suite of innovative aircraft services for aircraft owners and operators around the world. With approximately 50 locations throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region, our offerings include maintenance, completion, aircraft management, charter, staffing and fixed-base operator (FBO) services. Jet Aviation manages approximately 300 business aircraft globally on behalf of individuals and corporate owners. We operate a leading global FBO network of approximately 30 facilities on four continents and support all aircraft types with a full range of maintenance services, including 24/7 global aircraft-on-ground support. We also operate one of the world s largest custom completion and refurbishment centers for both narrow- and wide-body aircraft and perform modifications, upgrades and lifecycle sustainment support for various government fleets. We continue to grow our global footprint through acquisitions, expansions and significant renovations in strategic business aviation markets most frequented by these customers. In 2023, we expanded hangar capacity in Scottsdale, Arizona, and in Bozeman, Montana, bringing total U.S. hangar capacity to approximately one million square feet and providing additional capacity for large-cabin aircraft. The following map displays the broad reach of our combined Gulfstream and Jet Aviation services network, including authorized service centers: The Aerospace segment places a priority on sustainability throughout its manufacturing and service operations, producing aircraft that maximize fuel efficiency while offering customers options to reduce or eliminate their carbon footprints. Gulfstream and Jet Aviation have been at the forefront of the industry by adopting and expanding the availability of SAF, which achieves as much as an 80% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions per gallon over its lifecycle compared to petroleum-based jet fuel. Gulfstream s service and test aircraft have flown more than two million nautical miles on SAF since 2016, and in 2019 Gulfstream became the first business jet manufacturer to make SAF available to customers. In November 2023, Gulfstream conducted the world s first transatlantic flight using 100% SAF. Gulfstream also offers operators the ability to achieve carbon-neutral travel by facilitating the 6 purchase of carbon-offset credits. In addition to actively expanding the availability of SAF at its FBO locations, Jet Aviation allows customers to purchase SAF at locations where it is not available through a book-and-claim system. Since 2019, Jet Aviation has uploaded more than 10 million gallons of blended SAF to its customers. Revenue for the Aerospace segment was 20% of our consolidated revenue in 2023, 22% in 2022 and 21% in 2021. Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2023 2022 2021 Aircraft manufacturing $ 5,710 $ 5,876 $ 5,864 Aircraft services 2,911 2,691 2,271 Total Aerospace $ 8,621 $ 8,567 $ 8,135 MARINE SYSTEMS Our Marine Systems segment is the leading designer and builder of nuclear-powered submarines and a leader in surface combatant and auxiliary ship design and construction for the U.S. Navy. We also provide maintenance, modernization and lifecycle support services for Navy ships and maintain the most sophisticated marine engineering expertise in the world to support future capabilities. Our ability to design, build and maintain our nation s most technologically sophisticated warships is a critical element of the U.S. defense industrial base. In addition to Navy ships, we have designed and built ocean-going Jones Act ships for commercial customers. Marine Systems consists of three business units Electric Boat, Bath Iron Works and NASSCO. In support of our Navy customer s significant increase in demand for submarines and surface ships, we are making substantial investments to expand our facilities, grow and train our workforce, and expand our supply chain. The resulting increase in capacity and capabilities will support the unprecedented growth expected in our shipbuilding business, particularly submarines, over the next two decades. Electric Boat is the prime contractor and lead shipyard on all Navy nuclear-powered submarine programs. The business is responsible for all aspects of design and engineering and leads the construction of both Columbia-class ballistic-missile submarines and Virginia-class attack submarines. The Columbia-class ballistic-missile submarine is a 12-boat program that the Navy considers its top acquisition priority. Accordingly, the program has received the highest possible rating from the government s Defense Priorities and Allocations System. These submarines will provide strategic deterrent capabilities for decades, with the first boat scheduled for delivery in 2027 to begin replacement of the current Ohio-class ballistic-missile submarine fleet as it reaches the end of its service life. Construction is scheduled to continue for two decades, and the value of the Navy s program of record is in excess of $115 billion. The Navy procures Virginia-class submarines in multi-boat blocks at a two-per-year rate. Along with an industry partner, we are currently working on Blocks IV and V in the program, with 16 Virginia-class submarines in our backlog scheduled for delivery through 2032. Ten of the boats in Block V will include the Virginia Payload Module, an 84-foot Electric Boat-designed-and-built hull section that adds four additional payload tubes, more than tripling the strike capacity of these submarines and providing unique capabilities to support special missions. We have invested significant capital over the past several years in expanded and modernized facilities at Electric Boat to support the growth in submarine construction, and will work with our Navy 7 customer on any additional construction needs that could develop in light of increased submarine demand. Equal to the commitment of capital is our commitment to developing our Electric Boat workforce. While the steepest portion of our personnel ramp is behind us, we still expect the Electric Boat workforce to continue to grow to enable sustained production of one Columbia-class submarine plus two Virginia-class submarines per year and have the capacity to support additional AUKUS-related demand. Along with strong contributions from the states of Connecticut and Rhode Island, we continue to invest in the training and tools necessary for our employees to deliver these next-generation submarines to the Navy on time and on budget. We are also working with our growing network of approximately 3,000 suppliers mostly small businesses to support concurrent production of the two submarine programs. Bath Iron Works builds the Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) guided-missile destroyer and manages modernization and lifecycle support for all Navy destroyers. In 2023, we were awarded a contract from the Navy for construction of three Flight III DDG-51 destroyers. We have a total of 12 ships in backlog scheduled for delivery through 2032. NASSCO specializes in Navy auxiliary and support ships and is currently building the Expeditionary Sea Base (ESB), which serves as an afloat forward-staging base for U.S. Marines and special operations forces, and the John Lewis-class (T-AO-205) fleet replenishment oiler. Work on the two ESBs in backlog will continue into 2026, while the seven T-AO-205 ships currently in backlog have deliveries planned into 2028. NASSCO has also designed and built crude oil and product tankers and container and cargo ships for commercial customers, satisfying Jones Act requirements that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be built in U.S. shipyards. 8 On December 31, 2023, backlog for our major ship construction programs and the scheduled final delivery date of ships currently in backlog were as follows: In addition to design and construction activities, our Marine Systems segment provides comprehensive post-delivery services to modernize and extend the service life of these and other Navy ships. NASSCO conducts full-service maintenance and surface-ship repair operations in Navy fleet concentration areas in San Diego, California; Norfolk, Virginia; Bremerton, Washington; and Mayport, Florida. Electric Boat provides submarine maintenance and modernization services in a variety of U.S. locations, and Bath Iron Works provides lifecycle support services for Navy surface ships in both U.S. and overseas ports. In support of allied navies, we offer program management, planning, engineering and design support for submarine construction programs. Revenue for the Marine Systems segment was 29% of our consolidated revenue in 2023, 28% in 2022 and 27% in 2021. Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2023 2022 2021 Nuclear-powered submarines $ 8,631 $ 7,310 $ 7,117 Surface ships 2,698 2,561 2,328 Repair and other services 1,132 1,169 1,081 Total Marine Systems $ 12,461 $ 11,040 $ 10,526 9 COMBAT SYSTEMS Our Combat Systems segment is a premier manufacturer and integrator of land combat solutions worldwide, including wheeled and tracked combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions. The segment consists of three business units Land Systems, European Land Systems (ELS), and Ordnance and Tactical Systems (OTS). Combat Systems creates long-term value through operational excellence high-quality, on-schedule and on-budget performance combined with investments in innovative technologies that modernize existing platforms and develop next-generation capabilities to meet our customers rapidly evolving requirements. We maintain our market-leading position by focusing on innovation, affordability and speed to market to deliver increased survivability, performance and lethality on the battlefield. Our large installed base of wheeled and tracked vehicles around the world and expertise gained from research, engineering and production programs position us well for modernization programs, support and sustainment services, and future development programs. Land Systems is the sole-source producer of two foundational products central to the U.S. Army s warfighting capabilities the Abrams main battle tank and Stryker wheeled combat vehicle. Both of these platforms are core components of the multi-domain, joint war fight envisioned on the battlefield of the future. We are maximizing the effectiveness and lethality of the Army s M1A2 Abrams tank fleet with next-generation upgrades through continued delivery of the system enhancement package version 3 (SEPv3) configuration. This package provides technological advancements in communications, power generation, fuel efficiency, optics and armor. We also continue to upgrade Abrams tanks for several non-U.S. partners. In 2023, the Army announced that it will develop the new M1E3 Abrams main battle tank, which will make capability improvements needed to fight and win against future threats. The E identifier reflects that the program is an engineering change that is more significant than a minor modification. The development of the M1E3 Abrams will include the latest systems architecture standards, allowing for quicker technology upgrades and requiring fewer resources, and will enhance efficacy through reduced sustainment footprint and increased tactical mobility. The Stryker is an eight-wheeled, medium-weight combat vehicle that combines lethality, mobility and survivability. Land Systems continues to develop upgrades and enhancements to this highly versatile and combat-proven platform to address the Army s evolving operational needs. We are currently fielding an enhanced Stryker platform that includes the double-V-hull for survivability, increased power, improved cross-country mobility and an advanced digital, in-vehicle network. We have completed fielding these vehicles for the second of nine Army brigades, as well as for the Army s Ranger Regiment. In addition, coordination continues with the Army for next-generation upgrades to the platform and new uses for the vehicle. Leveraging our rapid prototyping expertise and customer intimacy, we continue to expand the mission capabilities of this platform, including an air defense mission package (M-SHORAD), a state-of-the-art electronic warfare suite, a high-energy laser, a high-power microwave, and several command post options. In 2022, we were awarded a low-rate initial production (LRIP) contract for the Army s M10 Booker combat vehicle (formerly known as Mobile Protected Firepower) the first ground combat vehicle to transition from prototype to production in 40 years. The M10 Booker vehicle will enhance the relevance of Infantry Brigade Combat Teams in large-scale combat operations against near-peer threats. The 10 highly lethal, survivable and mobile direct-fire combat vehicle melds recently developed and battle-tested designs to dominate ground threats on the multi-domain battlefield. Combat Systems provides similar capabilities for U.S. allies and partners through export opportunities and through our operations in several countries around the world, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, Switzerland, Austria, Germany and Romania. As a result, we have a market-leading position in light armored vehicles (LAVs) with more than 12,000 of the high-mobility, versatile Pandur, Piranha and other LAVs in service worldwide. Land Systems is producing 399 new LAVs for the Canadian army in eight variants, including ambulances, command posts, maintenance and recovery vehicles, and troop-carrying vehicles, as well as upgrading its existing fleet. Land Systems is also producing the British Army s Ajax armored fighting vehicle, a next-generation, medium-weight tracked combat vehicle. With six variants, including a reconnaissance vehicle, an armored personnel carrier and various support platforms, the Ajax family of vehicles offers advanced electronic architecture and proven technology for a balance of survivability, lethality and mobility, along with high reliability for a vehicle in its weight class. ELS is producing and upgrading Piranha vehicles, a premier 8x8 armored combat vehicle, around the world. We are currently providing Piranha 5 vehicles for several countries, including Denmark, Romania and Spain. Additionally, we provide mobile bridge systems with payloads ranging from 100 kilograms to 100 tons to customers worldwide. We offer the ASCOD, a highly versatile tracked combat vehicle with multiple versions, including the Spanish Pizarro and the Austrian Ulan. ELS also offers Duro and Eagle tactical vehicles in a range of options and weight classes and is currently producing these vehicles for Luxembourg, Switzerland and Germany, while providing a full range of product support for the German armed forces. We are expanding our platform capabilities through continued investment in robotic and autonomous vehicle technology. We have developed the Multi-Utility Tactical Transport (MUTT), a semi-autonomous robotic platform that can be equipped with an array of modular mission payloads for use alongside dismounted soldiers. This platform was selected as the Army s first robotic vehicle program of record and is officially designated as the Small Multipurpose Equipment Transport (S-MET). Additionally, we have developed the Tracked Robot 10-ton (TRX) prototype, a medium-sized, semi-autonomous combat vehicle that enables critical battlefield roles, such as direct and indirect fire, autonomous resupply, reconnaissance and other battlefield missions. 11 On December 31, 2023, the installed base for our major vehicle programs, as well as the quantity and scheduled final delivery date of vehicles and vehicle upgrades in backlog were as follows: Complementing these military-vehicle offerings, OTS designs, develops and produces a comprehensive array of sophisticated weapon systems for ground forces. OTS produces next-generation weapon and defense systems for shipboard, aircraft and ground applications, including high-speed Gatling guns for all U.S. fighter aircraft (such as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter) and combat vehicle active protection systems. OTS s munitions portfolio covers the full breadth of naval, air and ground forces applications across all calibers and weapon platforms for the U.S. government and its non-U.S. partners. Globally, we maintain a market-leading position in the supply of Hydra-70 rockets, bomb bodies, large-caliber tank ammunition, medium-caliber ammunition, military propellants, mortar and a 155mm artillery suite of ammunition. In 2023, OTS received awards to expand its existing metal parts production capacity from 18,000 to 86,000 rounds per month by 2025 and expand existing propellant capacity from 4 million to 16 million pounds per year by 2028 while establishing capacity for 155mm load, assemble, and pack (LAP) to 50,000 rounds per month by 2025. The OTS facilities and production expansion supports the U.S. Army s effort to accelerate artillery production. OTS is the systems integrator for the next generation of artillery solutions in support of the Army s Indirect Fire Modernization objectives. Additionally, OTS maintains a leading position providing 12 missile subsystems in support of U.S. tactical and strategic missiles, provisioning both legacy and next-generation missiles with critical aerostructures, control actuators, high-performance warheads, and cutting-edge hypersonic rocket cases. Revenue for the Combat Systems segment was 20% of our consolidated revenue in 2023, 18% in 2022 and 19% in 2021. Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2023 2022 2021 Military vehicles $ 5,036 $ 4,581 $ 4,699 Weapons systems, armament and munitions 2,442 2,024 2,006 Engineering and other services 790 703 646 Total Combat Systems $ 8,268 $ 7,308 $ 7,351 TECHNOLOGIES Our Technologies segment provides a full spectrum of services, technologies and products to an expanding market that increasingly seeks solutions combining leading-edge electronic hardware with specialized software. The segment is organized into two business units Information Technology (GDIT) and Mission Systems. Together they serve a wide range of military, intelligence, federal civilian and state customers with a diverse portfolio that includes: consulting, technology solutions and mission-support services; mobile communication, computers, command-and-control and cyber (C5) mission systems; and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) solutions. Over the past decade, the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community and federal civilian agencies have increasingly prioritized technology solutions as a critical element of their missions, transforming technology resources from back-office support functions to a strategic priority for this customer community. The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, expanded cyberthreats and demand for advanced warfighter connectivity have accelerated these trends, adding urgency to required technology investments. The result is a significant increase in federal information technology (IT) modernization and technology spending in recent years and a shift to large-scale, end-to-end, highly engineered solutions that require a broad array of integrated technology services and hardware offerings to meet these customer demands. GDIT and Mission Systems share the same defense, intelligence and federal civilian customer base and increasingly go to market together to meet the ever-changing information-systems and mission-support needs of these customers. In addition, with the convergence of digital technologies, the two businesses benefit from significant complementary offerings and solution sets. The segment makes strategic investments in new and emerg