Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 Information A bout our Executive Officers 26 PART II Item 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures A bout Market Risk 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 97 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 97 Item 9B. Other Information 100 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions T hat Prevent Inspections 100 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 100 Item 11. Executive Compensation 100 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 101 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees a nd Services 101 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 101 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 106 Signatures 107 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts or unless otherwise noted) BUSINESS OVERVIEW General Dynamics is a global aerospace and defense company that specializes in high-end design, engineering and manufacturing to deliver state-of-the-art solutions to our customers. We offer a broad portfolio of products and services in business aviation; ship construction and repair; land combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; and technology products and services. Our leadership positions in attractive business aviation and defense markets enable us to deliver superior and enduring shareholder returns. Our company consists of 10 business units, which are organized into four operating segments: Aerospace, Marine Systems, Combat Systems and Technologies. We refer to the latter three collectively as our defense segments. To optimize its market focus, customer intimacy, agility and operating expertise, each business unit is responsible for the development and execution of its strategy and operating results. This structure allows for a lean corporate function, which sets the overall strategy and governance for the company and is responsible for allocating and deploying capital. Our business units seek to deliver superior operating results by endeavoring to build industry-leading franchises. To achieve this goal, we invest in advanced technologies, pursue a culture of continuous improvement, and strive to be the low-cost, high-quality provider in each of our markets. The result is long-term value creation measured by strong earnings and cash flow and an attractive return on capital. Over the past nine years, we have invested approximately $22 billion to create, renew or expand our portfolio of products and services across our businesses to drive long-term growth and shareholder value creation. This includes product development investments in Aerospace to bring to market an all-new lineup of business jet aircraft, capital investments in Marine Systems to support significant growth in U.S. Navy ship and submarine construction plans over the next two decades, development of next-generation platforms and technologies to meet customers emerging requirements in Combat Systems, and strategic acquisitions to achieve critical mass and build out a complete spectrum of solutions for our Technologies customers. Following is additional information on each of our operating segments. For a supplemental discussion of segment performance and backlog, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7. AEROSPACE Our Aerospace segment is recognized as a leading producer of business jets and the standard bearer in aircraft repair, support and completion services. The segment consists of our Gulfstream and Jet Aviation business units. We have earned our reputation through: superior aircraft design, quality, performance, safety and reliability; technologically advanced flight deck and cabin systems; and industry-leading customer support. 3 We believe the key to long-term value creation in the business jet industry is steady investment in new aircraft models and technologies and in customer service capabilities. As a result, since we acquired Gulfstream over 20 years ago, we have made significant investments in research and development (R D), state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities, and maintenance and support through a combination of product development efforts, capital expansion and the acquisition of Jet Aviation s global support network. We are committed to continual investment in R D to create new aircraft that consistently broaden customer offerings while raising the bar for safety and performance. The result is the unprecedented development of an all-new lineup of the most technologically advanced business jet aircraft in the world. The Gulfstream family of aircraft offer industry-leading cabin, cockpit and safety technologies and the longest ranges at the fastest speeds in their respective classes. The following represents Gulfstream s current product line, along with the maximum range, maximum speed, cabin length (excluding baggage), and total number of city-pair speed records held for each aircraft: The most recent additions to the in-service Gulfstream fleet are two new large-cabin aircraft, the G500 and G600, which entered service in 2018 and 2019, respectively. These clean-sheet (i.e., all-new) aircraft replace the G450 and G550 models, whose combined family has an installed base of more than 1,650 aircraft around the world. Our investment included development of a new wing, new avionics, 4 new fuselage and new ergonomically designed larger interiors, as well as systems and technologies to improve the manufacturing process and quality of the platform. As a result, the G500 and G600 are faster, more fuel efficient and have greater cabin volume, more range and improved flight controls compared with the aircraft they are replacing. At year-end 2021, cumulative deliveries for these aircraft totaled almost 150. The next model to join the Gulfstream lineup is the ultra-long-range, ultra-large-cabin G700. It combines our most spacious cabin with our advanced Symmetry Flight Deck, the industry s most technologically advanced flight deck, which we launched on our G500 and G600 aircraft, and the superior high-speed performance of all-new engines to create best-in-class capabilities. Gulfstream is in the process of flight testing and certification of the G700, which currently has over 2,200 test hours. We expect the G700 to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2022 pending certification from the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). In October 2021, we introduced two new aircraft, the ultra-long-range, ultra-large-cabin G800 and large-cabin G400, completing a nearly two-decade effort to develop an all-new family of Gulfstream aircraft. Both aircraft combine our industry-leading high-speed range and efficiency, safety enhancements, and our advanced Symmetry Flight Deck. The G800 is Gulfstream s longest-range aircraft, with an 8,000 nautical mile range at Mach 0.85, and it is expected to enter service in 2023 pending FAA certification. The G400 is a clean-sheet design developed in concert with the G500 and G600, thus expanding the commonality across the Gulfstream family of aircraft. Expected to enter service in 2025 pending FAA certification, the G400 will join a market segment in which Gulfstream has not participated for several decades. The ultra-long-range, ultra-large-cabin G650 and G650ER continue to generate significant customer interest, with more than 470 aircraft of this family currently operating in 50 countries. Since the first G650 entered service in December 2012, its capabilities and reliability have led to significant sales and expansion of our installed base around the globe. Gulfstream s current product line holds more than 270 city-pair speed records, more than any other business jet manufacturer, led by the G650ER, which holds the National Aeronautic Association s polar and westbound around-the-world speed records. Our disciplined and consistent approach to new product development has allowed us to introduce repeatedly first-to-market capabilities that set industry standards for safety, performance, quality, speed and comfort. Product enhancement and development efforts include initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, flight-control and vision systems, acoustics, and cabin technologies. Gulfstream designs, develops and manufactures aircraft in Savannah, Georgia, including all large-cabin models. The mid-cabin G280 is assembled by a non-U.S. partner. All models are outfitted in Gulfstream s U.S. facilities. As Gulfstream s aircraft portfolio and customer base have grown and become increasingly global in reach over the years, we have invested in our facilities and operations around the world. At our Savannah campus, we added new purpose-built manufacturing facilities, increased aircraft service capacity, and opened a customer-support distribution center and a dedicated R D campus. We offer comprehensive support for the more than 3,000 Gulfstream aircraft in service around the world and operate the largest factory-owned service network in the industry. We continue to invest in these maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facilities and inventory to accommodate fleet growth. We also operate a 24/7 year-round customer support center and offer on-call Gulfstream aircraft technicians ready to deploy around the world for customer service requirements under our Field and Airborne Support Team (FAST) rapid-response unit. 5 In addition to expanding the reach of Gulfstream s aircraft maintenance network outside the United States, Jet Aviation provides a comprehensive suite of innovative aircraft services for aircraft owners and operators around the world. With approximately 50 locations throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region, our offerings include maintenance, aircraft management, charter, staffing and fixed-base operator (FBO) services. Jet Aviation manages nearly 300 business aircraft globally on behalf of individuals and corporate owners. We operate a leading global FBO network and support all aircraft types with the full range of maintenance services, including 24/7 global aircraft-on-ground support. We also operate one of the world s largest custom completion and refurbishment centers for both narrow- and wide-body aircraft and perform modifications, upgrades and lifecycle sustainment support for various government fleets. We continue to grow our global footprint through acquisitions, expansions and significant renovations in key business aviation markets. The following map displays the broad reach of our combined Gulfstream and Jet Aviation services network, including authorized service centers: The Aerospace segment is committed to sustainability and the reduction of aviation s carbon footprint. In support of this strategy, Gulfstream and Jet Aviation offer sustainable aviation fuel through our combined services network and lead the industry in total gallons supplied to the business jet market. Furthermore, we offer carbon offset credits and book and claim options to our customers, enabling them to operate aircraft on a carbon-neutral basis. Revenue for the Aerospace segment was 21% of our consolidated revenue in 2021 and 2020 and 25% in 2019. Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2021 2020 2019 Aircraft manufacturing $ 5,864 $ 6,115 $ 7,541 Aircraft services 2,271 1,960 2,260 Total Aerospace $ 8,135 $ 8,075 $ 9,801 6 MARINE SYSTEMS Our Marine Systems segment is the leading designer and builder of nuclear-powered submarines and a leader in surface combatant and auxiliary ship design and construction for the U.S. Navy. We also provide maintenance, modernization and lifecycle support services for Navy ships and maintain the most sophisticated marine engineering expertise in the world to support future capabilities. Our ability to design, build and maintain our nation s most technologically sophisticated warships is a critical element of the U.S. defense industrial base. In addition to Navy ships, we design and build ocean-going Jones Act ships for commercial customers. Marine Systems consists of three business units Electric Boat, Bath Iron Works and NASSCO. In support of our Navy customer s significant increase in demand for submarines and surface ships, we are making substantial investments to expand our facilities, grow and train our workforce, and expand our supply chain. The resulting increase in capacity and capabilities will support the unprecedented growth expected in our shipbuilding business, particularly submarines, for the next two decades. Electric Boat is the prime contractor and lead shipyard on all Navy nuclear-powered submarine programs. The business is responsible for all aspects of design and engineering and leads the construction of both the Virginia-class attack submarine and the Columbia-class ballistic-missile submarine. The Navy procures Virginia-class submarines in multi-boat blocks, currently at a two-per-year rate. We are currently working on Blocks IV and V in the program, with 19 Virginia-class submarines in our backlog scheduled for delivery through 2031. Nine of the boats in Block V include the Virginia Payload Module (VPM), an 84-foot Electric Boat-designed-and-built hull section that adds four additional payload tubes, more than tripling the strike capacity of these submarines and providing unique capabilities to support special missions. The Columbia-class ballistic-missile submarine is a 12-boat program that the Navy considers its top acquisition priority. Accordingly, the program has received the highest possible rating from the government s Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS). These submarines will provide strategic deterrent capabilities for decades, with the first boat delivering in 2027 to begin replacement of the current Ohio-class ballistic-missile submarine fleet as it reaches the end of its service life. Construction is scheduled to continue for two decades, and the value of the Navy s program of record is in excess of $110 billion. The submarine s design was more than 80% complete at the time we began construction of the first boat in 2020, nearly twice as mature as any of the Navy s previous submarine programs at the start of construction. We are investing $1.8 billion of capital in expanded and modernized facilities at Electric Boat to support the growth in submarine construction and expect the projects to be substantially complete by the end of 2023. Equal to the commitment of capital is our commitment to our Electric Boat workforce, which is on track to grow approximately 25% in the current decade, particularly in support of Columbia-class production. Along with strong contributions from the states of Connecticut and Rhode Island, we continue to invest in the training and tools necessary for our employees to be prepared to deliver these next-generation submarines to the Navy on time and on budget. We are also working with our network of approximately 3,000 suppliers mostly small businesses to support concurrent production of the two submarine programs. 7 Bath Iron Works builds the Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) guided-missile destroyers and manages modernization and lifecycle support for the class. We have a total of 10 ships in backlog scheduled for delivery through 2027. NASSCO specializes in Navy auxiliary and support ships and is currently building the Expeditionary Sea Base (ESB), which serves as an afloat forward-staging base for U.S. Marines and special operations forces, and the John Lewis-class (T-AO-205) fleet replenishment oiler. Work on the two ESBs in backlog will continue into 2024, while the initial ships in the T-AO-205 program have deliveries planned into 2025. NASSCO has also designed and built crude oil and product tankers and container and cargo ships for commercial customers, satisfying Jones Act requirements that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be built in U.S. shipyards. On December 31, 2021, backlog for our major ship construction programs and the scheduled final delivery date of ships currently in backlog were as follows: In addition to design and construction activities, our Marine Systems segment provides comprehensive post-delivery services to modernize and extend the service life of these and other Navy ships. NASSCO conducts full-service maintenance and surface-ship repair operations in Navy fleet concentration areas in San Diego, California; Norfolk, Virginia; Mayport, Florida; and Bremerton, Washington. Electric Boat provides submarine maintenance and modernization services in a variety of U.S. locations, and Bath Iron Works provides lifecycle support services for Navy surface ships in both U.S. and overseas ports. In support of allied navies, we offer program management, planning, engineering and design support for submarine and surface-ship construction programs. 8 Revenue for the Marine Systems segment was 27% of our consolidated revenue in 2021, 26% in 2020 and 23% in 2019. Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2021 2020 2019 Nuclear-powered submarines $ 7,117 $ 6,938 $ 6,254 Surface ships 2,328 2,055 1,912 Repair and other services 1,081 986 1,017 Total Marine Systems $ 10,526 $ 9,979 $ 9,183 COMBAT SYSTEMS Our Combat Systems segment is a premier manufacturer and integrator of land combat solutions worldwide, including wheeled and tracked combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions. The segment consists of three business units Land Systems, European Land Systems (ELS), and Ordnance and Tactical Systems (OTS). Combat Systems creates long-term value through operational excellence high-quality, on-schedule and on-budget performance combined with investments in innovative technologies that modernize existing platforms and develop next-generation capabilities to meet our customers rapidly evolving requirements. We maintain our market-leading position by focusing on innovation, affordability and speed to market to deliver increased survivability, performance and lethality on the battlefield. Our large installed base of wheeled and tracked vehicles around the world and expertise gained from research, engineering and production programs position us well for modernization programs, support and sustainment services, and future development programs. Land Systems is the sole-source producer of two foundational products central to the U.S. Army s warfighting capabilities the M1A2 Abrams main battle tank and Stryker wheeled combat vehicle. Both of these platforms are critical to the multi-domain, joint war fight envisioned on the battlefield of the future. We are maximizing the effectiveness and lethality of the Army s tank fleet with next-generation Abrams upgrades, providing technological advancements in communications, power generation, fuel efficiency, optics and armor. Even as we are delivering this modernized platform in the System Enhanced Package Version 3 (SEPv3) configuration, we are developing an Abrams SEPv4 configuration with additional advanced capabilities, including incorporating next-generation electronic architecture technology that will allow this platform to adapt and incorporate transformative capabilities into the future. We are also upgrading Abrams tanks for several non-U.S. partners. The Stryker is an eight-wheeled, medium-weight combat vehicle that combines lethality, mobility and survivability. Land Systems continues to develop upgrades and enhancements to this highly versatile and combat-proven platform to address the Army s evolving operational needs. We are fielding a new-generation Stryker that includes the double-V-hull (DVH) for survivability, increased power, improved cross-country mobility and an advanced digital, in-vehicle network. We have completed fielding these vehicles for the first of nine Army brigades, as well as for the Army s Ranger Regiment. In addition, coordination continues with the Army for next-generation upgrades to the platform and new uses for the vehicle. Leveraging our rapid prototyping expertise and customer intimacy, we continue to expand the mission capabilities of this platform, including an air defense mission package (M-SHORAD), a state-of-the-art electronic warfare suite, a high-energy laser, a high-power microwave, and several command post options. 9 Combat Systems provides similar capabilities for U.S. allies through export opportunities and through our operations in several countries around the world, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, Switzerland, Austria and Germany. As a result, we have a market-leading position in light armored vehicles (LAVs) with approximately 14,000 of the high-mobility, versatile Pandur, Piranha and other LAVs in service worldwide. Land Systems is producing 360 new LAVs in eight variants, including ambulances, command posts, maintenance and recovery vehicles, and troop-carrying vehicles, for the Canadian Army, as well as upgrading its existing fleet. Land Systems is also producing the British Army s AJAX armored fighting vehicle, a next-generation, medium-weight tracked combat vehicle. With six variants, including a reconnaissance vehicle, an armored personnel carrier, and various support platforms, the AJAX family of vehicles offers advanced electronic architecture and proven technology for an unparalleled balance of survivability, lethality and mobility, along with high reliability for a vehicle in its weight class. ELS is producing and upgrading Piranha vehicles, a premier 8x8 armored combat vehicle, around the world. We are currently providing Piranha 5 vehicles for several countries, including Denmark, Romania and Spain. Additionally, we provide mobile bridge systems with payloads ranging from 100 kilograms to 100 tons to customers worldwide. We offer the ASCOD, a highly versatile tracked combat vehicle with multiple versions, including the Spanish Pizarro and the Austrian Ulan. ELS also offers Duro and Eagle tactical vehicles in a range of options and weight classes and is currently producing these vehicles for Denmark, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Germany, while providing a full range of product support for the German armed forces. We are expanding our platform capabilities through continued investment in robotic and autonomous vehicle technology. We have the Multi-Utility Tactical Transport (MUTT), a semi-autonomous robotic platform that can be equipped with an array of modular mission payloads for use alongside dismounted soldiers. This platform was selected as the U.S. Army s first robotic vehicle program of record and is officially designated as the Small Multipurpose Equipment Transport (SMET). Additionally, we have the Tracked Robot 10-ton (TRX) prototype, a medium-sized, semi-autonomous combat vehicle that enables critical battlefield roles, such as direct and indirect fire, autonomous resupply, reconnaissance and other battlefield missions. 10 On December 31, 2021, the installed base for our major vehicle programs, as well as the quantity and scheduled final delivery date of vehicles and vehicle upgrades currently in backlog were as follows: Complementing these military-vehicle offerings, OTS designs, develops and produces a comprehensive array of sophisticated weapon systems for ground forces, including the M2/M2-A1 heavy machine guns and MK19/MK47 grenade launchers. OTS also produces next-generation weapon systems for shipboard and aircraft applications, including high-speed Gatling guns for all U.S. fighter aircraft, including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. OTS s munitions portfolio covers the full breadth of naval, air and ground forces applications across all calibers and weapon platforms for the U.S. government and its non-U.S. partners. Globally, we maintain a market-leading position in the supply of Hydra-70 rockets, general-purpose bombs and bomb bodies, large-caliber tank ammunition, medium-caliber ammunition, military propellants, mortar, and artillery projectiles. OTS is also the systems integrator for the next generation of artillery solutions in support of the Army s Indirect Fire Modernization objectives. Additionally, OTS maintains a leading position providing missile subsystems in support of U.S. tactical and strategic missiles, provisioning both legacy and next-generation missiles with critical aerostructures, control actuators, high-performance warheads and cutting-edge hypersonic rocket cases. 11 Revenue for the Combat Systems segment was 19% of our consolidated revenue in 2021 and 2020 and 18% in 2019. Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2021 2020 2019 Military vehicles $ 4,699 $ 4,687 $ 4,620 Weapons systems, armament and munitions 2,006 1,991 1,906 Engineering and other services 646 545 481 Total Combat Systems $ 7,351 $ 7,223 $ 7,007 TECHNOLOGIES Our Technologies segment provides a full spectrum of services, technologies and products to an expanding market that increasingly seeks solutions combining leading-edge electronic hardware with specialized software. The segment is organized into two business units Information Technology (GDIT) and Mission Systems. Together they serve a wide range of military, intelligence and federal civilian customers with a diverse portfolio that includes: information technology (IT) solutions and mission-support services; mobile communication, computers, command-and-control and cyber (C5) mission systems; and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) solutions. This market has experienced a series of structural shifts in recent years, and our response to those trends has further solidified our position as a market leader. Over the past decade, the Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community and federal civilian agencies have increasingly prioritized technology solutions as a critical element of their missions. Cloud computing capabilities, cyber security threats, and advancements in artificial intelligence have transformed technology resources from short-cycle back-office support functions to a strategic priority for this customer community. The result is a significant increase in federal IT modernization and technology investments in recent years and a shift to large-scale, end-to-end, highly engineered solutions that require critical mass and a broad array of technology services and hardware offerings to meet these customer demands. The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has only accelerated these trends, which have included an expansion of remote connectivity and added urgency to required technology investments. These market shifts have resulted in significant consolidation in the industry in recognition of the scale and breadth of capabilities required to meet this growing demand. In response to these market dynamics, in 2015 we combined our C5 and ISR operations into a single Mission Systems business unit, and in 2018 we acquired CSRA, Inc. (CSRA), which doubled the size of our IT services business, brought critical capabilities and repositioned the segment as a leader in this market. During the four years following the acquisition of CSRA, GDIT and Mission Systems carried out considerable portfolio shaping and realignment. At the top level, the two businesses share the same defense, intelligence and federal civilian customer base and increasingly go to market together to meet the ever-changing information-systems and mission-support needs of these customers. In addition, with the convergence of digital technologies, the two businesses have considerable commonality and benefit from significant complementary pull-through in their core offerings and solution sets, particularly in the areas of cloud computing; artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML); big data analytics; development, security and operations (DevSecOps); software-defined networks; and everything as-a-service (XaaS). 12 With a broad network of global partners, the segment develops solutions that keep its customers at the leading edge of technology in support of their missions. The segment s highly skilled workforce is one of its key differentiators and comprises approximately 40,000 employees, including technologists, engineers, mission experts and cleared personnel dedicated to solving the toughest security and technology challenges facing the United States and its allies. GDIT modernizes large-scale IT enterprises and deploys the latest technologies to optimize and protect customer networks, data and information. Operating hundreds of complex digital modernization programs across the federal government, GDIT s expansive portfolio includes cloud strategy and services, cybersecurity, network modernization, managed services, AI/ML, application development, and high-performance computing. Mission Systems offers solutions across all domains and produces a unique combination of products and capabilities that are purpose-built for essential C5ISR applications. Our technologies and products are often built into platforms and integrated systems on which our customers rely. The business portfolio includes prime contract programs to provide innovative defense-electronics solutions as well as subcontract efforts that enhance the capabilities of large-scale land, air, sea and space platforms. The Technologies segment leverages its scale, partnerships and deep knowledge of its customers missions and challenges to bring innovation to those customers across a portfol