Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 Executive Officers of the Company 24 PART II Item 5. Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 25 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 50 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B. Other Information 109 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 109 Item 11. Executive Compensation 109 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 109 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 110 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees a nd Services 110 PART IV Item 15. Index to Exhibits 110 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 114 Signatures 115 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS (Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts or unless otherwise noted) BUSINESS OVERVIEW General Dynamics is a global aerospace and defense company that offers a broad portfolio of products and services in business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; information technology (IT) services; command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) solutions; and shipbuilding and ship repair. General Dynamics was incorporated in Delaware in 1952. We took actions beginning in the mid-1990s that laid the foundation for modern-day General Dynamics, including acquiring Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, combat-vehicle businesses, IT services and C4ISR solutions companies, and additional shipyards. In 2018, we continued to position our company for future growth and superior profitability through the acquisition of CSRA, our largest acquisition to date. Our company consists of 10 business units, which are organized into five operating segments: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Information Technology, Mission Systems and Marine Systems. We refer to the latter four segments collectively as our defense segments. We have a balanced business model which gives each business unit the flexibility to stay agile and maintain an intimate understanding of customer requirements. Each business unit is responsible for the execution of its strategy and operational performance. Our corporate leaders set the overall strategy and governance for the company and are responsible for allocating and deploying capital. Our ethos based on honesty, transparency, trust and alignment undergirds our culture, our business model and our decision-making. This unique model keeps us focused on our priorities: exceeding customer expectations; executing on backlog; managing costs; implementing continuous improvement; and maximizing earnings, cash and return on invested capital. Following is additional information on each of our operating segments. AEROSPACE Our Aerospace segment is at the forefront of the business-jet industry. The segment consists of our Gulfstream and Jet Aviation business units. We offer a family of Gulfstream aircraft and provide a full range of services for business aircraft produced by Gulfstream and other original equipment manufacturers. We have earned our reputation through: superior aircraft design, quality, performance, safety and reliability; technologically advanced flight deck and cabin systems; and industry-leading customer support. Gulfstream designs, manufactures and supports the world s most technologically advanced business-jet aircraft. Our product line encompasses aircraft across a variety of price and performance options from mid- to ultra-large-cabin business jets. The many combinations of range, speed, size and cabin customization generate aircraft best suited for each customer s unique requirements. Our disciplined and consistent approach to new product development allows us to repeatedly introduce first-to-market capabilities that set industry standards for safety, performance, quality, speed and comfort. 3 Our continual investment in research and development (R D) leads to new aircraft that consistently broaden customer offerings while raising the bar for safety and performance. Product enhancement and development efforts include initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, flight-control and vision systems, acoustics, and cabin technologies. As part of its sustainability strategy, Gulfstream, in 2019, made its first customer sales of sustainable aviation fuel. In 2019, the all-new G600 earned both its type and production certificates from the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and we delivered the first aircraft to customers. The G600 has a range of 6,500 nautical miles at a cruise speed of Mach 0.85 and a maximum operating speed of Mach 0.925. The aircraft has earned 11 city-pair speed records and has low cabin altitude air pressure to reduce travel fatigue. The G600 joins the G500, which achieved its certifications and first customer deliveries in 2018. Both aircraft reflect our consistent, long-term investment in R D, and both have seen strong customer interest. The G500 and G600 received Aviation Week s 2020 Platform Laureate Award for extraordinary achievement in business aviation. The ultra-long-range, ultra-large-cabin G650 and G650ER continue to generate significant customer interest, with more than 400 aircraft of this family currently operating in 40 countries. Since the first G650 entered service in 2012, its capabilities and reliability have led to significant sales and installed base around the globe. In 2019, the G650ER continued to demonstrate superior speed and range capabilities, conducting a record-setting flight from Singapore to Tucson, Arizona, over a distance of 8,379 nautical miles at an average speed of 597 miles per hour (Mach 0.85). In October, we announced the launch of the ultra-long-range G700, which we expect will enter service in 2022. The G700 is designed to blend our most spacious cabin with the advanced Symmetry flight deck and superior high-speed performance to enable a range of 7,500 nautical miles at Mach 0.85 or 6,400 nautical miles at Mach 0.90. There is already significant customer interest in this new product in both the domestic and international markets. Gulfstream designs, develops and manufactures aircraft in Savannah, Georgia, including manufacturing of all large-cabin models. The mid-cabin G280 is assembled by a non-U.S. partner. All models are outfitted in Gulfstream s U.S. facilities. In support of Gulfstream s growing aircraft portfolio and customer base, we continue to invest in our facilities. At our Savannah campus, we have added new purpose-built manufacturing facilities, increased aircraft service capacity, and opened a customer-support distribution center and a dedicated R D center. We offer comprehensive support for the more than 2,800 Gulfstream aircraft in service around the world and operate the largest factory-owned service network in the industry. We operate a 24/7 year-round Customer Support Center and offer on-call Gulfstream aircraft technicians ready to deploy around the world for customer service requirements. In 2019, we opened a new maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility in Savannah to accommodate fleet growth, giving Gulfstream more than one-million square feet of dedicated MRO hangar, office and shop space in Savannah. We also significantly expanded our MRO service center in Appleton, Wisconsin, which now has more than 100,000 square feet of hangar space, enough to accommodate 12 G650ER aircraft. In 2019, Gulfstream and Jet Aviation opened a new 10,000-square-foot terminal and 43,000-square-foot hangar at Van Nuys, the primary business-aviation airport servicing the Los Angeles area. Gulfstream utilizes the space as an MRO service center, its second in the area complementing its Long Beach facility. Van Nuys will serve as the operating base for Gulfstream s local Field and Airborne Support Team (FAST), a rapid-response unit that specializes in troubleshooting grounded aircraft. Jet Aviation uses the space as a fixed-base operator (FBO) facility and became the first FBO at Van Nuys to offer sustainable aviation fuel. 4 Jet Aviation has been a global leader in business-aviation services for over 50 years, providing comprehensive services and an extensive network of locations for aircraft owners and operators. With approximately 50 airport sites throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific, our offerings include maintenance, FBO, aircraft management, charter, staffing and government fleet services. In 2019, we continued to grow our global footprint, conducting acquisitions, expansions or significant renovations in key business-aviation markets including Teterboro, New Jersey; Dallas, Texas; Scottsdale, Arizona; San Juan, Puerto Rico; West Palm Beach, Florida; and the Middle East. With its relentless devotion to customer service, Jet Aviation was named Fixed Base Operator of the Year at the 2019 Aviation Business Awards. In addition to these capabilities, Jet Aviation manages nearly 300 business aircraft globally on behalf of individual and corporate owners. Jet Aviation also offers custom completions for narrow- and wide-body aircraft. We increased the capacity of Jet Aviation s wide-body hangar in Basel, Switzerland, to 94,000 square feet, to fulfill the demand for completions and refurbishments. As a market leader in the business-aviation industry, the Aerospace segment is focused on developing innovative first-to-market technologies and products; providing exemplary service to customers globally; and driving efficiencies in aircraft production, completions and services. Revenue for the Aerospace segment was 25% of our consolidated revenue in 2019 , 23% in 2018 and 26% in 2017 . Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2019 2018 2017 Aircraft manufacturing and completions $ 7,355 $ 6,226 $ 6,320 Aircraft services 2,154 2,096 1,743 Pre-owned aircraft 292 133 66 Total Aerospace $ 9,801 $ 8,455 $ 8,129 COMBAT SYSTEMS Our Combat Systems segment offers combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions for the U.S. government and its non-U.S. partners. We are a platform solutions provider, offering market-leading design, development, production, modernization and sustainment services. With extensive and proven product lines, we deliver tailored solutions for diverse customer-mission needs. Our Combat Systems segment is well-positioned to serve the growing needs of its largest customer, the U.S. Army, as it increases the readiness of its current force and modernizes for the future, while at the same time meeting the growing international demand driven by the global threat environment. We work closely with the U.S. Army Futures Command to meet its critical modernization objectives, currently participating in five of its cross-functional teams. Our large installed base of wheeled and tracked vehicles around the world and expertise gained from innovative research, engineering and production programs position us well for modernization programs, support and sustainment services, and future development programs. Our Combat Systems segment consists of three business units: European Land Systems, Land Systems, and Ordnance and Tactical Systems. The segment s product lines include: wheeled combat and tactical vehicles; main battle tanks and tracked combat vehicles; weapons systems, armament and munitions; and maintenance, logistics support and sustainment services. 5 Wheeled combat and tactical vehicles: The segment provides a full range of vehicles to a global customer base, which includes vehicles in over 20 countries. The Stryker is an eight-wheeled, medium-weight combat vehicle that combines mobility and survivability. Over 3,300 Strykers have been fielded to date. Strykers come in 11 different variants, with approximately 70% commonality across the fleet. We continue to innovate and demonstrate ways the Stryker can be modified to address the Army s evolving operational needs. In 2018, the Army made the decision to upgrade all nine Stryker brigades to the Stryker A1 configuration. We are currently under contract for two of the brigades, with estimated completion in 2021. The Stryker A1 builds upon the combat-proven double-V-hull (DVH) configuration, providing significantly higher rates of survivability against mines and improvised explosive devices. In addition to the DVH survivability, the Stryker A1 provides a 50% power upgrade with a 450-horsepower engine, 60,000-pound suspension to improve cross-country mobility, 910-amp alternator for power and growth margin, and an improved digital, in-vehicle network. It is among the most versatile, mobile and safe personnel carriers in the Army inventory. The Stryker Maneuver Short-Range Air Defense vehicle (M-SHORAD) program integrates an air defense mission package onto a reconfigured Stryker A1 vehicle. The M-SHORAD vehicle is another variation we quickly developed to address the Army s requirement to counter closer-in air and missile defense threats. We also produce the Stryker Infantry Carrier Vehicle Dragoon (ICVD), which delivers greater firepower via a 30mm weapon system. First delivered in 2017, the Army announced in 2019 that it would outfit three brigades with the medium caliber weapons system. We continue to work on high-energy laser and mobile command post options. We expect the Stryker platform to continue to demonstrate its versatility well into the future. In 2019, the Royal Thai Army took delivery of the first set of Stryker fighting vehicles purchased through a foreign military sale contract for $175 that includes 60 Stryker vehicles with equipment and support. Thailand is the first country to receive Stryker vehicles under export. We also have a market-leading position in light armored vehicles (LAVs) with more than 13,000 vehicles in service around the world. Our LAVs combine advanced technologies and combat-proven survivability. We are upgrading the Canadian Army s fleet of LAVs to increase mobility, survivability and lethality, as well as enhance the vehicle s surveillance suite. Additionally, in 2019 we were awarded a contract from Canada for 360 combat support LAVs in eight variants for $1.3 billion. We also provide, under a contract with the Canadian government, wheeled armored vehicles for export and associated logistics through 2024. We deliver high-mobility, versatile Pandur and Piranha armored vehicles to non-U.S. customers. The Pandur family of vehicles serves as a common platform for various armament and equipment configurations. The Piranha is a multi-role vehicle well-suited for a variety of combat operations. We are producing Piranha vehicles for Denmark, Romania and Switzerland, and upgrading Piranha vehicles for Ireland. We continue to work closely with the Spanish government to achieve a contract award to produce 348 8x8 vehicles based on the Piranha 5 vehicle in six variants and provide associated logistical support. There are over 3,000 Pandurs and 11,000 Piranhas in service worldwide. Outside the United States, the Duro and Eagle vehicles offer a range of options and weight classes. We are upgrading Duro tactical vehicles for the Swiss Army and producing Eagle 5 armored wheeled vehicles for the Royal Danish Army. Additionally, we provide a portfolio of mobile bridge systems with payloads ranging from 100 kilograms to 100 tons, which can be deployed within minutes to enable heavy vehicles, including Abrams tanks, to cross various sizes of water barriers. Main battle tanks and tracked combat vehicles: The segment s powerful tracked vehicles provide key combat capabilities to customers around the world. The Abrams main battle tank offers a proven, decisive 6 edge in combat. We are maximizing the effectiveness and lethality of the U.S. Army s M1A2 Abrams tank fleet with the System Enhancement Package Version 3 (SEPv3), which provides technological advancements in communications, power generation, fuel efficiency and armor. In 2019, we were awarded a contract for $714 from the Army to upgrade 174 M1A1 Abrams main battle tanks to the state-of-the-art M1A2 SEPv3 configuration. This brings the total number of M1A2 SEPv3 tanks ordered by the Army since 2018 to 274, or more than three brigades of tanks. We are currently under contract to develop further upgrades for the SEPv4 configuration. Additionally, we are upgrading Abrams tanks for several non-U.S. partners. We are delivering 12 medium-weight, large-caliber prototype vehicles for the Army s Mobile Protected Firepower program, providing a new opportunity to field vehicles in Infantry Brigade Combat Team (IBCT) formations using our newest combat-proven capabilities suite. The vehicles are highly lethal, survivable and mobile. We are producing the British Army s AJAX armored fighting vehicle, a next-generation, medium-weight tracked combat vehicle. The segment will also provide in-service support for the AJAX vehicle fleet. With six variants, the AJAX family of vehicles offers advanced electronic architecture and proven technology for an unparalleled balance of survivability, lethality and mobility, along with high reliability for a vehicle in its weight class. Work on the AJAX program is transitioning from engineering to test and then to full production. We expect to be in steady-state production through 2024. Weapons systems, armament and munitions: Complementing these military-vehicle offerings, the segment designs, develops and produces a comprehensive array of sophisticated weapons systems. For ground forces, we manufacture M2/M2-A1 heavy machine guns and MK19/MK47 grenade launchers. The segment also produces legacy and next-generation weapons systems for shipboard applications. For airborne platforms, we produce weapons such as high-speed Gatling guns for all U.S. fighter aircraft, including the Joint Strike Fighter. Our munitions portfolio covers the full breadth of naval, air and ground forces applications across all calibers and weapons platforms for the U.S. government and its non-U.S. partners. In North America, the segment maintains a market-leading position in the supply of Hydra-70 rockets, large-caliber tank ammunition, medium-caliber ammunition, mortar and artillery projectiles, tactical missile aerostructures, high-performance warheads, military propellants, and conventional bombs and bomb cases. The Combat Systems segment emphasizes operational excellence and continuous improvement in a dynamic threat environment with ever-evolving customer needs. We are focused on innovation, affordability and speed to market to deliver increased survivability, performance and lethality on the battlefield. Revenue for the Combat Systems segment was 18% of our consolidated revenue in 2019 , 17% in 2018 and 19% in 2017 . Revenue by major products and services was as follows: Year Ended December 31 2019 2018 2017 Military vehicles $ 4,620 $ 4,027 $ 3,731 Weapons systems, armament and munitions 1,906 1,798 1,633 Engineering and other services 481 416 585 Total Combat Systems $ 7,007 $ 6,241 $ 5,949 7 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Our Information Technology segment provides a wide spectrum of services and capabilities, including artificial intelligence, cloud computing, cyber, software development, systems engineering, IT modernization and data analytics. We put these technologies to work across thousands of projects, combining in-depth technical expertise with deep mission knowledge for a broad spectrum of customers in the defense, intelligence and federal civilian markets. With a network of more than 90 global partners, we develop solutions that keep our customers at the leading edge of technology in support of their missions. Our highly skilled workforce is central to our diverse portfolio of services and comprises over 30,000 employees, including technologists, mission experts and cleared personnel. This portfolio aligns to three broad capability categories: IT services; IT infrastructure modernization; and professional services. IT services: We manage global IT enterprise operations for our customers, including in the classified domain. We provide technology consulting, solution design, system integration, operations and maintenance, cloud services, applications development, and cyber defense for enterprise systems. At the Pentagon, we provide cybersecurity services that include end-point security, network security and incident handling. For the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS), we provide IT hosting and operating services and maintenance in support of claims processing for more than 49 million Medicare beneficiaries. In 2019, we received several key contracts to provide intelligence services to classified customers. We were also awarded a contract for $325 by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to provide priority telecommunications services to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency s Emergency Communications Division to maintain continuity of government operations during emergencies. We provide telecommunication expertise and priority voice, data, video and information services during natural disasters, acts of terrorism and war. These critical services maintain real-time emergency communications for thousands of users across the federal government, facilitating the continuity of operations and emergency response. IT infrastructure modernization: We provide IT infrastructure modernization services for our defense and national security customers, including designing, building and operating global enterprise IT infrastructures; system design and engineering; data center consolidation; and cloud strategy, migration and operation. We are working with the Department of Defense (DoD) to migrate its applications to the cloud. This program milCloud 2.0 provides a hybrid cloud solution designed specifically for the warfighter that offers ease of use, improved performance, enhanced security and greater affordability. Additionally, we provide engineering and technical services in support of our national security customers, protecting mission-critical systems and information from domestic and foreign adversaries with advanced cybersecurity capabilities. In 2019, we were selected by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide advanced technologies to support increased efficiencies in its workforce. This will include artificial intelligence, machine learning, natural language processing and robotic process automation. We also support DHS with migration and consolidation of data center operations while introducing new technologies to improve security and mission performance. 8 Professional services: Our portfolio of professional services includes logistics and supply chain management; training and simulation; and life sciences, medical research and specialized mission support services. In 2019, we won a $2 billion contract to continue managing the U.S. State Department s global supply chain that ensures the secure transportation and delivery of millions of assets to worldwide posts including those in high-threat environments. Through this contract, we also secure U.S. posts abroad and help the government respond to natural disasters with logistics and transportation services. In our defense portfolio, we provide turnkey training and simulation services for the U.S. Army s Aviation Center of Excellence in Fort Rucker, Alabama, the largest helicopter flight training program in the world. In 2019, we won a contract for $44 to continue conducting research on traumatic brain injury, symptom diagnostics, treatment, rehabilitation methods and the effect of repetitive exposure to sub-concussive blasts from weapons. We have supported this contract through a network of 21 sites since 2014. These include military treatment facilities, major trauma rehabilitation sites within the Department of Veterans Affairs, U.S. Special Operations Command and the Defense Health Agency headquarters in Fairfax, Virginia. Revenue for the Information Technology segment was $8.4 billion in 2019 , $8.3 billion in 2018 and $4.4 billion in 2017 , which represented 21% , 23% and 14% of our consolidated revenue in each of the respective years. MISSION SYSTEMS Our Mission Systems segment is a global provider of mission-critical products and systems. We offer solutions across all domains and produce a unique combination of products and capabilities that are purpose-built for essential C4ISR and cybersecurity applications. Our technology and products are often built into platforms and integrated systems on which our customers rely. The Mission Systems segment has more than 100 locations worldwide and employs more than 13,000 engineering and technical professionals dedicated to solving the toughest security and technology challenges facing the United States and its partners. The segment s portfolio includes prime contract programs in which we deliver innovative defense-electronics hardware and integrated systems as well as subcontract efforts in support of large-scale land, air, sea and space platforms. Additionally, our Mission Systems and Information Technology segments are often partners, building on complementary skills to pursue business opportunities in the defense and intelligence markets. This ability to offer an integrated solution can provide a more economical outcome for the customer than separate procurements from varied vendors. The Mission Systems segment is organized into three core capabilities: ground systems and products; space, intelligence and cyber systems; and naval, air and electronic systems. Ground systems and products: Our Mission Systems segment is a leading manufacturer and integrator of tactical, secure communications systems for a diverse customer base, both U.S. and non-U.S. We design, build, deploy and support mission command applications; assured position, navigation and timing components; and other communications equipment and networking solutions for the U.S. defense community and non-U.S. partners. We also provide communications equipment, sensors and software for public-safety applications and to the federal government. Additionally, we provide data collection and processing products, command and control applications, and computing and communications equipment. 9 We are the prime contractor for the U.S. Army s mobile communications backbone, which provides secure voice, video and data capabilities to soldiers on-the-move, and the ability to rapidly insert new technologies into the system. We continue to work closely with our Army customer to evolve its capabilities to meet the threats of the future. In 2019, we were awarded an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contract to provide electronic and cyber warfare capabilities by leading a nationwide team of cyber technology companies to integrate technologies from multiple domains to achieve desired cyber effects. In 2019, we partnered with the Army to field a new and improved Global Positioning System (GPS) capability, known as Mounted Assured Positioning, Navigation and Timing System (MAPS) Gen 1, onto Strykers based in Germany. MAPS Gen 1 allows U.S. forces to operate in an environment where GPS signals are degraded or denied, and could eventually extend to thousands of vehicles across Europe. With a 50-year legacy in radio frequency communications and networks, we offer a range of radio products and systems for military, government and commercial customers, as well as long-term evolution broadband communications networks for first responders. We provide CM-300/350 V2 digital radios to the FAA, used by air traffic control centers, commercial airports, military air stations and range installations for reliable ground-to-air communications. In 2019, Mission Systems introduced the URC-300 radio. The URC-300 is built with a software-based architecture, enabling customization and future enhancements as new technology becomes available. We also provide many capabilities to non-U.S. agencies and commercial customers. We developed, deployed, and continue to modernize and support fully integrated, secure combat voice and data networks for the armies of Canada and the United Kingdom. These efforts, which we have supported for almost 30 years, are ongoing through the Morpheus program, which aims to modernize the United Kingdom s communications and command-and-control systems across three armed services by evolving the Bowman network into a more open, agile architecture. Space, intelligence and cyber systems: Mission Systems engineers space payloads for advanced missions, builds and manages spaceborne and ground-based communications systems, and provides mission-data tracking equipment and processing capabilities for our customers. Additionally, we design and develop high-performance sensors to gather intelligence data from across the land, air, sea, space and cyber domains, and provide geospatial intelligence products and services to meet the needs of our customers in the global defense, civilian and commercial markets. In 2019, the U.S. Navy s Mobile User Objective System (MUOS), completed the Multiservice Operational Test and Evaluation (MOT E) making it ready for operational use. Under a Navy contract with a maximum potential contract value of $732 awarded in 2019, we will sustain the integrated ground systems for this next-generation narrowband satellite communications system. We also offer a variety of cyber products and software, including our family of encryption products, to protect and defend our customers cr