Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 60 Item 1 C . Cybersecurity 60 Item 2. Properties 62 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 62 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 63 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 64 Item 6. [Reserved] 65 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 65 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 78 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 81 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Item 9B. Other Information 130 Item 9 C . Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 130 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 130 Item 11. Executive Compensation 130 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 130 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 130 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 130 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 131 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 133 Signatures 134 2 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report), including the sections titled "Business," "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), involving substantial risks and uncertainties. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "plan," "could," "should," "predict," "ongoing," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "project," "expect," "seek," or the negative of these words, or terms or similar expressions conveying uncertainty of future events or outcomes, or that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or expected. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and in our publicly available filings and press releases. These statements include, among other things, those regarding: our ability to continue to add new customers and increase sales to our existing customers; our ability to develop new solutions and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing solutions; our ability to deploy new and evolving technologies, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, data analytics and similar tools (collectively, AI), in our offerings; our dependence on establishing and maintaining a strong brand; the occurrence of service interruptions and security or privacy breaches and related remediation efforts and fines; system failures or capacity constraints; the rate of growth of, and anticipated trends and challenges in, our business and in the market for our products; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, including changes in technology and development, marketing and advertising, general and administrative and customer care expenses, and our ability to maintain future profitability; our ability to continue to efficiently acquire customers, maintain our high customer retention rates and grow the level of our customers' lifetime spend; our ability to provide high quality customer care; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to grow internationally; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our business and our ability to effectively manage the exposure to such fluctuations; our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments, including the migration of applications and services to the public cloud; our ability to integrate acquisitions, our entry into new lines of business and our ability to achieve expected results from our integrations and new lines of business; our ability to complete desired or proposed divestitures; our ability to maintain our relationships with our partners; adverse consequences of our level of indebtedness and our ability to repay our debt; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain or improve our market share; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States (U.S.) and internationally; 3 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) economic and industry trends or trend analysis; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; anticipated income tax rates, tax estimates and tax standards; our future taxable income and ability to realize our deferred tax assets; interest rate changes; the future trading prices of our Class A common stock; our expectations regarding the outcome of any regulatory investigation or litigation; the amount and timing of future repurchases of our Class A common stock under any share repurchase program; the potential impact of shareholder activism on our business and operations; our expectations regarding the effectiveness of our 2023 restructuring efforts; our ability to remediate the identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, growth prospects and business strategies. We operate in very competitive and rapidly-changing environments, and new risks emerge from time-to-time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this Annual Report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those implied in our forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances described in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Neither we, nor any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Annual Report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Unless expressly indicated or the context suggests otherwise, references to "GoDaddy," "company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to GoDaddy Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Desert Newco, LLC and its subsidiaries (Desert Newco). 4 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1. Business Overview GoDaddy is a global leader serving a large market of entrepreneurs, developing and delivering easy-to-use products in a one-stop shop solution alongside personalized guidance. We serve small businesses, individuals, organizations, developers, designers and domain investors. Our vision is to radically shift the global economy toward life-fulfilling entrepreneurial ventures. Our mission is to empower entrepreneurs everywhere, making opportunity more inclusive for all. We are passionate about our mission and honored that entrepreneurs trust their ideas with us. Our 21.0 million customers are passionate and determined to transform their ideas into something meaningful. They often face a complex road to success, and our ability to evolve and build products to meet our customers' needs uniquely positions us to help our customers navigate their journey. Our customers' journeys are non-linear and we design our services to help across all aspects of their business. Each phase in the journey can be iterative in nature; customers are constantly revisiting different stages of their entrepreneurial experience to improve and grow across what we call the "Entrepreneurs' Wheel." The Entrepreneurs' Wheel focuses on three areas: identity, presence and commerce solutions. As the needs of our customers changed and expanded, we evolved our products and services to meet them where they are on the Entrepreneurs' Wheel. Our customers often start with the most intimate of brand considerations, their identity, which we provide through our domain services that blend into their connected social identities and online presence. As their entrepreneurial needs evolve, we help our customers manage and grow their presence and connect with their customers through our expanded service offerings and access to relevant third-party products and platforms, including website building and hosting, marketplace syndication, social media and bio site management, security, business products and email and other services. In 2023, we introduced multiple customer-facing capabilities in generative AI to further enhance the customer experience. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we introduced GoDaddy Airo in the U.S. GoDaddy Airo is an AI-powered solution designed to build and help grow businesses online by delivering personalized website content, a logo, domain-based email, ready-to-use social media posts, a marketing calendar, email communications and more. Within commerce, our customers need to integrate dynamic information everywhere they engage with their audiences, including customer touchpoints such as appointment availability, retail inventory, digital subscriptions and social media. GoDaddy's product and service offerings provide a high-performance back-end registry technology platform and an integrated suite of payment systems and point-of-sale hardware and software to seamlessly manage online and offline commerce. At GoDaddy, we believe our customers should have both great technology and great customer support. We believe engaging with our customers in a proactive, consultative way through personalized guidance via phone and/or digital experiences sets them up to succeed. Through the thousands of daily conversations we have with our customers, we gather valuable feedback enabling us to continually evolve our products and solutions and respond to their changing needs. Our people and unique culture have been integral to our success. We live by the same principles that enable our customers' ideas to survive and thrive, including owning outcomes, building value, joining forces, working courageously and living passionately. We take responsibility for delivering successful outcomes based on data driven decisions, which we believe is a key factor driving our customer and revenue growth. We also believe we have one of the most recognized Internet brands in the U.S., and our international awareness remains high in our top markets. Our stable and durable business model is driven by strong brand recognition, efficient customer acquisition, high customer retention rates and increasing lifetime spend of our customers. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2023, our customer retention rate was approximately 85%, and in 2023, our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was approximately 92%. Additionally, in 2023, we had over 1.5 million customers who each spent more than $500 a year on our product offerings. We believe the breadth and depth of our product offerings, seamless ease-of-use in a one-stop shop and the high-quality, personalized guidance and responsiveness from GoDaddy Guides continues to build strong customer relationships leading to our high customer retention rates. In 2023, we generated $4,254 million of revenue, up 4.0% from $4,091 million in 2022, and we generated $4,603 million in total bookings, up 4.3% from $4,414 million in 2022. 5 Table of Contents Our Customers and Solutions GoDaddy is built to serve entrepreneurs by providing easy-to-use products on a single technology platform wrapped with personalized guidance. Our Customers We serve several customer populations: (i) Independents, (ii) WebPros, (iii) Domain Registrars and Investors, and (iv) Third Party Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners. While these customer populations tend to utilize many of the same GoDaddy product offerings, there are meaningful differences in their journeys, what they value, their goals and how they communicate with the rest of the world. We aim to establish and provide solutions that address these differences. Our largest customer population, Independents, consists mostly of microbusinesses and noncommercial endeavors. These microbusinesses have an entrepreneurial spirit, strong work ethic and, above all, passion for their ideas, yet their specific needs vary depending on the type of their idea and the phase of their journey. Independents range from individuals who have an initial business idea and those thinking about starting a business, to established ventures that need help attracting customers, growing their sales, processing payments, managing their online presence or expanding their operations. Most Independents have fewer than five employees, and most self-identify as having little to no technology or design skills. These customers need our help to create a unique and secure identity, especially with the more technical aspects of their online presence. Although our customers have differing degrees of resources and technical capabilities, they all share a desire to find tools to help them bring their ideas to life, enhance connections with their audience, sell their products and services and provide a seamless experience for both existing and new customers. Our second largest customer population, WebPros, are website designers and developers who build websites on behalf of businesses and noncommercial organizations. We estimate that half of all global website builds occur through a third party, such as our WebPros, on a do-it-for-you basis. WebPros are often freelancers, moonlighters or teams within website design agencies that often have website design as one of multiple streams of income. WebPros generally have more technical acumen and look for tools that provide greater amounts of flexibility, such as the WordPress content management system (CMS). Although WebPros have a need for technical depth and flexibility, they also benefit from our simplicity and guidance as tools to increase their throughput and maximize the use of their time. We help our WebPros customers in a number of ways beyond our product suite and services, including providing tools to help them save time, make money and exceed client expectations. These client management applications make it easier for designers and developers to manage their clients' websites at any host, or on GoDaddy products such as Managed WordPress. With our products and services, WebPros can easily manage their overall business with capabilities such as client billing, administrative access and shopping features, making it easier for them to buy and manage multiple products for their clients, as well as make use of enhanced technical support and discounts for reselling GoDaddy products. We support a variety of third-party control panels and content management tools favored by WebPros including cPanel, Plesk, Drupal, Joomla and more. Our third largest customer population is Domain Registrars and Investors. Domain registrars are organizations that have their own domain registration offerings, but who use our domain registration and management platform. These commercial arrangements provide for strategic relationships with many key platforms and enable further scale of our domain registration technology and insights. Domain investors are individuals or organizations who manage a portfolio of registered domains for the purpose of selling via secondary markets. These investors bring a unique and valuable resource to our business in the form of liquidity and the ability to help our other populations (Independents and WebPros) successfully find a domain name they prefer. We also serve Third Party Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners. We serve third party registrars through GoDaddy Registry which provides wholesale generic top level domains (gTLDs) and country-code top-level domains (ccTLDs) for registrars to sell to the end customer. These top-level domains (TLDs) provide alternatives to the .com domain that more closely represent the names of our customers' ideas, businesses and brands. We also provide a fully managed registry platform for other registry operators. We manage the full technology and operating stack at scale for over 200 TLDs including some of the largest brands in the world. Corporate Domain Portfolio owners are organizations that maintain and manage a large portfolio of domain names, including general and international domains. These customers are looking for the most powerful, secure and intuitive technology to streamline their processes, unparalleled industry experience and expertise to navigate the complexities of managing a corporate portfolio, and a focused and dedicated team that can provide committed support with the highest levels of security, service and domain management. 6 Table of Contents Our Solutions We designed and developed an extensive set of easy-to-use technology products to enable our customers to establish an identity, connect with their customers across multiple platforms and online marketplaces and deliver a seamless customer experience in a connected commerce world. We understand that no matter what our customers' needs are, or what stage of their idea they are focusing on, our customers want a "one-stop shop" solution. We offer our customers products and services to meet them at every stage of their journey. Our domain name registration products enable us to engage customers at a common starting place for establishing an exclusive personally branded identity and often are an on-ramp for our other products. Domains are a part of our Core Platform business, and we believe our Applications and Commerce products are a natural adjacency to our domain registration products. Applications and Commerce products, including our proprietary website building, commerce and productivity solutions, significantly improve our value proposition to customers, thereby increasing our revenue and margin growth opportunities and improving our customer retention. Our omni-commerce payments platform and GoDaddy Payments recognize our customers' needs and provide for cost-effective solutions. We believe our payments solutions enable our customers to quickly and easily participate in the digital economy with a seamless transition to sell in-store or on marketplaces and social platforms. We have also made significant investments in the localization of many of our product and service offerings, as 48% of our customers are located in international markets (notably the United Kingdom (UK), Canada, India and Australia). And, while not a standalone product, our GoDaddy Guides consist of approximately 6,300 specialists worldwide who are readily available and provide care to customers who have different levels of technical sophistication. In 2023, we launched GoDaddy Airo in the U.S. GoDaddy Airo is an AI-powered solution designed to save our customers time. Airo enables our customers to build and help grow businesses online by delivering personalized website content, a logo, domain-based email, ready-to-use social media posts, a marketing calendar, email communications and more. We manage and report our business in the following two segments: Applications and Commerce (A C) , which primarily consists of sales of products containing proprietary software, notably our website building products, as well as our commerce products and third-party email and productivity solutions and sales of certain products when they are included in bundled offerings of our proprietary software products. Core Platform (Core) , which primarily consists of sales of domain registrations and renewals, aftermarket domain sales, website hosting products and website security products when not included in bundled offerings of our proprietary software products as well as sales of products not containing a software component. Applications and Commerce Bringing an idea to life online requires the right tools and products to establish a presence. GoDaddy Websites + Marketing, Managed WordPress, GoDaddy Studio and other GoDaddy offerings are a part of a customer's presence that enable anyone to start, grow and scale their businesses. Our customers come to GoDaddy to build a professional website, attract customers, sell their products and services and accept payments online and in person. GoDaddy's easy-to-use tools help microbusiness owners manage everything in one place. Applications Products Our primary applications products include: Websites + Marketing . Websites + Marketing is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself, mobile-optimized online tool that enables our customers to build effective websites and e-commerce enabled online stores with minimal technical skill. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing dependent on business and marketing features. With each of these plans, customers gain access to industry-targeted professional design templates, which can be further customized using our editor by adding intent-driven sections, photos, videos or text. Our design templates cover a wide range of categories with professionally written content for small businesses, organizations, families, weddings and other ideas. We design our websites and tools to work seamlessly on mobile devices, with a focus on performance, to enable websites to appear in search engine rankings. 7 Table of Contents Managed WordPress and Managed WooCommerce Stores. Managed WordPress is our streamlined, optimized website building experience that allows our customers to easily build and manage a faster WordPress site that offers more flexibility and power than our Websites + Marketing solution. With our Managed WordPress site, we manage the administrative tasks for our customers, allowing them to spend more time on building or growing their business. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing based on various features. Our Managed WordPress sites are built with enhanced security, automatic, regular backups and core updates, integrated Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), one-click migration tools, pre-installed extensions, plugins and themes, business email and backups and a staging site. We also offer Managed WooCommerce Stores, giving our customers the freedom to sell anything, anywhere online, from physical products to digital downloads, services and subscriptions. Digital Marketing . We offer a range of marketing tools and services designed to help businesses acquire and engage customers and create content. These capabilities are available in an integrated offering with our website and commerce tools, or as a stand-alone offering for customers using other website content-management systems. The tools are designed for busy customers who may lack experience with online marketing, focusing on ease of use, mobile experience and delivering business results. For example, our mobile application, GoDaddy Studio, allows our customers to grow their brands by easily creating impactful visual content for almost any online platform. Search Engine Optimization helps our customers get their websites found on major search sites using a simple step-by-step wizard with targeted recommendations on which search phrases are most likely to drive traffic to a customer's site. Business listings capabilities bring business information to where customers are looking, including Meta and Google My Business. Email marketing lets customers build targeted campaigns, either from scratch or using website or commerce content. Social Media Marketing helps customers create ads and boost brand awareness through a complete "do-it-for-me" service for managing engagement on the most popular social networks. This service combines dedicated teams of branding experts photographers, writers, designers, marketers with proprietary technology to manage activity on Meta, X (f/k/a Twitter) and Yelp, among others, to help our customers acquire new customers and build stronger relationships with their existing customers. Commerce We aim to lead the small business commerce market by enabling GoDaddy customers of all sizes, from those just starting out to established businesses looking to scale and grow, to sell everywhere their customers shop. We design our commerce products to help our customers sell online, in person and on leading marketplaces, while being able to manage their sales from one place. In addition to robust commerce capabilities, we offer the lowest card transaction fees in the industry when compared to other leading providers, which allows our customers to keep more of what they make. Our primary commerce products and services include: Online Store. Our Websites + Marketing product includes online store capabilities, which allows our customers to transact business directly on their websites. Online store capability is easy to use and offers powerful commerce features with templates for websites that are optimized for mobile shopping, integrations with GoDaddy Payments and our Smart Terminal Point-of-Sale (POS) system, inventory and product catalog management, and growth tools for marketing. It also allows customers to sell on marketplaces such as Amazon, Etsy, eBay, Walmart and Google and social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram, with all channels managed from our centralized dashboard. As part of the GoDaddy Commerce ecosystem, Managed WooCommerce Stores, our WordPress-based online store solutions, provide our customers everything they need to sell online, in person, and across popular marketplaces and social media platforms from one built-in experience. Similar to our Websites + Marketing product, Managed WooCommerce Stores include our centralized dashboard, allow for marketplace selling and are integrated with GoDaddy Payments and our Smart Terminal POS system. Point-of-Sale (POS) Systems. We offer a countertop Smart Terminal for businesses with in-store operations. Our Smart Terminal is a modern, dual screen all-in-one POS system that allows our customers to manage in-store inventory and product catalogs and take payments. In addition, the Smart Terminal seamlessly integrates with both our Websites + Marketing Online Store and Managed WooCommerce Stores to unify in-person and online sales so businesses can offer Buy online pick up in-store experiences to their customers. The Smart Terminal also offers access to third-party applications that meet merchants' needs that we do not address directly. In addition to our Smart Terminal, we offer other payment acceptance solutions that allow our customers to take payments their way while seamlessly interacting with their customers wherever they may be. For example, we now include Payable Domains, a default payments system that creates a frictionless, out-of-the-box experience for our customers. Our Card Reader and Tap-to-Pay on the GoDaddy Mobile App (iPhone and Android) allow customers to take payments and sell on the go. Our Virtual Terminal allows customers to take payments from their smartphone, tablet or computer with Internet connection with no hardware needed. Our customers also have the ability to take online payments without needing to create a website through our Online Pay Links. Customers can brand and personalize these shareable pay links with their domain, giving them another 8 Table of Contents opportunity to build their brand. Pay links can be sent through text or email or shared on social media sites. We also provide merchants with QR code-based payments, allowing their customers to scan and pay through the GoDaddy Mobile App. GoDaddy Payments. As a "payment facilitator," GoDaddy Payments enables our customers in both the U.S. and Canada to accept all major forms of payment, including Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and contactless payments including Apple Pay and Google Pay, with no long-term contracts or monthly minimums. This service enables our customers to start accepting payments in minutes with a simple setup and get paid, in many cases, as early as the next business day, all with the lowest fees in the industry when compared to other leading providers. In addition, GoDaddy Payments is built-in as a payments acceptance method in all our U.S. and Canada commerce products for easy enablement . Email and Productivity Solutions Our customers want to spend their time on what matters most to them, selling their products and services or helping their customers do the same. We provide them with productivity tools such as domain