Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 56 Item 2. Properties 56 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 56 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 56 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 57 Item 6. [Reserved] 58 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 58 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 72 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 112 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 112 Item 9B. Other Information 114 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 Item 11. Executive Compensation 114 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 114 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 114 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117 Signatures 118 2 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report), including the sections titled "Business," "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, involving substantial risks and uncertainties. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "plan," "could," "should," "predict," "ongoing," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "project," "expect," "seek," or the negative of these words, or terms or similar expressions conveying uncertainty of future events or outcomes, or that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or expected. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and in our publicly available filings and press releases. These statements include, among other things, those regarding: our ability to continue to add new customers and increase sales to our existing customers; our ability to develop new solutions and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing solutions; our dependence on establishing and maintaining a strong brand; the occurrence of service interruptions and security or privacy breaches and related remediation efforts and fines; system failures or capacity constraints; the rate of growth of, and anticipated trends and challenges in, our business and in the market for our products; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses, including changes in technology and development, marketing and advertising, general and administrative and customer care expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; our ability to continue to efficiently acquire customers, maintain our high customer retention rates and maintain the level of our customers' lifetime spend; our ability to provide high quality customer care; the effects of increased competition in our markets and our ability to compete effectively; our ability to grow internationally; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our business and our ability to effectively manage the exposure to such fluctuations; our ability to effectively manage our growth and associated investments, including our migration of the vast majority of our infrastructure to the public cloud; our ability to integrate acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of Poynt Co. (now known as GoDaddy Payments) and Pagely, our entry into new lines of business and our ability to achieve expected results from our integrations and new lines of business; our ability to maintain our relationships with our partners; adverse consequences of our substantial level of indebtedness and our ability to repay our debt; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to maintain or improve our market share; sufficiency of cash and cash equivalents to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months; beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to stay in compliance with laws and regulations currently applicable to, or which may become applicable to, our business both in the United States (U.S.) and internationally; economic and industry trends or trend analysis; our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and key personnel; 3 Table of Contents NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) anticipated income tax rates, tax estimates and tax standards; interest rate changes; the future trading prices of our Class A common stock; our expectations regarding the outcome of any regulatory investigation or litigation; the amount and timing of future repurchases of our Class A common stock under any share repurchase program; the potential impact of shareholder activism on our business and operations; the length and severity of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its impact on our business, customers and employees; as well as other statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, growth prospects and business strategies. We operate in very competitive and rapidly-changing environments, and new risks emerge from time-to-time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those implied in our forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances described in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Neither we, nor any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Unless expressly indicated or the context suggests otherwise, references to "GoDaddy," "company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to GoDaddy Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including Desert Newco, LLC and its subsidiaries (Desert Newco). 4 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1. Business Overview GoDaddy is a global leader in serving a large market of everyday entrepreneurs, delivering simple, easy-to-use products, and outcome-driven, personalized guidance to small businesses, individuals, organizations, developers, designers and domain investors. Our vision is to radically shift the global economy toward independent entrepreneurial ventures. Our mission is to empower entrepreneurs everywhere, making opportunity more inclusive for all. We are passionate about our mission, and we recognize that the opportunity for entrepreneurs is changing. When GoDaddy began, the entrepreneurial journey was simpler: entrepreneurs needed our help to name, create, grow and manage their ventures online. Over time, the evolution of e-commerce, social media and consumer expectations of their online and in-person experiences has changed the entrepreneur's journey. GoDaddy is uniquely positioned to help our customers navigate this complexity. We champion everyday entrepreneurs by empowering them with sage guidance set in seamlessly intuitive experiences to create and protect their digital identity, establish and maintain a ubiquitous presence online and participate in the world of connected commerce. We do all of this while activating the exponential power of our community at a global scale to deliver profitable revenue growth. Our 21.2 million customers are passionate, everyday entrepreneurs with vibrant ideas, who are determined to make their way in the world and to transform their ideas into something meaningful. Our services are designed to meet and attract customers in all phases of their journey. Wherever their journey begins, whether with a domain, a physical store or on a social media platform, we are there to enable them to create content, build their website, establish and manage their online marketing, sell their products and services, syndicate marketplaces online and offline, connect social media and manage their businesses with branded email, productivity solutions and website security. Our customers often start with the most intimate of brand considerations, their identity, which we provide through our domain services. As their entrepreneurial needs evolve, we help our customers manage and grow their businesses and connect with their customers through our expanded service offerings and access to relevant third-party products and platforms, including website building and hosting, marketplace syndication, social media and bio site management, security, business products and email and other services. Recognizing that consumer expectations and behaviors are quickly changing, we evolved our product and service offerings to provide a high-performance back-end registry technology platform and an integrated suite of payment systems and point-of-sale hardware and software to seamlessly manage online and offline commerce. What it means to have an online presence has evolved to having a connected digital identity, ubiquitous presence and connected commerce that includes responsive websites integrated with social channels, search engines and e-commerce marketplaces connected to offline commerce marketplaces. Our customers need to integrate dynamic information everywhere they engage with their audiences, including customer touchpoints such as appointment availability, retail inventory, digital subscriptions and social media. At GoDaddy, we believe our customers should have both great technology and great customer support. Engaging with our customers in a proactive, consultative way through personalized guidance via phone and digital experiences sets them up to succeed. Through the thousands of daily conversations we have with our customers, we gather valuable feedback enabling us to continually evolve our products and solutions and respond to their changing needs. Our people and unique culture have been integral to our success. We live by the same principles that enable our customers' ideas to survive and thrive, including owning outcomes, building value, joining forces and working courageously. We take responsibility for delivering successful outcomes which we believe is a key factor in driving our customer and revenue growth. We also believe we have one of the most recognized Internet brands in the U.S., and our international awareness continues to rapidly increase as we grow. Our stable and predictable business model is driven by efficient customer acquisition, high customer retention rates and increasing lifetime spend. In each of the five years ended December 31, 2021, our customer retention rate exceeded 85%, and in 2021, our retention rate for customers who had been with us for over three years was more than 93%. Additionally, in 2021, we had approximately 1.5 million customers who each spent more than $500 a year on our product offerings. We believe the breadth and depth of our product offerings and the high-quality guidance and responsiveness from GoDaddy Guides has and continues to build strong customer relationships leading to our high customer retention rates. In 2021, we generated $3,816 million of revenue, up 15.0% from $3,317 million in 2020, and we generated $4,232 million in total bookings, up 12.1% from $3,776 million in 2020. 5 Table of Contents Our Customers and Solutions We built GoDaddy to serve our customers by providing simple, easy-to-use cloud-based products on a single technology platform wrapped with personalized guidance. Our Customers We serve several customer populations: Independents, Partners, Domain Registrars and Investors, other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners. While these customer populations tend to utilize many of the same GoDaddy product offerings, there are meaningful differences in their journeys, what they value, their goals and how they communicate with the rest of the world and we aim to establish and provide solutions that address these differences. Our largest customer population, Independents, consists of mostly micro-businesses and noncommercial endeavors. Independents have an entrepreneurial spirit, strong work ethic and, above all, passion for their ideas, yet their specific needs vary depending on the type of their ideas and the phase of their journey. Independents range from individuals who have an initial business idea and those thinking about starting a business, to established ventures needing help attracting customers, growing their sales, managing their online presence or expanding their operations. Most Independents have fewer than five employees and most self-identify as having little to no technology or design skills. These customers need our help to create a unique and secure digital identity, especially with the more technical aspects of their online presence. Although our customers have differing degrees of resources and technical capabilities, they all share a desire to find tools to help them bring their ideas to life, enhance connections with their audience and provide a seamless experience for both existing and new customers. Our second largest customer population, Partners, are website designers and developers who build websites on behalf of businesses and noncommercial organizations. We estimate that half of all global website builds occur through a third party, such as our Partners, on a do-it-for-you basis. Our Partners are often freelancers, moonlighters or teams within website design agencies that often have website design as one of multiple streams of income. Our Partners generally have more technical acumen and look for tools that provide greater amounts of flexibility, such as our WordPress content management system (CMS). Although Partners have a need for technical depth and flexibility, they also benefit from our simplicity and guidance as tools to increase their throughput and maximize the use of their time. We help our Partners in a number of ways beyond our product suite and services, including providing tools to help them save time, make money and exceed client expectations. These client management applications make it easier for designers and developers to manage their clients' websites at any host, or on GoDaddy products such as Managed WordPress. With our products and services, Partners can easily manage their overall business with capabilities such as client billing, administrative access and shopping features, making it easier for them to buy and manage multiple products for their clients, as well as make use of enhanced technical support and discounts for reselling GoDaddy products. We support a variety of control panels and content management tools favored by Partners including cPanel, Plesk, Drupal, Joomla and more. As one of the largest global hosts of WordPress sites, many of our recent investments, including our acquisition of Pagely, a managed WordPress hosting solution, in November 2021, have focused on extending our reach into the WordPress community. Our third largest customer population is Domain Registrars and Investors. Domain registrars are organizations that have their own domain registration offerings, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), but who use our domain registration and management platform. These commercial arrangements provide for strategic relationships with many key platforms, and enable further scale of our domain registration technology and insights. Domain investors are individuals or organizations who manage a portfolio of registered domains for the purpose of selling via secondary markets. These investors bring a unique and valuable resource to our business in the form of liquidity and the ability to help our other populations (Independents and Partners) successfully find a domain name they prefer. We also serve other Registrars and Corporate Domain Portfolio owners. We serve registrars through our registry business (GoDaddy Registry), which provides wholesale generic top level domains (gTLDs) and country-code top level domains (ccTLDs) for registrars to sell to the end customer. These top-level domains (TLDs) provide shorter and better naming alternatives to a .com domain that more closely represent the name of customers' ideas, businesses and brands. We also provide a fully managed registry platform for other registry operators. We manage the full technology and operating stack at scale for over 200 TLDs including some of the largest brands in the world. Corporate Domain Portfolio owners are organizations that maintain and manage a large portfolio of domain names, including general and international domains. These customers are looking for the most powerful, secure and intuitive technology to streamline their processes, unparalleled industry experience and expertise to navigate the complexities of managing a corporate portfolio, and a focused and dedicated team that can provide committed support with the highest levels of security, service and domain management. 6 Table of Contents Our Solutions We have designed and developed an extensive set of easy-to-use cloud-based technology products enabling our customers to establish a digital identity, connect with their customers across multiple social platforms and online marketplaces and deliver a seamless customer experience in a connected commerce world. We understand that our customers' needs vary depending on their type and the stage of their idea, which is why we offer our products both independently and bundled as suites of integrated products designed for specific uses. Crucial to our product philosophy is to provide value well in excess of the price we charge, which often puts our products in a position of strength on functionality while at an affordable cost. Our domain name registration products enable us to engage customers at the initial stage of establishing a digital identity and often are an on-ramp for our other products. We believe our hosting and presence and business applications products significantly improve our value proposition to customers, increase our revenue and margin growth opportunities, can serve as starting points for our customer relationships and improve customer retention. Recognizing our customers' need for cost-effective e-commerce solutions, we acquired Poynt (now known as GoDaddy Payments) in February 2021 and launched our connected commerce offering in September 2021. We believe our payments solutions enable our customers to quickly and easily participate in the digital economy with a seamless transition to offline marketplaces, and position us to expand into new markets and increase our revenue and margin growth opportunities. We have also made significant investments in the localization of our service offerings, as 45% of our customers are located in international markets (notably the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, India and Australia). And, while not a standalone product, our GoDaddy Guides consist of approximately 5,900 specialists worldwide who are available 24/7/365 and provide care to customers who have different levels of technical sophistication. Domains Every great idea needs a great name and GoDaddy is the leading global naming service. Staking a claim on digital identity with a domain name is an integral part of establishing a concept and presence online. When inspiration strikes, we are there to provide our customers with high-quality search, discovery and recommendation tools as well as the broadest selection of domains to help them find the right name for their idea. Securing a domain is a key component to creating a complete digital identity and our domain products often serve as the starting point in our customer relationships. We are a global market leader in domain name registration, with more than 84 million domains under management as of December 31, 2021 and, based on information reported in VeriSign's Domain Name Industry Brief, we held over 23% of the approximately 365 million domain names registered worldwide as of September 30, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 89% of our customers had purchased a domain from us. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we generated approximately 47%, 46% and 45% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our domain products. In addition, GoDaddy Registry provides a high-performance back-end registry technology platform with a portfolio of TLDs including .biz, .co, .in, .nyc, and .us. Our primary domains product offerings are: Primary Registrations . Using our website or mobile application, we offer customers the ability to search for and register available domain names with the applicable registry. Our inventory for primary registrations is defined by the number TLDs we offer. As of December 31, 2021, 419 different generic TLDs, such as .com, .net and .org, and 57 different country code TLDs, such as .de, .ca, .in and .jp., were available for purchase through GoDaddy. Since 2013, hundreds of new gTLDs have been launched through ICANN's "new gTLD program" initiated in 2012 (Expansion Program), making it easier for companies and individuals to find and register new, easy-to-remember domain names tailored to their ideas, industry or interests. ccTLDs are important to our international expansion efforts as we have found international customers often prefer the ccTLD for the country or geographic market in which they operate. Our primary registration offering relies heavily on our search, discovery and recommendation tools which enable our customers to find a name matching their needs. We also sell domain registrations through relationships with third-party resellers and we provide back-end registry services supporting more than 215 TLDs. Aftermarket . We operate a large domain aftermarket platform, which processes aftermarket, or secondary, domain name sales. Our aftermarket platform is designed to enable the seamless purchase and sale of previously registered domain names through an online auction, an offer and counter offer transaction or a "buy now" transaction. We maintain a portfolio of more than 1.2 million previously registered domains, providing a diverse inventory available to our customers. Our GoDaddy Investor mobile application helps investors watch and bid on domains at auction and stay on top of their current bids from their mobile devices. We operate a cross-registrar network that automates transaction execution across registrars thereby reducing the time required to complete a transaction. 7 Table of Contents Domain Name Add-Ons . Domain name add-ons are features typically purchased concurrently with domain name registrations and have low costs associated with their delivery. In addition, where permissible, privacy features are included at no cost with every domain registered with GoDaddy. Domain names with these privacy features are registered on an "unlisted" basis to help protect personal information, deter domain-related spam, and allow our customers to confidentially secure a domain for an unannounced product, service or idea. Registry . GoDaddy Registry is a world-leading provider of domain name registry services. GoDaddy registry operates more than 200 TLDs including country-code TLDs, such as . us and .co, city TLDs such as .nyc and .sy, generic TLDs such as .Club and .Buzz, and branded TLDs such as .Chase and .Fox. Our integrated registry solutions provide policy and operational support, and domain marketing, sales and strategic planning. We also provide back-end registry services supporting more than 215 TLDs. Hosting and Presence Bringing an idea to life online requires a presence. GoDaddy Websites + Marketing, Managed WordPress hosting, GoDaddy Studio (formerly Over) and other GoDaddy offerings are a part of a customer's ubiquitous presence that enable anyone to create a simple, easy-to-use website or e-commerce enabled online store, for both desktop and mobile, with minimal technical skill. Our products, powered by a unified cloud platform, enable our customers to get found online by helping to enhance the information on their website and extending their website and its content to where they need to be, from search engine results (e.g., Google) to social media (e.g., Meta (the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp)) to vertical marketplaces (e.g., Yelp), all from one location. For more technically sophisticated web designers, developers and customers, we provide high-performance, flexible hosting and security products that can be used with a variety of open source design tools as well as Managed WordPress. We design these solutions to be easy to use, effective, reliable, flexible and at a great value. We offer a variety of hosting and presence products enabling our customers to create and manage their digital identity, or in the case of Partners, the digital identities of their end-customers. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we derived approximately 34%, 36% and 38% of our total revenue, respectively, from sales of our hosting and presence products. Our primary hosting products are: Shared Website Hosting . The term "shared hosting" refers to the housing of multiple websites on the same server via the use of chroot environments. Shared hosting is our most popular hosting product. We operate, maintain and support shared website hosting in our owned and operated data centers and our leased co-located data centers using either Linux or Windows operating systems. We currently offer several tiers of website hosting plans to suit the needs and resources of our customers, a majority of which use industry standard cPanel or Parallels Plesk control panels. We also bundle our hosting plans with a variety of applications and products such as web analytics, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates and WordPress. WordPress is the most used content management application on our shared hosting platform. Website Hosting on Virtual Private Servers and Virtual Dedicated Servers . Our broad range of virtual private server (VPS) and virtual dedicated server (VDS) offerings, which run on single bare metal servers, allow our customers to select the server configuration best suited for their applications, requirements and growth. Our VPS solutions provide our customers with a single virtual machine which runs multiple other virtual machines for other customers. Our VPS is designed for customers who need greater control, more advanced technical capabilities and higher performance than that offered by our shared hosting plans. Our VDS solutions offer our customers high-performance server options with isolated resources to run mission-critical applications where latency and uptime matters. Our customers can tailor their VPS or VDS plans based on a range of performance, storage, bandwidth and operating system needs. Managed Hosting . With our managed hosting products, we set up, monitor, maintain, secure and patch software and servers for our customers. We offer a variety of managed hosting plans to support our customers' needs including multiple tiers of Managed WordPress hosting on a platform optimized for WordPress. We also offer other managed environments that span across our VPS and dedicated products like Joomla, Drupal and Magento and apps like Gallery. Security . Our security product portfolio is a comprehensive suite of tools designed to help secure our customers' online presence. The portfolio includes (i) public key infrastructure (PKI) and SSL certificates to help ensure information is secure between browsers and servers through encryption; (ii) the use of a content delivery network (CDN) to improve a website's performance; (iii) a proprietary web application firewall (WAF) to help keep customers' websites safe from hackers; (iv) continuous malware scanning and site cleanups; and (v) a skilled team of security professionals to provide incident responses in the event of a disruption in service. 8 Table of Contents Our primary presence products are: Websites + Marketing . Websites + Marketing is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself, mobile-optimized online tool enabling customers, irrespective of their technical skills, to build effective websites and e-commerce enabled online stores. We offer a variety of plans, with pricing dependent on business and marketing features. With each of these plans, customers have access to industry-targeted professional design templates, which can be further customized using our editor by adding intent-driven sections, photos, videos or text. Our design templates cover a wide range of categories with professionally written con