Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 44 I tem 1C. C ybersecurity 44 Item 2. Properties 45 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 45 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 45 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. [ Reserved ] 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation s 47 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 116 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 116 Item 9B. Other Information 117 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 117 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 117 Item 11. Executive Compensation 117 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 117 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 117 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 117 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 117 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 120 Signatures 121 2 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements might be identified by words, and variations of words, such as will, expect, may, would, could, plan, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, potential, position, forecast, target, guidance, outlook, and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about our business; information related to our business segment portfolios and strategies; human capital management and environmental, social, and governance ( ESG ) strategies and initiatives; financial performance, financial condition, and results of operations, including revenue, revenue growth, profit, taxes, earnings per share, and cash flows; the impacts of macroeconomic and market conditions and volatility on our business operations, financial results, and financial position and on supply chains and the world economy; our strategy, innovation, and investments, including research and development activities; our cost structure; our funding and liquidity; the impacts on our business of manufacturing, sourcing, and supply chain management; the Russia and Ukraine conflict; our operations as a stand-alone company; and risks related to foreign currency exchange, interest rates, and commodity price volatility. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, operating in highly competitive markets; our ability to successfully complete strategic transactions; the actions or inactions of third parties with whom we partner and the various collaboration, licensing, and other partnerships and alliances we have with third parties; demand for our products, services, or solutions and factors that affect that demand; management of our supply chain and our ability to cost-effectively secure the materials we need to operate our business; disruptions in our operations; changes in third-party and government reimbursement processes, rates, contractual relationships, and mix of public and private payers, including related to government shutdowns; our ability to attract and/or retain key personnel and qualified employees; global geopolitical and economic instability, including as a result of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, the conflict in Israel and surrounding areas, and the actions in the Red Sea region; public health crises, epidemics, and pandemics, such as the Coronavirus Disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) and their effects on our business; maintenance and protection of our intellectual property ( IP ) rights, as well as maintenance of successful research and development efforts with respect to commercially successful products and technologies; the impact of potential information technology, cybersecurity, or data security breaches; compliance with the various legal, regulatory, tax, privacy, and other laws to which we are subject, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA ) and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws globally, and related changes, claims, inquiries, investigations, or actions; our ability to control increases in healthcare costs and any subsequent effect on demand for our products, services, or solutions; the impacts related to our increasing focus on and investment in cloud, edge, artificial intelligence ( AI ), and software offerings; the impact of potential product liability claims; ESG matters; our ability to operate effectively as an independent, publicly traded company; and our level of indebtedness, as well as our general ability to comply with covenants under our debt instruments, and any related effect on our business. Please also see the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the United States ( U.S. ) Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and any updates or amendments we make in future filings. There may be other factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider to be immaterial that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements except as required by applicable law or regulation. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. ( GE HealthCare, the Company, our, or we ) is a leading global medical technology, pharmaceutical diagnostics, and digital solutions innovator. We have approximately 51,000 colleagues dedicated to our mission to create a world where healthcare has no limits. We operate at the center of the healthcare ecosystem, enabling precision care by increasing health system capacity, enhancing productivity, digitizing healthcare delivery, and improving clinical outcomes while serving patients demand for greater efficiency, access, and personalized medicine. Our products, services, and solutions are designed to enable clinicians to make more informed decisions quickly and efficiently, improving patient care from diagnosis to therapy to monitoring. We have more than 125 years of experience and one of the strongest reputations in the global healthcare industry, built from our demonstrated record of delivering industry-defining innovation. This is complemented by our broad service capabilities and dedication to quality and integrity with a strong operational culture, deeply embedded in lean continuous improvement. We generate revenue from the sale of medical devices, consumable products, service capabilities, and digital solutions. Precision care is expected to drive continued demand and the need for novel technologies and future innovation, as healthcare providers and researchers seek new solutions and tools for managing existing and new care pathways. The pursuit of precision care opportunities significantly expands our addressable industries to include integrated diagnostics, AI and machine learning-based clinical decision support, highly personalized therapies enabled by more precise diagnostics, and remote patient monitoring. The scale and breadth of our portfolio, combined with our innovation capabilities, position us to be a leading enabler of precision care. GE HealthCare has extensive reach throughout the global healthcare system for medical technology, pharmaceutical diagnostics, and digital solutions, underpinned by resilient, sustainable practices and products, and a commitment to growing access to care. We serve customers in approximately 160 countries with a global team of 9,900 sales professionals, 8,100 field service engineers, and a network of 43 manufacturing, assembly, and pharmaceutical production sites across 17 countries. Our customers are healthcare providers and researchers, including public, private, and academic institutions. We are organized into four business segments that are aligned with the industries we serve: Imaging, Ultrasound, Patient Care Solutions ( PCS ), and Pharmaceutical Diagnostics ( PDx ). Our portfolio of solutions addresses the biggest challenges facing healthcare providers and patients today, including helping to drive better patient outcomes and improved productivity for customers. These qualities foster strong trust, loyalty, and partnership with our global customer base. GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. is a Delaware corporation with corporate headquarters in Chicago, Illinois. On January 3, 2023, the General Electric Company ( GE ) completed the previously announced spin-off of GE HealthCare (the Spin-Off ). Refer to Note 1, Organization and Basis of Presentation for further information regarding the Spin-Off. OUR SEGMENTS We develop, manufacture, and market a broad portfolio of products, services, and complementary digital solutions used in the diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of patients. We have a large, global installed base of medical imaging, ultrasound, and patient monitoring systems. Our business is comprised of four segments: IMAGING. GE HealthCare is a global leader in medical imaging with a comprehensive portfolio of scanning devices, clinical applications, service capabilities, and digital solutions. Our Imaging portfolio spans the care continuum and provides critical tools for physicians, from initial screening and diagnosis, through therapeutic decision-making and monitoring of patient progression. Our products support providers in the delivery of care for a broad spectrum of clinical specialties, including oncology, cardiology, neurology, nuclear medicine, orthopedics, women s health, pediatrics, and surgery. Our Imaging portfolio is comprised of six product lines and associated service capabilities: Molecular Imaging, Computed Tomography, Magnetic Resonance, Image-Guided Therapies, Women s Health, and X-ray. We manage our Molecular Imaging and Computed Tomography product lines together ( MI/CT ) and our Women s Health and X-ray product lines together ( WH/XR ). Molecular imaging ( MI ) enables the visualization, characterization, and quantification of functional processes taking place at the cellular and subcellular levels within patients. The images produced by MI systems allow clinicians to study the cellular and molecular pathways and mechanisms of disease in patients. We offer a complete MI solution from cyclotrons, chemistry synthesis, positron emission tomography ( PET ), computed tomography ( PET/CT ), PET/MR, and nuclear medicine to advanced digital solutions. Our Molecular Imaging team works closely with the PDx segment and their innovations and collaborations with pharmaceutical companies. Computed tomography ( CT ) scans render 3D anatomical images of structures, such as bone, soft tissue, and air cavities using an X-ray tube that rotates around a patient. The images are used in a wide variety of applications, including the detection of tumors or lesions, blocked blood vessels in the brain, abnormal heart conditions, complex bone fractures, and internal injuries from trauma. Our comprehensive Computed Tomography portfolio includes multi-purpose and specialty scanners. 4 Magnetic resonance ( MR ) is a non-invasive imaging technology that produces detailed anatomical images of almost every internal structure in the human body, such as the brain, spinal cord, heart, breast, kidneys, muscles, ligaments, and tendons. MR can also be used for functional imaging, and it is well-suited for disease detection, diagnosis, and treatment monitoring of a variety of conditions, including stroke, cancer, trauma, aneurysm, multiple sclerosis, cardiomyopathy, and congenital disorders. Our Magnetic Resonance portfolio includes scanners for a range of clinical capabilities through different bore sizes, magnetic field strengths, and scalable platforms. Our Image-Guided Therapies business provides technologies that assist clinicians and surgeons during open surgeries and minimally-invasive endovascular procedures. Intraoperative imaging systems are used to visualize procedures that involve implants and devices, such as stents, balloons, pacemakers, and artificial joints. Our Image-Guided Therapies business includes two business lines: interventional systems and surgery systems. Our interventional systems are comprised of a broad portfolio of products that provide real-time advanced X-ray imaging and integrate with other imaging and diagnostic technologies that support clinicians in planning, guiding, and assessing minimally-invasive procedures. Our surgical systems are comprised of a broad portfolio of mobile surgical C-arms that meet the varying clinical and environmental needs for surgical imaging around the world. Women s Health products use X-ray technology to help clinicians screen for and diagnose breast cancer as well as bone and metabolic diseases in women. The product portfolio includes imaging and biopsy positioning systems designed to image the breast and dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scanners designed to image bones with low mineral density. X-ray systems are used by clinicians to perform first-line diagnostic imaging examinations of anatomical structures in the body, such as bones, lungs, and the gastrointestinal tract. Our X-ray product portfolio includes systems for three distinct clinical situations: fixed room radiography products installed in hospitals and imaging centers; mobile radiography products used for bedside or other point-of-care imaging needs; and fluoroscopy products installed in hospitals for dynamic or moving X-ray imaging in applications like gastrointestinal examinations. We also offer a suite of software and applications that help radiology teams improve productivity, address staff shortages, and deliver better patient outcomes. These software solutions and applications are upgradable through the lifecycle of the equipment and are especially beneficial for multi-site, multi-disciplinary networks that have complex operations. We also offer Picture Archiving and Communication Systems and Radiological Information Systems to manage the storage and reporting of radiology images. In addition to our core products, digital solutions, and service offerings, we provide complementary enterprise solutions, such as education and training and data integration services. Our broad enterprise solutions used along the imaging continuum enable us to drive connectivity across healthcare systems and throughout the product lifecycle. ULTRASOUND. GE HealthCare is a global leader in ultrasound medical devices and solutions with a broad portfolio that spans the continuum of care, including screening, diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of certain diseases. Our Ultrasound business focus is on designing solutions that are aligned by specialties or care areas for specific clinical workflows to better serve the unique needs of our customers and improve patient outcomes, while lowering the overall cost of care. We continue to deliver innovative ultrasound probes, consoles, and digital and AI solutions that increase diagnostic accuracy and simplify clinical and operational workflows. Our Ultrasound equipment portfolio, digital and AI solutions, and associated service capabilities serve customers across five clinical areas: Radiology and Primary Care, Women s Health, Cardiovascular, Point of Care and Handheld, and Surgical Visualization and Guidance: Radiology and Primary Care Ultrasound is comprised of systems that produce images to support precise diagnoses and treatment across the whole body, including liver, thyroid, renal, breast, vascular, and transcranial applications. Our systems combine high image quality with comprehensive clinical tools, including measurement quantification, workflow automation, cross-modality networking, portability, and cloud-based technologies. Women s Health Ultrasound is comprised of obstetrics, gynecology, assisted reproductive medicine, and supplemental breast cancer screening. These care areas require specially-designed ultrasound products that account for patient comfort and workflow constraints to enable practitioners to provide higher-quality screening, exams, and procedural care. Cardiovascular Ultrasound is used in the diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of patients with suspected or known heart disease. Diagnostic exams assess the structure and function of the heart. Our Ultrasound solutions are also used for guidance during interventional, electrophysiology, and surgical procedures. Point of Care and Handheld Ultrasound technologies are portable devices that produce high-quality images, whether in a hospital, ambulance, or remote geographic location. Clinicians use our Point of Care and Handheld Ultrasound devices to diagnose, monitor, and treat patients conditions throughout various care pathways to help improve outcomes while also reducing procedure time and required resources. Our portfolio contains consoles, laptops, and handheld devices. 5 Our suite of Surgical Visualization and Guidance products helps surgeons visualize anatomy and lesions, guide interventions, and navigate inside the human body. Intraoperative imaging expands the use of ultrasound beyond diagnostics by providing real-time information throughout surgical procedures that can be used to confirm or amend surgical plans, monitor progress, and validate the execution of a procedure. Each clinical area is supported with our digital and AI Ultrasound solutions that are designed to deliver optimal, simplified, and scalable clinical and operational workflows. They are designed to increase efficiencies that support higher scan volume and billing opportunities by: providing AI-guided ultrasound to help experienced to novice clinicians acquire quality diagnostic images; eliminating keystrokes to shorten exam time; and providing clinical decision support tools. Clinicians are further supported by our broad probe portfolio which includes specialized probes for surgical intervention and transesophageal procedures. Our equipment, digital, and AI solutions are complemented by service offerings that are highly regionalized according to local requirements, varying customer needs, and cross-modality service strategies. PATIENT CARE SOLUTIONS. The Patient Care Solutions business is a leading global provider of medical devices, consumables, services, and digital solutions that acquire and transform complex clinical data into real-time visualization and clinical decision support to ease the way to more confident patient care and improve patient outcomes. Our devices, digital solutions, and service solutions form a broad and integrated portfolio that support patient care needs and care teams within and beyond most acute healthcare environments. Our portfolio is comprised of Patient Monitoring, Anesthesia Delivery and Respiratory Care, Diagnostic Cardiology, Maternal Infant Care, and Consumables and Services connected by and differentiated with our digital solutions. Our flexible Patient Monitoring solutions enable clinicians to flex care based on a patient s acuity and across all the acute care continuum. Our portfolio ranges from spot-check to continuous patient monitoring, including comprehensive multi-parameter monitors; central stations; continuous, wearable, and mobile monitors; transport monitors; cardiac telemetry solutions; spot-check monitors; and visualization, alarm distribution, and care team collaboration solutions. Our Patient Monitoring business includes proprietary parameters and complementary consumables as well as original equipment manufacturer ( OEM ) parameters that are integrated into our monitoring fleet, of which a significant portion represents recurring revenue streams. Anesthesia and Respiratory Care products offer life support solutions via ventilation technology. Products in our Anesthesia portfolio are used by anesthesiologists and nurse anesthetists to ventilate and deliver general anesthetic drugs to patients during surgeries. Our products are installed in many operating rooms, non-operating room anesthesia environments and ambulatory surgical centers across the world. Our respiratory devices are designed to ventilate critically ill patients, generally in ICUs. In Diagnostic Cardiology, we offer electrocardiogram ( ECG or EKG ) solutions, that are usually the first diagnostic tool to detect cardiovascular disease, a leading cause of death across the world. We provide resting ECG devices, stress ECG devices, and ECG management digital solutions, including interpretation algorithms. Our ECG ecosystem obtains, interprets, and stores ECGs captured from devices in both hospital and home settings, supporting patients and clinicians along the continuum of care for cardiology. Our Maternal Infant Care products are used in the labor and delivery department to monitor important maternal and fetal parameters, and in neonatal intensive care to assist in critical care for newborns. Our product portfolio includes neonatal incubators, infant warmers, resuscitation devices, phototherapy equipment, maternal and fetal monitors, and digital offerings, such as maternal and fetal heart rate surveillance software. Our products have added innovation in design, including integrated scales, hands-free alarm silencing, angled radiant heating, and thermoregulation. Our Consumables and Services portfolio consists of approximately 1,000 consumables that are used primarily with our monitoring solutions patient parameters, such as blood pressure, ECG, pulse, temperature, respiratory rate, blood oxygen level, and brain activity, and are used throughout the hospital. Our service offerings are flexible and can range from preventative maintenance to comprehensive, onsite biomedical service engineering contracts. Both our consumables and services provide our customers with ongoing clinical impact and protect their capital investment while providing us with recurring revenue streams. The Patient Care Solutions portfolio also includes digital solutions that provide timely and accurate clinical decision support in acute and other care settings, simplifying clinical and operational workflows to drive efficiencies and improving delivery of precision medicine and patient outcomes. These solutions aggregate and integrate clinical data from various devices across care settings in real time and simplify visualization to guide clinical and operational decisions, enabling efficient care team collaboration, virtually. These solutions are interoperable and vendor-agnostic to integrate with customer environments in a multi-vendor setting and provide a recurring revenue stream. Our broad product and digital solution portfolio is complemented by a comprehensive suite of service offerings, including parts, labor, and training, as well as emerging data, analytics, and networking solutions to aid our customers in improving uptime and efficiency of their medical technology fleets. 6 PHARMACEUTICAL DIAGNOSTICS. GE HealthCare is a leading supplier of diagnostic agents to the global radiology and nuclear medicine industry. These diagnostic agents help clinicians assess patients to enable more precise diagnoses and better therapy selection. We distribute products globally, providing on-time delivery of quality products that help meet patient and procedural needs across a multitude of modalities. PDx s diagnostic agents are complementary to the imaging and ultrasound devices we offer, including CT, angiography and X-ray, MR, single-photon emission computed tomography ( SPECT ) and PET, and are also compatible with systems from other equipment vendors. PDx operates within a strictly regulated industry with unique operational needs. Diagnostic agents require a sophisticated supply chain for manufacturing, supported by a global infrastructure of commercial, marketing, medical affairs, market access, application, regulatory, and pharmacovigilance teams that help monitor products. Customers require timely and reliable supply of diagnostic agents as shortages or delays can be highly disruptive to workflows and even cause exam cancellations. Our PDx business is comprised of two business lines: Contrast Media and Molecular Imaging. Contrast media are pharmaceuticals that are administered to a patient prior to certain diagnostic scans in order to increase the visibility of tissues or structures during imaging exams. Contrast media increase the diagnostic value of imaging and can be critical in the visualization of small or nuanced areas of diagnostic interest, such as cancer lesions or vascular structures, and to plan medical interventions, such as angioplasties, biopsies, or radiation therapy. We offer contrast media to three imaging modality groups: (1) CT, angiography, and X-ray, (2) MR, and (3) Ultrasound. Our Contrast Media business also includes contrast injection devices that are automated devices used to monitor and control the injection of contrast into patients, providing valuable productivity benefits in the imaging suite. We offer contrast injectors through collaborations with third-party original equipment manufacturers. Molecular imaging agents, or radiopharmaceuticals, are molecular tracers labeled with radioisotopes that are injected into a patient prior to a diagnostic imaging scan. These agents work by accumulating in an area of diagnostic interest, such as a tumor, and emitting energy that is detected by a SPECT or PET scanner. Because they have specific molecular targets, they allow visualization and assessment of cell function, providing a more detailed dimension of biological activity. Our radiopharmaceuticals support diagnosis and therapy selection in various care areas, such as neurology, cardiology, and oncology, and are also used by pharmaceutical companies and researchers in selecting target populations for clinical trials. Our strong portfolio of diagnostic agents and advanced global supply chain, combined with our imaging, cyclotron, and advanced visualization software, positions our Company to grow in existing markets as well as emerging adjacencies. ACQUISITIONS Our business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that expand or complement our existing business. Refer to Note 8, Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Other Intangible Assets for information about our acquisitions. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES Our research and development ( R D ) efforts focus on creating new products and solutions, developing new applications for products, and enhancing our existing products to help improve outcomes for customers and their patients. We employ approximately 10,300 engineers and scientists worldwide, including hardware, systems, and software engineers and personnel focused on clinical research. We engage in and sponsor clinical research and product development through collaborations with universities, medical centers, and other organizations. We occasionally enter into agreements with third parties related to collaboration on R D activities associated with the development of new or innovative products. See Note 18, Supplemental Financial Information for further information. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We have a substantial portfolio of IP. We rely on a combination of patent, design, utility model, trademark, copyright, trade secret and regulatory exclusivity period protections, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our IP. Our IP team collaborates with our R D and product teams to develop product-line-focused IP strategies and secure IP rights as appropriate. We generally file patent applications in the United States and foreign countries that have strong technology patent protections. We also license from third parties a variety of IP that complements our internal R D efforts and our product offerings. While, in aggregate, our patents and other IP are vital to our operations, we do not consider any single IP asset or group of assets to be of material importance to any segment or to the business as a whole; rather, we believe understanding our customers needs, technology expertise, and manufacturing know-how are critical for our business. We rely on confidentiality agreements with colleagues, contractors, consultants, and third parties to help protect our trade secrets, proprietary technology, and other confidential information. We also monitor development and commercialization activities of third parties so our IP rights are not infringed upon. In addition, we make infrastructure investments to secure our IP assets and conduct audits to assess the effectiveness of our IP protection program. 7 We believe that invention leads to value for our customers and stakeholders, and that a culture of innovation across GE HealthCare is a core element of our business. As part of the Spin-Off from GE, we secured IP specific to our business, and GE granted us a license to use other IP required for our business of which GE retained ownership. We also entered into a long-term trademark license with GE that enables GE HealthCare to continue building upon our brand. COMPETITORS The global medical technology industry is highly competitive and comprised of global and regional participants of all sizes that can vary by product line. Because of the diversity of our products and offerings, we face a wide variety of competitors, including a broad range of manufacturers, third-party distributors, and service providers. In the industries we serve, we believe our primary global competitors include Siemens Healthineers, Philips Healthcare, Canon, Mindray, and United Imaging, among others. In our PDx business segment, we primari