Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 24 I tem 1C. Cybersecurity 24 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 36 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 37 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 37 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 37 Item 9B. Other Information 37 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 37 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 38 Item 11. Executive Compensation 38 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 38 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 38 Item 14. Principal Account ant Fees and Services 38 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 39 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 77 Signatures 78 Gen, we, us, our, and the Company refer to Gen Digital Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. Gen, Norton, Avast, LifeLock, Avira, AVG, ReputationDefender, CCleaner and all related trademarks, service marks and trade names are trademarks or registered trademarks of Gen or other respective owners that have granted Gen the right to use such marks. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners. 3 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include statements that represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including, without limitation, references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, goal, intent, momentum, projects, forecast, outlook, strategy, future, opportunity, plan, may, should, will, would, will be, and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance; anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries; the consummation of or anticipated impacts of acquisitions (including our ability to achieve synergies from acquisitions, including Avast), divestitures, restructurings, stock repurchases, financings, debt repayments and investment activities; the outcome or impact of pending litigation, claims or disputes; our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; plans for and anticipated benefits of our products and solutions; anticipated tax rates, benefits and expenses; the impact of inflation, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in interest rates, ongoing and new geopolitical conflicts, and other global macroeconomic factors on our operations and financial performance; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including economic recessions, inflationary pressures and those other factors that we discuss in