Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 13 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 29 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 43 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 90 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 90 Item 9B Other Information 92 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11 Executive Compensation 92 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 92 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 92 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 95 SIGNATURES 96 We own or have rights to various trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the following: GILEAD , GILEAD SCIENCES , AMBISOME , ATRIPLA , BIKTARVY , CAYSTON , COMPLERA , DESCOVY , DESCOVY FOR PREP , EMTRIVA , EPCLUSA , EVIPLERA , GENVOYA , HARVONI , HEPSERA , LETAIRIS , ODEFSEY , RANEXA , SOVALDI , STRIBILD , TRUVADA , TRUVADA FOR PREP , TYBOST , VEMLIDY , VIREAD , VOSEVI , YESCARTA and ZYDELIG . LEXISCAN is a registered trademark of Astellas U.S. LLC. MACUGEN is a registered trademark of Bausch Health Ireland Limited. SYMTUZA is a registered trademark of Janssen Sciences Ireland UC. TAMIFLU is a registered trademark of Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. This report also refers to trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Words such as expect, anticipate, target, goal, project, hope, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, continue, may, could, should, might, "forecast," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding overall trends, operating cost and revenue trends, liquidity and capital needs and other statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various reasons, including those identified in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we do not undertake, and specifically decline, any obligation to update any of these statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, our or us), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a research-based biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need. With each new discovery and investigational drug candidate, we strive to transform and simplify care for people with life-threatening illnesses around the world. We have operations in more than 35 countries worldwide, with headquarters in Foster City, California. Gilead s primary areas of focus include viral diseases, inflammatory and fibrotic diseases and oncology . We seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs, product acquisition, in-licensing and strategic collaborations. Our Principal Products Our innovative medicines represent advancements by offering enhanced modes of delivery, more convenient treatment regimens, improved resistance profiles, reduced side effects and greater efficacy. Our focus on innovation has allowed us to deliver more than 24 marketed products across multiple therapeutic areas. Our principal products and the approved indications in the United States are as follows: HIV/AIDS Biktarvy is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Biktarvy is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, bictegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF). Descovy is an oral formulation indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Descovy is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, emtricitabine and TAF. Descovy is also approved by U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for a pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) indication to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in certain at-risk patients. Odefsey is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Odefsey is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, emtricitabine and TAF, and rilpivirine marketed by Janssen Sciences Ireland UC, one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson Johnson (Janssen). Genvoya is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Genvoya is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medicines, elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and TAF. Stribild is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Stribild is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, elvitegravir, cobicistat, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) and emtricitabine. Complera /Eviplera is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. The product, marketed in the United States as Complera and in Europe as Eviplera, is a single tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine, and Janssen s rilpivirine hydrochloride. Atripla is an oral formulation indicated as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Atripla is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine, and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) s efavirenz. Truvada is an oral formulation indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. It is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine. Truvada is also approved by FDA for a PrEP indication, in combination with safer sex practices, to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in certain at-risk patients. Liver Diseases Vosevi is an oral formulation of a once-daily, single tablet regimen of sofosbuvir, velpatasvir and voxilaprevir for the re-treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in adults: (i) with genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 previously treated with an NS5A inhibitor-containing regimen or (ii) with genotype 1a or 3 previously treated with a sofosbuvir-containing regimen without an NS5A inhibitor. Epclusa is an oral formulation of a once-daily single tablet regimen of sofosbuvir and velpatasvir for the treatment of chronic HCV infection in adults with genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6: (i) without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis or (ii) with decompensated cirrhosis for use in combination with ribavirin. Harvoni is an oral formulation of a once-daily, single tablet regimen of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir for the treatment of chronic HCV infection in: (i) adults with genotype 1, 4, 5 or 6 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis, (ii) adults with genotype 1 infection with decompensated cirrhosis, in combination with ribavirin, (iii) adults with genotype 1 or 4 3 who are liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis, in combination with ribavirin, or (iv) certain pediatric patients with genotype 1, 4, 5 or 6 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis. Vemlidy is an oral formulation of TAF dosed once a day for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in adults with compensated liver disease. Viread is an oral formulation of TDF dosed once a day for the treatment of chronic HBV infection in adults and certain pediatric patients. Hematology/Oncology Yescarta (axicabtagene ciloleucel) is a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) not otherwise specified, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, high-grade B-cell lymphoma and DLBCL arising from follicular lymphoma. Zydelig (idelalisib) is an oral formulation of a kinase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with: (i) relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), in combination with rituximab, for whom rituximab alone would be considered appropriate therapy due to other co-morbidities, (ii) relapsed follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (FL) in patients who have received at least two prior systemic therapies or (iii) relapsed small lymphocytic lymphoma who have received at least two prior systemic therapies. Other Letairis (ambrisentan) is an oral formulation of an endothelin receptor antagonist for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group I) (i) to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening or (ii) in combination with tadalafil to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for worsening PAH, and to improve exercise ability. Ranexa (ranolazine) is an oral formulation of an extended-release tablet of an antianginal for the treatment of chronic angina. AmBisome (amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent, for the treatment of serious invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species in adults. For information about our product revenues, including the amount of revenue contributed by each of the products listed above for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 2 . Revenues of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K . Commercialization and Distribution We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in more than 35 countries. Our products are marketed through our commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third-party distributors and corporate partners. Our commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third-party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a territory for a specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory. We sell and distribute most of our products in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. Our product sales to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation, each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . On a combined basis, in 2019 , these wholesalers accounted for approximately 87% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 64% of our total worldwide revenues. We sell and distribute our products in Europe and countries outside the United States where the product is approved, either through our commercial teams, third-party distributors or corporate partners. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. We face significant competition from global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialized pharmaceutical firms and generic drug manufacturers. Our products compete with other commercially available products based primarily on efficacy, safety, tolerability, acceptance by doctors, ease of patient compliance, ease of use, price, insurance and other reimbursement coverage, distribution and marketing. As our products mature, private insurers and government payers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. Further, as new branded or generic products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected. For a description of our competitors, see