Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 17 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 [Reserved] 33 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 47 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 98 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 100 Item 9B Other Information 100 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 100 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 100 Item 11 Executive Compensation 101 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 101 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 101 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 101 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 104 SIGNATURES 105 We own or have rights to various trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the following: GILEAD , GILEAD SCIENCES , AMBISOME , ATRIPLA , BIKTARVY , CAYSTON , COMPLERA , DESCOVY , DESCOVY FOR PREP , EMTRIVA , EPCLUSA , EVIPLERA , GENVOYA , HARVONI , HEPCLUDEX (BULEVIRTIDE), HEPSERA , JYSELECA (FILGOTINIB), LETAIRIS , ODEFSEY , RANEXA , SOVALDI , STRIBILD , TECARTUS , TRODELVY , TRUVADA , TRUVADA FOR PREP , TYBOST , VEKLURY , VEMLIDY , VIREAD , VOSEVI , YESCARTA and ZYDELIG . This report also refers to trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). Words such as expect, anticipate, target, goal, project, hope, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, continue, may, could, should, might, forecast, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding overall trends; operating cost and revenue trends; liquidity and capital needs; plans and expectations with respect to products, product candidates, corporate strategy, business and operations, financial projections and the use of capital; collaboration and licensing arrangements; ongoing litigation and investigation matters; statements regarding the anticipated future impact on our business of the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) and related public health measures; and other statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various reasons, including those identified in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof unless otherwise specified. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), we do not undertake, and specifically decline, any obligation to update any of these statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the risks described in the section entitled Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks contained herein could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Gilead Sciences, Inc. ( Gilead, we, our or us ) is a biopharmaceutical company that has pursued and achieved breakthroughs in medicine for more than three decades, with the goal of creating a healthier world for all people. We are committed to advancing innovative medicines to prevent and treat life-threatening diseases, including HIV, viral hepatitis and cancer. We operate in more than 35 countries worldwide, with headquarters in Foster City, California. Our Business Products Our innovative medicines represent advancements by offering first-in-class treatments, greater efficacy, enhanced modes of delivery, more convenient treatment regimens, improved resistance profiles and reduced side effects. Our focus on innovation has allowed us to deliver marketed products across multiple therapeutic areas. In 2021, our primary revenue-generating products and the approved indications in the United States were as follows: HIV/AIDS Biktarvy is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Biktarvy is a single-tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, bictegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide ( TAF ). Genvoya is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Genvoya is a single-tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medicines, elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine and TAF. Descovy is an oral formulation indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Descovy is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, emtricitabine and TAF. Descovy is also approved by U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) for a pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) indication to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in certain at-risk patients. Odefsey is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Odefsey is a single-tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, emtricitabine and TAF, and rilpivirine marketed by Janssen Sciences Ireland Unlimited Company, one of the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson Johnson ( Janssen ). Truvada is an oral formulation indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Truvada is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( TDF ) and emtricitabine. Truvada is also approved by FDA for a PrEP indication to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in certain at-risk patients. Complera /Eviplera is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. The product, marketed in the United States as Complera and in Europe as Eviplera, is a single-tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine, and Janssen s rilpivirine hydrochloride. Stribild is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Stribild is a single-tablet regimen of a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, elvitegravir, cobicistat, TDF and emtricitabine. Atripla is an oral formulation indicated as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in certain patients. Atripla is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, TDF and emtricitabine, and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company ( BMS ) s efavirenz. COVID-19 Veklury (remdesivir), an injection for intravenous use, is a nucleotide analog RNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) in certain adults and children 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 88 pounds (40 kg) who are (i) hospitalized or (ii) not hospitalized and have mild-to-moderate COVID-19, and are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death*. *This indication received expedited approval by FDA in January 2022. 3 Liver Diseases Epclusa is an oral formulation of a once-daily single-tablet regimen of sofosbuvir and velpatasvir for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) infection in adults and certain pediatric patients with genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6: (i) without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis or (ii) with decompensated cirrhosis for use in combination with ribavirin. In addition, we have an authorized generic version of Epclusa distributed by our separate subsidiary, Asegua Therapeutics LLC. Harvoni is an oral formulation of a once-daily, single-tablet regimen of ledipasvir and sofosbuvir for the treatment of chronic HCV infection in: (i) adults with genotype 1, 4, 5 or 6 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis, (ii) adults with genotype 1 with decompensated cirrhosis, in combination with ribavirin, (iii) adults with genotype 1 or 4 who are liver transplant recipients without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis, in combination with ribavirin, or (iv) certain pediatric patients with genotype 1, 4, 5 or 6 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis. In addition, we have an authorized generic version of Harvoni distributed by our separate subsidiary, Asegua Therapeutics LLC. Vosevi is an oral formulation of a once-daily, single-tablet regimen of sofosbuvir, velpatasvir and voxilaprevir for the re-treatment of chronic HCV infection in adults: (i) with genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 previously treated with an NS5A inhibitor-containing regimen or (ii) with genotype 1a or 3 previously treated with a sofosbuvir-containing regimen without an NS5A inhibitor. Vemlidy is an oral formulation of TAF dosed once a day for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection in adults with compensated liver disease. Viread is an oral formulation of TDF dosed once a day for the treatment of chronic HBV infection in adults and certain pediatric patients. Hematology/Oncology/Cell Therapy Yescarta (axicabtagene ciloleucel), a suspension for intravenous infusion, is a chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) T-cell therapy for the treatment of (i) adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) not otherwise specified, primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma, high-grade B-cell lymphoma and DLBCL arising from follicular lymphoma, and (ii) adult patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma ( FL ) after two or more lines of systemic therapy*. *This indication is approved under accelerated approval by FDA, and continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. Tecartus (brexucabtagene autoleucel), a suspension for intravenous infusion, is a CAR T cell therapy for the treatment of (i) adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma ( MCL ) and (ii) adult patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ). Trodelvy (sacituzumab govitecan-hziy), an injection for intravenous use, is a Trop-2 directed antibody and topoisomerase inhibitor conjugate indicated for the treatment of (i) adult patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) who have received two or more prior systemic therapies, at least one of them for metastatic disease, and (ii) adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer who have previously received a platinum-containing chemotherapy and either programmed death receptor-1 ( PD-1 ) or programmed death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) inhibitor*. *This indication is approved under accelerated approval by FDA, and continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. Zydelig (idelalisib) is an oral formulation of a kinase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia, in combination with rituximab, for whom rituximab alone would be considered appropriate therapy due to other co-morbidities. Other Letairis (ambrisentan) is an oral formulation of an endothelin receptor antagonist for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) (WHO Group I) (i) to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening or (ii) in combination with tadalafil to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for worsening PAH, and to improve exercise ability. Ranexa (ranolazine) is an oral formulation of an extended-release tablet of an antianginal for the treatment of chronic angina. AmBisome (amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent, for the treatment of serious invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species in adults. 4 For information about our revenue-generating products, including the amount of revenue contributed by the products listed above, see Note 2. Revenues of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenue Share and Other Revenues We also generate revenues from other activities, including revenue share from combination products, royalties for outbound licenses of our intellectual property and other payments received from our collaborations with third-party partners. For example, pursuant to our collaboration with Janssen, we receive revenue share from cobicistat, emtricitabine and TAF that are components of Symtuza (darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/TAF), a fixed-dose combination product commercialized by Janssen. We include our revenue share from Symtuza in our Product sales. For a description of our collaborations with Janssen and other partners, see Note 11. Collaborations and Other Arrangements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Commercialization and Distribution We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in more than 35 countries. Our products are marketed through our commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third-party distributors and corporate partners. Our commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third-party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a territory for a specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory. We sell and distribute most of our products in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. During the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 91% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 65% of our total worldwide revenues were to three large wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation. We sell and distribute our products in Europe and countries outside the United States where the product is approved, either through our commercial teams, third-party distributors or corporate partners. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment. We face significant competition from global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialized pharmaceutical firms and generic drug manufacturers. Our products compete with other commercially available products based primarily on efficacy, safety, tolerability, acceptance by doctors, ease of patient compliance, ease of use, price, insurance and other reimbursement coverage, distribution and marketing. As our products mature, pricing pressures from private insurers and government payers often result in a reduction of the net product prices. Further, as new branded or generic products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected. Research and Development Our research and development ( R D ) mission is to discover and develop transformational therapies in areas of high unmet medical need. Our product development efforts are focused primarily in viral diseases, inflammatory diseases and oncology. Our team of research scientists is engaged in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies that we hope will lead to the approval of innovative medicines and therapies that will advance the current standard of care and address unmet medical needs. We intend to continue committing significant resources to internal R D opportunities and external business development activity to drive innovation and growth of our business. The development of product candidates and investigational therapies in our pipeline is subject to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials, including on account of clinical holds placed by regulatory authorities, or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain regulatory approvals. As a result, our product candidates and investigational therapies may never be successfully commercialized. Drug development is inherently risky, and many product candidates and investigational therapies fail during the development process. In 2021, we continued to invest in and advance our R D pipeline across our therapeutic areas. Below is a summary of our product candidates that were in Phase 3 or registrational Phase 2 clinical trials or pending marketing authorization review by FDA or European Medicines Agency ( EMA ) as of the end of 2021. 5 Product Candidates in Viral Diseases Product Candidates Description Regulatory Filings Lenacapavir A New Drug Application and a Marketing Authorization Application have been filed with FDA and EMA, respectively, for lenacapavir, an HIV capsid inhibitor, as a component of a long-acting regimen for the treatment of HIV infection in heavily treatment-experienced people living with HIV. It has been granted Breakthrough Therapy designation by FDA for this indication. Bulevirtide A Biologics License Application has been filed with FDA for bulevirtide for the treatment of chronic hepatitis delta virus ( HDV ) infection. It has been granted both Orphan Drug and Breakthrough Therapy designations by FDA for this indication. In Europe, Hepcludex (bulevirtide) has been granted Conditional Marketing Authorization by the European Commission and PRIority MEdicines (PRIME) scheme eligibility by the EMA as the first approved treatment in adults with chronic HDV infection with compensated liver disease. Phase 3 Lenacapavir Lenacapavir is being evaluated for an HIV PrEP indication. Program timeline is pending resolution of clinical hold placed by FDA on studies evaluating injectable lenacapavir. Product Candidates in Inflammatory Diseases Product Candidate Description Phase 3 Cilofexor Cilofexor, an FXR agonist, is being evaluated for the treatment of primary sclerosing cholangitis. Filgotinib Filgotinib, a JAK1 inhibitor, is being evaluated for the treatment of Crohn s disease. Product Candidates in Oncology Product Candidates Description Regulatory Filings Yescarta (axicabtagene ciloleucel) A supplemental Biologics License Application and a Type II Variation Marketing Authorization Application have been filed with FDA and EMA, respectively, for axicabtagene ciloleucel, a CAR T cell therapy for the treatment of second-line DLBCL. A Type II Variation Marketing Authorization Application has been filed with EMA for axicabtagene ciloleucel for the treatment of relapsed or refractory FL. Yescarta has received accelerated approval by FDA for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory FL after two or more lines of systemic therapy. Tecartus (brexucabtagene autoleucel) A Type II Variation Marketing Authorization Application has been filed with EMA for brexucabtagene autoleucel, a CAR T cell therapy, for the treatment of adult ALL. Tecartus has received FDA approval for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL. Phase 3 Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy, a Trop-2 directed antibody and topoisomerase inhibitor conjugate, is being evaluated for (i) hormone receptor positive ( HR+ ), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative ( HER2- ), metastatic breast cancer and (ii) non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) as a second-line or third-line treatment. Magrolimab Magrolimab, an anti-CD47, is being evaluated for (i) higher risk myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) as a first-line treatment and (ii) acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) as a first-line treatment. Program timelines are pending resolution of partial clinical holds placed by FDA on studies evaluating magrolimab. Zimberelimab* Zimberelimab, an anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody, is being evaluated for NSCLC as a first-line treatment. Domvanalimab* Domvanalimab, an Fc-silent anti-TIGIT antibody, is being evaluated for NSCLC as a first-line treatment. Registrational Phase 2 Brexucabtagene autoleucel Brexucabtagene autoleucel is being evaluated for the treatment of pediatric ALL. 6 *In collaboration with Arcus Biosciences, Inc. ( Arcus ). See Note 11. Collaborations and Other Arrangements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding this collaboration. In 2021, we also received regulatory approvals or authorizations from FDA and the European Commission to expand the indications of our products, including: Product Regulatory Approval or Authorization Biktarvy FDA approved a new low-dose tablet dosage form of Biktarvy for pediatric patients weighing at least 14 kg to less than 25 kg who are virologically suppressed or new to antiretroviral therapy. Epclusa FDA approved an expansion of the pediatric indication of Epclusa for the treatment of chronic HCV infection to include pediatric patients 3 years of age and older, regardless of HCV genotype or liver disease severity. Veklury European Commission approved a variation to the Conditional Marketing Authorization for Veklury to include adults who do not require supplemental oxygen and are at an increased risk of progressing to severe COVID-19. Yescarta FDA granted accelerated approval of Yescarta for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory FL. Tecartus FDA approved Tecartus for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL. Trodelvy FDA granted full approval of Trodelvy for adult patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic TNBC. FDA granted accelerated approval of Trodelvy for use in adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic UC. European Commission granted marketing authorization for Trodelvy as a monotherapy indicated for the treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic TNBC who have received two or more prior systemic therapies, at least one of them for advanced disease. In addition, we seek to enhance our commercial portfolio and clinical pipeline across multiple therapeutic areas through acquisitions, in-licensing and strategic collaborations. For example, in October 2021, we entered into a clinical trial collaboration with Merck Sharp Dohme, Corp., a subsidiary of Merck Co., Inc. ( Merck ), to evaluate Trodelvy in combination with Merck s Keytruda in patients with first-line metastatic TNBC. In November 2021, we expanded our research collaboration with Arcus and exercised our options to three programs in Arcus s clinical-stage portfolio, including domvanalimab, which is in Phase 2 and 3 studies in NSCLC. Our strategic business development activity reflects our commitment to focus on transformative science, build a sustainable and diverse portfolio and position ourselves for the near-, medium- and long-term growth of our business. Patents and Proprietary Rights U.S. and European Patent Expiration We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. The following table shows the estimated expiration dates (including patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and/or pediatric exclusivity where granted) in the United States and the European Union for the primary (typically compound) patents for our key product candidates as described above. For our product candidates that are fixed-dose combinations of single-tablet regimens, the estimated patent expiration date provided corresponds to the latest expiring compound patent for one of the active ingredients in the single-tablet regimen. 7 Key Product Candidates Patent Expiration U.S. E.U. Viral Diseases: Lenacapavir 2037 2037 Bulevirtide 2030 2029 Inflammatory Diseases: Cilofexor 2032 2032 Filgotinib 2030 2030 Oncology: Axicabtagene ciloleucel 2031 (1) Brexucabtagene autoleucel 2027 (1) Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy 2023 (2) 2029 Magrolimab 2031 2031 Zimberelimab (3) 2036 2036 Domvanalimab (3) 2037 2036 _______________________________ (1) The composition of matter patent has expired in the European Union. In the European Union and the United States, patent applications are pending relating to proprietary manufacturing processes of Kite, a Gilead company ( Kite ). (2) An application for patent term extension was filed in the United States that, if granted, would extend the U.S. expiration date to at least 2028. Regulatory exclusivity in the United States expires in 2032. (3) In collaboration with Arcus. The following table shows the actual or estimated expiration dates (including patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates and/or pediatric exclusivity where granted) in the United States and the European Union for the primary (typically compound) patents for our principal products. For our products that are fixed-dose combinations or single-tablet regimens, the estimated patent expiration dates provided correspond to the latest expiring compound patent for one of the active ingredients in the single-tablet regimen. Products Patent Expiration U.S. E.U. Ranexa 2019 (1) 2023 Descovy 2025 2026 Vemlidy 2025 2026 Complera/Eviplera 2025 2026 Zydelig 2025 (2) 2029 Odefsey 2025 2026 Yescarta 2031 (3) Stribild 2029 (4) 2028 Genvoya 2029 (4) 2028 Harvoni 2030 2030 Epclusa 2033 2032 Biktarvy 2033 2033 Vosevi 2034 2033 Veklury 2035 2035 Tecartus 2027 (3) Trodelvy 2023 (5) 2029 Jyseleca 2030 2030 Hepcludex 2030 2029 These estimated expiration dates do not include any potential additional exclusivity (e.g., patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates or pediatric exclusivity) that has not yet been granted. ______________________________ (1) In 2013, Gilead and Lupin Limited reached an agreement to settle a patent litigation matter related to Ranexa. (2) Applications for patent term extensions are pending in the United States and/or SPCs are pending in one or more countries in the European Union for these products. (3) The composition of matter patent has expired in the European Union. In the European Union and the United States, patent applications are pending relating to proprietary manufacturing processes of Kite. (4) In 2018, Gilead and Mylan Pharmaceuticals reached an agreement to settle the patent litigation concerning patents that protect cobicistat in our Stribild and Genvoya products. (5) An application for patent term extension was filed in the United States that, if granted, would extend the U.S. expiration date to at least 2028. Regulatory exclusivity in the United States expires in 2032. 8 Patent Protection and Certain Challenges Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. If we have a properly drafted and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. Patents covering certain of the active pharmaceutical ingredients ( API ) of most of our HIV products as well as cell therapy products are held by third parties. We acquired exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we have with these parties. We may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained. Because patents have a limited life that may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions or supplementary protection certificate