Item 1. Business General Corning traces its origins to a glass business established in 1851. The present corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936. The Company s name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28, 1989. Corning Incorporated is a leading innovator in materials science. For more than 165 years, Corning has combined its unparalleled expertise in glass science, ceramic science, and optical physics with deep manufacturing and engineering capabilities to develop category-defining products that transform industries and enhance people s lives. We succeed through sustained investment in research and development, a unique combination of material and process innovation, and deep, trust-based relationships with customers who are global leaders in their industries. Corning s capabilities are versatile and synergistic, allowing the company to evolve to meet changing market needs, while also helping our customers capture new opportunities in dynamic industries. Today, Corning s markets include optical communications, mobile consumer electronics, display technology, automotive emissions control and glass products and life sciences vessels. Corning s industry-leading products include damage-resistant cover glass for mobile devices; precision glass for advanced displays; optical fiber, wireless technologies, and connectivity solutions for state-of-the-art communications networks; trusted products to accelerate drug discovery and delivery; and clean-air technologies for cars and trucks. Corning operates in five reportable segments: Display Technologies, Optical Communications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences, and manufactures products at 116 plants in 15 countries. Display Technologies Segment Corning s Display Technologies segment manufactures glass substrates for high-performance displays, including organic light-emitting diode ( OLEDs ) and liquid crystal displays ( LCDs ) that are used primarily in televisions, notebook computers and flat panel desktop monitors. This segment develops, manufactures and supplies high quality glass substrates using technology expertise and a proprietary fusion manufacturing process, which Corning invented and is the cornerstone of the Company s technology leadership in the display glass industry. Our highly automated process yields glass substrates with a pristine surface and excellent thermal dimensional stability and uniformity essential attributes in the production of large, high-performance display panels. Corning s fusion process is scalable and we believe it is the most cost-effective process in producing large size substrates. 2020 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 2 Index We are recognized for providing product innovations that enable our customers to produce larger, lighter, thinner and higher-resolution displays. Some of the product innovations we have launched over the past ten years utilizing our world-class processes and capabilities include the following: Corning EAGLE XG Slim Glass, a line of thin glass substrates which enables lighter-weight portable devices and thinner televisions and monitors; Corning IRIS Glass, a light-guide plate solution which enables televisions and monitors to be less the 5-mm thick; The family of Corning LOTUS Glass, high-performance display glass developed to enable cutting-edge technologies, OLEDs and next generation LCDs. These substrate glasses provide industry-leading levels of low total pitch variation, resulting in brighter, more energy-efficient displays with higher resolutions for consumers and better yields for panel makers; The world s first Gen 10 and Gen 10.5 glass substrates in support of improved efficiency in manufacturing large-sized televisions; and Astra Glass , an optimized glass solution to meet the emerging needs for future high-resolution displays. These substrate glasses enable higher-resolution oxide displays for consumers. Corning has display glass manufacturing operations in South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and China, and services all its glass customers in all regions directly, utilizing its manufacturing facilities throughout Asia. Patent protection and proprietary trade secrets are important to the Display Technologies segment s operations. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for information relating to patents and trademarks. The Display Technologies segment represented 28% of Corning s segment net sales in 2019. Optical Communications Segment Corning invented the world s first low-loss optical fiber in 1970. Since that milestone, we have continued to pioneer optical fiber, cable and connectivity solutions. As global bandwidth demand driven by video usage grows exponentially, telecommunications networks continue to migrate from copper to optical-based systems that can deliver the required cost-effective bandwidth-carrying capacity. Our experience puts us in a unique position to design and deliver optical solutions that reach every edge of the communications network. This segment is classified into two main product groupings carrier network and enterprise network. The carrier network group consists primarily of products and solutions for optical-based communications infrastructure for services such as video, data and voice communications. The enterprise network group consists primarily of optical-based communication networks sold to businesses, governments and individuals for their own use. Our carrier network product portfolio encompasses an array of optical fiber products, including Vascade submarine optical fibers for use in submarine networks; LEAF optical fiber for long-haul, regional and metropolitan networks; SMF-28 ULL fiber for more scalable long-haul and regional networks; SMF-28e+ single-mode optical fiber that provides additional transmission wavelengths in metropolitan and access networks; ClearCurve ultra-bendable single-mode fiber for use in multiple-dwelling units and fiber-to-the-home applications; and Corning SMF-28 Ultra Fiber, designed for high performance across the range of long-haul, metro, access, fiber-to-the-home network applications, combining the benefits of industry-leading attenuation and improved macrobend performance in one fiber. A portion of our optical fiber is sold directly to end users and third-party cablers globally. Corning s remaining fiber production is cabled internally and sold to end users as either bulk cable or as part of an integrated optical solution. Corning s cable products support various outdoor, indoor/outdoor and indoor applications and include a broad range of loose tube, ribbon and drop cable designs with flame-retardant versions available for indoor and indoor/outdoor use including 5G networks. 2020 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 3 Index In addition to optical fiber and cable, our carrier network product portfolio also includes hardware and equipment products, including cable assemblies, fiber-optic hardware, fiber-optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures, network interface devices, and other accessories. These products may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical connectivity solutions designed for various carrier network applications. Examples of these solutions include our FlexNAP TM terminal distribution system, which provides pre-connectorized distribution and drop cable assemblies for cost-effectively deploying fiber-to-the-home ( FTTH ) and 5G networks; and the Centrix TM platform, which provides a high-density fiber management system with industry-leading density and innovative jumper routing that can be deployed in a wide variety of carrier switching centers. To keep pace with surging demand for mobile bandwidth, Corning has a full complement of operator-grade distributed antenna systems ( DAS ), including the recently developed Optical Network Evolution wireless platform. The ONE Wireless Platform ( ONE ) is the first all-optical converged cellular and Wi-Fi solution built on an all-optical backbone with modular service support. It provides virtually unlimited bandwidth, and meets all wireless service needs of large-scale enterprises at a lower cost than the typical DAS solution. In addition to our optical-based portfolio, Corning s carrier network portfolio also contains select copper-based products including subscriber demarcation, connection and protection devices, xDSL (different variations of digital subscriber lines) passive solutions and outside plant enclosures. In addition, Corning offers coaxial RF interconnects for the cable television industry as well as microwave applications for GPS, radars, satellites, manned and unmanned military vehicles, wireless applications and telecommunications systems. Our enterprise network portfolio also includes optical fiber products, including ClearCurve ultra-bendable multimode fiber for private and hyperscale data centers and other enterprise network applications; InfiniCor fibers for local area networks; and more recently ClearCurve VSDN ultra-bendable optical fiber designed to support emerging high-speed interconnects between computers and other consumer electronics devices. The remainder of Corning s fiber production is cabled internally and sold to end users as either bulk cable or as part of an integrated optical solution. Corning s cable products include a broad range of tight-buffered, loose tube and ribbon cable designs with flame-retardant versions available for indoor and indoor/outdoor applications that meet local building code requirements. Corning s hardware and equipment for enterprise network applications include cable assemblies, fiber-optic hardware, fiber-optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures and other accessories. These products may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical connectivity solutions designed for various network applications, including hyperscale data centers. Examples of enterprise network solutions include the Pretium EDGE platform, which provides high-density pre-connectorized solutions for data center applications, and continues to evolve with recent updates for upgrading to 40/100G applications and port tap modules for network monitoring; the previously mentioned ONE Wireless platform, which spans both carrier and enterprise network applications; and our recently introduced optical connectivity solutions to support customer initiatives. During 2018, Corning acquired substantially all of the 3M Company s (3M) Communication Markets Division ( CMD ) for $841 million. This transaction served to augment its Optical Communications segment s global market access and expand its broad portfolio of high-bandwidth optical connectors, assemblies, hardware, and accessories for carrier networks, enterprise LAN and data center solutions. Our optical fiber manufacturing facilities are in North Carolina, China and India. Cabling operations are in North Carolina, Poland and smaller regional locations. Our manufacturing operations for hardware and equipment products are in Texas, Arizona, Mexico, Brazil, Denmark, Germany, Poland, Israel, Australia and China. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. The segment licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates revenue from these licenses, although the royalty income is not currently material to this segment s operating results. Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are considered important to the segment s operations. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for information relating to the Company s patents and trademarks. 2020 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 4 Index The Optical Communications segment represented 35% of Corning s segment net sales in 2019. Specialty Materials Segment The Specialty Materials segment manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs. Consequently, this segment operates in a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets including display optics and components, semiconductor optics components, aerospace and defense, astronomy, ophthalmic products, telecommunications components and cover glass optimized for display devices. Our cover glass, known as Corning Gorilla Glass, is a thin sheet glass designed specifically to function as a cover glass for display devices such as mobile phones, tablets, smartwatches and notebook PCs. Elegant and lightweight, Corning Gorilla Glass is durable enough to resist many real-world events that commonly cause glass failure, while maintaining optical clarity, touch sensitivity, and damage resistance, enabling exciting new applications in technology and design. In 2018, Corning unveiled its latest Corning Gorilla Glass innovation, Corning Gorilla Glass 6, which is designed to be stronger than previous formulas and provide further protection against breakage. Corning Gorilla Glass 6 survives higher drop heights and more repeated drops than Corning Gorilla Glass 5. Corning Gorilla Glass is manufactured in Kentucky, South Korea and Taiwan. Semiconductor optics manufactured by Corning include high-performance optical material products, optical-based metrology instruments and optical assemblies for applications in the global semiconductor industry. Corning s semiconductor optics products are manufactured in New York. Other specialty glass products include glass lens and window components and assemblies made in New York, New Hampshire and France, and sourced from China. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for information relating to the Company s patents and trademarks. The Specialty Materials segment represented 14% of Corning s segment net sales in 2019. Environmental Technologies Segment Corning s Environmental Technologies segment manufactures ceramic substrates and filter products for emissions control in mobile applications around the world. In the early 1970s, Corning developed an economical, high-performance cellular ceramic substrate that is now the standard for catalytic converters in vehicles worldwide. As global emissions control regulations tighten, Corning has continued to develop more effective and durable ceramic substrate and filter products for gasoline and diesel applications, most recently launching gasoline particulate filters. Corning manufactures substrate and filter products in New York, Virginia, China, Germany and South Africa. Corning sells its ceramic substrate and filter products worldwide to catalyzers and manufacturers of emission control systems who then sell to automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers. Although most sales are made to the emission control systems manufacturers, the use of Corning substrates and filters is generally required by the specifications of the automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are also considered important to the segment s operations. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for information relating to the Company s patents and trademarks. The Environmental Technologies segment represented 12% of Corning s segment net sales in 2019. 2020 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 5 Index Life Sciences Segment As a leading developer, manufacturer and global supplier of laboratory products for over 100 years, Corning s Life Sciences segment works with researchers and drug manufacturers seeking to drive innovation, increase efficiencies, reduce costs and compress timelines. Using unique expertise in the fields of materials science, polymer surface science, cell culture and cell biology, the segment provides innovative solutions that improve productivity and enable breakthrough research for traditional small molecule, or chemical, drugs and for emerging cell and gene therapies. Life Sciences products include consumables, such as plastic vessels, specialty surfaces, cell culture media and serum, as well as general labware and equipment. These products are used for drug discovery research and development, compound screening and toxicology testing, advanced cell culture research, genomics and mass production of cells for clinical trials and bioproduction. Corning sells life sciences products under these primary brands: Corning, Falcon, Pyrex and Axygen. The products are marketed globally, primarily through distributors, to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract manufacturing organizations, academic institutions, hospitals, government entities, and other facilities. Corning manufactures these products in California, Illinois, Maine, Massachusetts, New York, North Carolina, Utah, Virginia, China, France, Mexico and Poland. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for more information. The Life Sciences segment represented 9% of Corning s segment net sales in 2019. All Other All other segments that do not meet the quantitative threshold for separate reporting have been grouped as All Other. This group is primarily comprised of the results of the pharmaceutical technologies business, auto glass, new product lines and development projects, as well as certain corporate investments. The All Other segment represented 2% of Corning s segment net sales in 2019. Additional explanation regarding Corning and its five reportable segments, as well as financial information about geographic areas, is presented in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 18 (Reportable Segments) to the consolidated financial statements. Corporate Investments Hemlock Semiconductor Group ( HSG ) In 2016, Corning realigned its ownership interest in Dow Corning, exchanging its 50% interest in the joint venture between Corning and Dow Chemical for a newly formed company that holds a 49.9% interest in Hemlock Semiconductor LLC and a 40.25% interest in Hemlock Semiconductor Operations LLC which are recorded as equity method investments of Corning and are affiliated companies of HSG. HSG manufactures polysilicon products for the semiconductor and solar industries. HSG s solar business primarily serves the solar power panel industry. In prior years, HSG s solar and semiconductor customers entered into long-term take or pay contracts which included up-front cash payments to secure capacity. During the last few years, and more significantly in 2019, the solar power panel industry experienced significant over-capacity in the market, resulting in declining sales volumes and market prices. As a result, HSG s solar business experienced lower market penetration, overall price declines, and settled contracts with customers that had committed volume and fixed pricing above the current market price. While 2020 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 6 Index these settlements positively impacted HSG s cash flow in 2019, they reduced expectations for future sales in HSG s solar business. Due to the adverse change in HSG s solar business, HSG was required to assess the recoverability of its long-lived assets in the fourth quarter. Based on this assessment, HSG determined that the carrying values of HSG s solar asset group significantly exceeded its fair values. HSG engaged a third-party appraiser to assist in determining the fair value of the assets within in the solar asset group based on the highest and best use of the asset group. As a result of the fair value determination, HSG recognized a pre-tax asset impairment charge of $916 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Corning s share of the pre-tax impairment was $369 million. Due to the adverse changes above, the carrying values of HSG s solar business inventories were also affected resulting in an inventory write-down of $257 million for the year. Corning s pre-tax share of the provision was $105 million. HSG adopted the new revenue standard on January 1, 2019 and the timing of HSG s revenue recognition for certain remaining performance obligations measured at January 1, 2019 was deferred for recognition. This deferral reduced the carrying amount of Corning s investment in HSG by $239 million. During the fourth quarter, a significant number of the performance obligations were satisfied and $434 million was recognized into HSG s net income. Corning s share of the equity earnings was $208 million. In addition, HSG settled certain revenue contracts in the fourth quarter, resulting in settlement gains of $383 million in net income. Corning s share of the settlement gains was $185 million. Additional information about corporate investments is presented in Note 6 (Investments) to the consolidated financial statements. Competition Corning competes with many large and varied manufacturers, both domestic and foreign. Some of these competitors are larger than Corning, and some have broader product lines. Corning strives to maintain and improve its market position through technology and product innovation. For the foreseeable future, Corning believes its competitive advantage lies in its commitment to research and development, reliability of supply, product quality and technical specification of its products. There is no assurance that Corning will be able to maintain or improve its market position or competitive advantage. Display Technologies Segment Corning is the largest worldwide producer of glass substrates for high-performance display glass. The environment for high-performance display glass substrate products is very competitive and Corning believes it has maintained its competitive advantages by investing in new products, continually improving its proprietary fusion manufacturing process and providing a consistent and reliable supply of high quality products. Our process allows us to deliver glass that is larger, thinner and lighter, with exceptional surface quality and without heavy metals. Asahi Glass Co. Ltd. and Nippon Electric Glass Co. Ltd. are Corning s principal competitors in display glass substrates. Optical Communications Segment Corning believes it maintains a leadership position in the segment s principal product groups, which include carrier and enterprise networks. The competitive landscape includes industry consolidation, price pressure and competition for the innovation of new products. These competitive conditions are likely to persist. Corning believes its large-scale manufacturing experience, fiber process, technology leadership and intellectual property provide cost advantages relative to several of its competitors. The primary competing producers of the Optical Communications segment are CommScope and Prysmian Group. 2020 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 7 Index Specialty Materials Segment Corning has deep capabilities in materials science, optical design, shaping, coating, finishing, metrology and system assembly. We continue to address the emerging needs of the consumer electronics industry with the development of chemically strengthened glass. Corning Gorilla Glass is a thin-sheet glass that is better able to survive events that most commonly cause glass failure. Its advanced composition allows a deeper layer of chemical strengthening than is possible with most other chemically strengthened glasses, making it both durable and damage resistant. Our products and capabilities in this segment position the Company to meet the needs of a broad array of markets including display, semiconductor, aerospace, defense, astronomy, vision care, industrial, commercial, and telecommunications. For this segment, Schott, Asahi Glass Co. Ltd., Nippon Electric Glass Co. Ltd. and Heraeus are the main competitors. Environmental Technologies Segment Corning believes it maintains a strong position in the worldwide market for automotive ceramic substrate and filter products, as well as in the heavy-duty and light-duty diesel vehicle markets. The Company believes its competitive advantage in automotive ceramic substrate products for catalytic converters and filter products for particulate emissions in exhaust systems is based on an advantaged product portfolio, collaborative engineering design services, customer service and support, strategic global presence and continued product innovation. Corning s Environmental Technologies products face principal competition from NGK Insulators, Ltd. and Ibiden Co. Ltd. Life Sciences Segment Corning seeks to maintain a competitive advantage by emphasizing product quality, global distribution, supply chain efficiency, a broad product line and superior product attributes. Our principal competitors include Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., Greiner Group AG, Eppendorf AG, Starstedt AG and Danaher Corporation. Corning also faces increasing competition from large distributors that have pursued backward integration or introduced private label products. Raw Materials Corning s manufacturing processes and products require access to uninterrupted power sources, significant quantities of industrial water, certain precious metals and various batch materials. Availability of resources (ores, minerals, polymers, helium and processed chemicals) required in manufacturing operations, appear to be adequate. From time to time, Corning s suppliers may experience capacity limitations in their own operations, or may eliminate certain product lines. Corning believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of raw and batch materials as well as precious metals. For many of its materials, Corning has alternate suppliers that would allow operations to continue without interruption in the event of specific materials shortages. Certain key materials and proprietary equipment used in the manufacturing of products are currently sole-sourced or available only from a limited number of suppliers. To minimize this risk, Corning closely monitors raw materials and equipment with limited availability or sole-sourced suppliers. However, any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components and/or raw materials could result in lost sales due to delays or reductions in product shipments, or reductions in Corning s gross margins. Patents and Trademarks Inventions by members of Corning s research and engineering staff continue to be important to the Company s growth. Patents have been granted on many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these patents have been licensed to other manufacturers. Many of our earlier patents have now expired, but Corning continues to seek and obtain patents protecting its innovations. In 2019, Corning was granted about 550 patents in the U.S. and over 1,575 patents in countries outside the U.S. 2020 Corning Incorporated. All Rights Reserved. 8 Index Each business segment possesses a patent portfolio that provides certain competitive advantages in protecting Corning s innovations. Corning has historically enforced, and will continue to enforce, its intellectual property rights. At the end of 2019, Corning and its wholly-owned subsidiaries owned over 12,500 unexpired patents in various countries of which over 4,600 were U.S. patents. Between 2020 and 2022, approximately 9% of these patents will expire, while at the same time Corning intends to seek patents protecting its newer innovations. Worldwide, Corning has about 10,600 patent applications in process, with about 2,300 in process in the U.S. Corning believes that its patent portfolio will continue to provide a competitive advantage in protecting the Company s innovation, although Corning s competitors in each of its businesses are actively seeking patent protection as well. While each of our reportable segments has numerous patents in various countries, no one patent is considered material to any of these segments. Important U.S.-issued patents in our reportable segments include the following: Display Technologies: patents relating to glass compositions and methods for the use and manufacture of glass substrates for display applications. Optical Communications: patents relating to (i) multimode and single mode optical fiber products including low-loss optical fiber, large effective area optical fiber, and other high data rate optical fiber, and processes and equipment for manufacturing optical fiber, including methods for making optical fiber preforms and methods for drawing, cooling and winding optical fiber; (ii) optical fiber ribbons and methods for making such ribbon, indoor and outdoor fiber-optic cable products and methods for making and installing optical fiber cable; (iii) optical fiber connectors and factory-terminated assemblies, hardware, termination and storage and associated methods of manufacture; and (iv) optical fiber and hybrid fiber-coax wireless communication systems. Environmental Technologies: patents relating to cellular ceramic honeycomb products, together with ceramic batch and binder system compositions, honeycomb extrusion and firing processes, and honeycomb extrusion dies and