Item 1. Business General Corning traces its origins to a glass business established in 1851. The present corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936. The Company s name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28, 1989. Corning is vital to progress in the industries we help advance and in the world we share. For more than 170 years, Corning has combined its unparalleled expertise in glass science, ceramic science and optical physics with deep manufacturing and engineering capabilities to develop category-defining products that transform industries and enhance people s lives. Our materials science and manufacturing expertise, boundless curiosity and commitment to purposeful invention place us at the center of the way the world works, learns and lives. In addition, our sustained investment in research, development and engineering capabilities means we are always ready to solve the toughest challenges alongside our customers. Our capabilities are versatile and synergistic, allowing Corning to evolve to meet changing market needs, while also helping customers capture new opportunities in dynamic industries. Today, Corning s markets include optical communications, mobile consumer electronics, display, automotive, solar, semiconductor and life sciences. Corning s industry-leading products include damage-resistant cover glass for mobile devices; precision glass for advanced displays; optical fiber and cable, wireless technologies and connectivity solutions for state-of-the-art communications networks; trusted products to accelerate drug discovery and delivery; and clean-air technologies for cars and trucks. Corning manufactures products at 124 plants in 15 countries and operates in five reportable segments: Optical Communications, Display Technologies, Specialty Materials, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences. Optical Communications Segment We invented the world s first low-loss optical fiber in 1970. Since that milestone, we have continued to pioneer optical fiber, cable and connectivity solutions. As global demand driven by video usage grows exponentially, telecommunications networks continue to migrate from copper to optical-based systems that can deliver the required cost-effective capacity. Our experience puts us in a unique position to design and deliver optical solutions that reach every edge of the communications network. The Optical Communications segment is divided into two main product groupings carrier network and enterprise network. The carrier network group consists primarily of products and solutions for optical-based communications infrastructure for services such as video, data and voice communications. The enterprise network group consists primarily of optical-based communication networks sold to businesses, governments and individuals for their own use. 2 Table of Contents Our carrier network product portfolio encompasses an array of optical fiber products, including Vascade optical fibers for use in submarine networks; LEAF optical fiber for long-haul, regional and metropolitan networks; SMF-28 ULL and TXF fiber for more scalable long-haul and regional networks; SMF-28e+ single-mode optical fiber providing additional transmission wavelengths in metropolitan and access networks and ClearCurve ultra-bendable single-mode fiber for use in multiple-dwelling units and fiber-to-the-home applications. For high performance across the range of long-haul, metro, access and fiber-to-the-home network applications, SMF-28 Ultra and SMF-28 Contour fibers deliver industry-leading attenuation, compatibility and improved macrobend performance in one fiber. A portion of our optical fiber is sold directly to end users and third-party cablers globally. Our remaining fiber production is cabled internally and sold to end users as either bulk cable or as part of an integrated optical solution. Our cable products, including the RocketRibbon and miniXtend portfolios, support various outdoor, indoor/outdoor and indoor applications and include a broad range of loose tube, ribbon and drop cable designs with flame-retardant versions available for indoor and indoor/outdoor use including 5G networks. In addition to optical fiber and cable, our carrier network product portfolio also includes hardware and equipment products, including cable assemblies, fiber-optic hardware, fiber-optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures, network interface devices and other accessories. These products may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical connectivity solutions designed for various carrier network applications. Examples of these solutions include our Evolv platform, which provides pre-connectorized solutions for cost-effectively deploying fiber-to-the-home and 5G networks; and the Centrix platform, which provides a fiber management system with industry-leading density and innovative jumper routing that can be deployed in a wide variety of carrier switching centers. In addition to our optical-based portfolio, our carrier network portfolio also contains select copper-based products including subscriber demarcation, connection and protection devices, xDSL (different variations of digital subscriber lines) passive solutions and outside plant enclosures. Our enterprise network portfolio leverages optical fiber products, including ClearCurve ultra-bendable multimode fiber for private and hyperscale data centers and other enterprise network applications. Our hardware and equipment for enterprise network applications include cable assemblies, fiber-optic hardware, fiber-optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures and other accessories. These products may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical connectivity solutions designed for various network applications, including hyperscale data centers. Examples of enterprise network solutions include the EDGE platform, which provides high-density pre-connectorized cabling solutions for data center applications, supporting a path to speeds of 400G and beyond and Everon Network Solutions, which provide next-generation cellular connectivity products for interior spaces of all sizes. Our optical fiber manufacturing facilities are in North Carolina, China, India and Poland. Cabling operations are in North Carolina, Poland and smaller regional locations. Our manufacturing operations for hardware and equipment products are in Texas, Mexico, Brazil, Germany, Poland and China. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. The segment licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates revenue from these licenses, although the royalty income is not currently material to this segment s operating results. We are licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are considered important to the segment s operations. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for more information. The Optical Communications segment represented 30% of Corning s total segment net sales in 2023. Display Technologies Segment The Display Technologies segment manufactures glass substrates for flat panel displays, including liquid crystal displays ( LCDs ) and organic light-emitting diodes ( OLEDs ) that are used primarily in televisions, notebook computers, desktop monitors, tablets and handheld devices. This segment develops, manufactures and supplies high quality glass substrates using technology expertise and a proprietary fusion manufacturing process, which we invented and is the cornerstone of our technology leadership in the display glass industry. Our highly automated process yields glass substrates with a pristine surface and excellent thermal stability and dimensional uniformity essential attributes in the production of large, high-performance display panels. Our fusion process is scalable and we believe it is the most cost-effective process for producing large size substrates. 3 Table of Contents We are recognized as a world leader in precision glass innovations that enable our customers to produce larger, thinner, more flexible and higher-resolution displays. Some of the product innovations we have launched over the past ten years utilizing our world-class processes and capabilities include the following: Corning EAGLE XG Slim Glass, Corning s flagship display glass product enabling thinner televisions and monitors with larger-sized screens; it is trusted by the world s leading panel makers for LCD displays with more than 30 billion square feet sold; Corning Astra Glass, an innovative glass solution designed to meet the emerging needs for high-resolution displays. This glass has been optimized for oxide thin-film transistor ( TFT ) backplanes, but enables a range of high-resolution applications from the top end of amorphous silicon ( s-Si ) TFT backplanes through low temperature poly-silicon ( LTPS ) backplanes, as well as other applications requiring precision glass; Corning Lotus NXT Glass, a high-performance display glass designed to withstand the harshest panel manufacturing process enabling highest-resolution displays in smaller and flexible devices; and The world s first Gen 10 and Gen 10.5 glass substrate sizes in support of improved efficiency in manufacturing large-sized displays. We have display glass manufacturing operations in China, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan, and service our glass customers in all regions, utilizing our manufacturing facilities throughout Asia. Patent protection and proprietary trade secrets are important to the Display Technologies segment s operations. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for more information. The Display Technologies segment represented 26% of Corning s total segment net sales in 2023. Specialty Materials Segment The Specialty Materials segment manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and crystals, as well as precision metrology instruments and software to meet requirements for unique customer needs. Consequently, this segment operates in a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets including materials optimized for mobile consumer electronics, semiconductor equipment optics and consumables, aerospace and defense optics, radiation shielding products, sunglasses and telecommunications components. Our highly durable glass, known as Corning Gorilla Glass, is a chemically strengthened thin glass designed specifically to function as a cover, or back-enclosure glass, for mobile consumer electronic devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops and smartwatches. Elegant and lightweight, Corning Gorilla Glass is durable enough to resist many real-world events that commonly cause wear or scratch damage and glass failure, while providing optical clarity, touch sensitivity and RF transparency, thus enabling exciting new applications in technology and design. In 2022, Corning unveiled its newest glass innovation, Corning Gorilla Glass Victus 2, which delivers improved cover glass drop performance on rough surfaces like concrete, while preserving the scratch resistance of Corning Gorilla Glass Victus . Corning Gorilla Glass is manufactured in the United States ( U.S. ), South Korea and Taiwan. We collaborated with Apple to deliver durable glass with infused color for the back of Apple's iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus devices. These devices also feature Ceramic Shield, a highly transparent, color-free glass-ceramic, which offers unparalleled durability and toughness for smartphones. Our semiconductor optics include high-performance optical materials including Corning HPFS Fused Silica and Corning ULE Ultra-Low Expansion Glass, optical-based metrology instruments and custom optical assemblies for applications in the global semiconductor industry. Our semiconductor optics products are manufactured in New York. We also manufacture ultra-flat, ultra-thin glass wafers and substrates for a variety of applications including augmented reality, advanced semiconductor packaging, 3D sensing and more. These products are manufactured in New York, France and China. Other specialty glass products include tinted sunglasses and radiation shielding products that are made in France. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for more information. The Specialty Materials segment represented 14% of Corning s total segment net sales in 2023. 4 Table of Contents Environmental Technologies Segment The Environmental Technologies segment manufactures ceramic substrates and filter products for emissions control in mobile applications around the world. In the early 1970s, we developed an economical, high-performance cellular ceramic substrate that is now the standard for catalytic converters in vehicles worldwide. As global emissions control regulations tighten, we have continued to develop more effective and durable ceramic substrate and filter products for gasoline and diesel applications, most recently launching low-mass Corning FLORA substrates and Corning DuraTrap GC gasoline particulate filters. We manufacture substrate and filter products in New York, Virginia, China and Germany. We sell our ceramic substrate and filter products worldwide to catalyzers and manufacturers of emission control systems who then sell to automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers. Although most sales are made to the emission control systems manufacturers, the use of our substrates and filters is generally required by the specifications of the automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. We are licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are also considered important to the segment s operations. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for more information. The Environmental Technologies segment represented 13% of Corning s total segment net sales in 2023. Life Sciences Segment As a leading developer, manufacturer and global supplier of laboratory products for over 105 years, the Life Sciences segment works with researchers and drug manufacturers seeking to drive innovation, increase efficiencies, reduce costs and compress timelines. Using unique expertise in the fields of materials science, polymer surface science, cell culture and cell biology, the segment provides innovative solutions that improve productivity and enable breakthrough research for traditional small molecule, or chemical, drugs, biologics, vaccines and emerging cell and gene therapies. Life Sciences products include consumables, such as plastic vessels, liquid handling plastics, specialty surfaces, cell culture media and serum, as well as general labware, glassware and equipment. These products are used for drug discovery research and development, compound screening, diagnostics, advanced cell culture research, genomics applications and mass production of cells for clinical trials and bioproduction. We sell life sciences products under the Corning , Falcon , PYREX and Axygen brands. The products are marketed globally, primarily through distributors, to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract manufacturing organizations, central testing labs, academic institutions, hospitals, government entities and other facilities. We manufacture these products in California, Illinois, Maine, Massachusetts, New York, North Carolina, Utah, Virginia, China, France, Mexico, Brazil and Poland. Patent protection is important to the segment s operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading Patents and Trademarks for more information. The Life Sciences segment represented 7% of Corning s total segment net sales in 2023. Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses All other businesses that do not meet the quantitative threshold for separate reporting have been grouped as Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses. This group is primarily comprised of the results of Hemlock Semiconductor Group ( HSG ). HSG is a leading provider of high-purity polysilicon products for the solar power and electronics industries. HSG operates in the solar power market, as polysilicon is needed in the manufacturing process to produce sustainable solar power cell, panels and arrays, and the electronics markets, as polysilicon is used to create fabricated wafers and integrated circuit chips used by leading semiconductor manufacturers. Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses also includes our pharmaceutical technologies business, which produces high-quality pharmaceutical glass tubing and vials to meet the rigorous needs of the pharmaceutical industry; our automotive glass solutions business, which enhances vehicle exteriors and interiors with innovations that enable lightweight, damage-resistant windows and displays; as well as other businesses and certain corporate investments. Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses represented 10% of Corning s total segment net sales in 2023. 5 Table of Contents Additional explanation regarding Corning and its five reportable segments, as well as financial information about geographic areas, is presented in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 17 (Reportable Segments) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Competition We compete with many large and varied manufacturers, both domestic and foreign. Some of these competitors are larger than we are, and some have broader product lines. We strive to maintain and improve our market position through technology and product innovation. For the foreseeable future, our competitive advantage lies in our commitment to research and development, deep customer relationships, reliability of supply, product quality, superior customer service and technical specification of our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or improve our market position or competitive advantage. Optical Communications Segment We maintain a leadership position in the segment s principal product groups, which include carrier and enterprise networks. The competitive landscape includes industry consolidation, pricing pressure and competition for the innovation of new products. These competitive conditions are likely to persist. Our large-scale manufacturing experience, fiber process, technology leadership and intellectual property provide cost advantages relative to several of our competitors. Our principal competitors include CommScope Holding Company, Inc. and Prysmian Group S.p.A. Display Technologies Segment We are the largest worldwide producer of glass substrates for flat panel displays. The environment for high-performance display glass substrate products is very competitive and we have maintained our competitive advantages by investing in new products, continually improving our proprietary fusion manufacturing process and providing a consistent and reliable supply of high-quality products. Our process allows us to deliver glass that is larger, thinner and lighter, with exceptional surface quality and without heavy metals. Our principal competitors include AGC Inc. and Nippon Electric Glass Co., Ltd. Specialty Materials Segment We have deep capabilities in materials science, optical design, shaping, coating, finishing, metrology and optical system assembly. Our products and capabilities in this segment position us to meet the needs of a broad array of markets, including semiconductor, aerospace, defense, industrial, commercial and telecommunications. Our principal competitors include Schott AG, AGC Inc., Nippon Electric Glass Co., Ltd. and Heraeus. Environmental Technologies Segment We maintain a strong position in the worldwide market for automotive ceramic substrate and filter products, as well as in the heavy-duty and light-duty diesel vehicle markets. Our competitive advantage in automotive ceramic substrate products for catalytic converters and filter products for particulate emissions in exhaust systems is based on an advantaged product portfolio, collaborative engineering design services, customer service and support, strategic global presence and continued product innovation. Our principal competitors include NGK Insulators, Ltd. and Ibiden Co., Ltd. Life Sciences Segment We seek to maintain a competitive advantage by emphasizing product quality, global distribution, supply chain efficiency, a broad product line, technical support and superior product attributes. Our principal competitors include Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., Avantor, Inc., Greiner AG, Eppendorf SE, Sarstedt AG Co. KG and Danaher Corporation. Corning also faces competition from large distributors that have pursued backward integration or introduced private label products. 6 Table of Contents Raw Materials Our manufacturing processes and products require access to uninterrupted power sources, significant quantities of industrial water, certain precious metals and various batch materials. Availability of resources, such as ores, minerals, polymers, lithium, helium and processed chemicals, required in our manufacturing operations appear to be adequate. From time to time, our suppliers may experience capacity limitations in their own operations or may eliminate certain product lines. We have adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of raw and batch materials, as well as precious metals which are used in our production processes. For many of our materials, we have alternate suppliers that would allow operations to continue without interruption in the event of specific materials shortages. Certain key materials and proprietary equipment used in the manufacturing of products are currently sole-sourced or available only from a limited number of suppliers. To minimize this risk, we closely monitor raw materials and equipment with limited availability or sole-sourced suppliers. However, any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery, or inflationary pricing, of components and/or raw materials could result in lost revenue due to delays or reductions in product shipments, or reductions in gross margin. Patents and Trademarks Inventions by members of our research and engineering staff continue to be important to our growth. Patents have been granted on many of these inventions in the U.S. and other countries. Some of these patents have been licensed to other manufacturers. Many of our earlier patents have now expired, but we continue to seek and obtain patents protecting our innovations. In 2023, we were granted about 520 patents in the U.S. and over 1,510 patents in countries outside the U.S. Each business segment possesses a patent portfolio that provides certain competitive advantages in protecting our innovations. We have historically enforced, and will continue to enforce, our intellectual property rights. At the end of 2023, we owned about 12,975 unexpired patents in various countries, of which about 4,660 were U.S. patents. Between 2024 and 2026, approximately 730, or 6%, of these worldwide patents will expire, while at the same time we intend to seek patents protecting our newer innovations. Worldwide, we have about 8,370 patent applications in process, with about 2,130 in process in the U.S. Our patent portfolio will continue to provide a competitive advantage in protecting our innovations, although our competitors in each of our businesses are actively seeking patent protection as well. While each of our reportable segments has numerous patents in various countries, no one patent is considered material to any segment. Important issued patents in our reportable segments include the following: Optical Communications: patents relating to (i) multimode and single mode optical fiber products including low-loss optical fiber, large effective area optical fiber and other high data rate optical fiber, and processes and equipment for manufacturing optical fiber, including methods for making optical fiber preforms and methods for drawing, cooling and winding optical fiber; (ii) optical fiber ribbons and methods for making such ribbon, indoor and outdoor fiber optic cable products and methods for making and installing optical fiber cable; (iii) optical fiber connectors and factory-terminated assemblies, hardware, termination and storage and associated methods of manufacture; and (iv) optical fiber and hybrid fiber-coax wireless communication systems. Display Technologies: patents relating to glass compositions and methods for the use and manufacture of glass substrates for display applications. Specialty Materials: patents relating to protective cover glass materials and coatings, ophthalmic glasses and polarizing dyes and semiconductor/microlithography optics and blanks, metrology instrumentation and laser/precision optics, glass polarizers, specialty fiber and refractories. Environmental Technologies: patents relating to cellular ceramic honeycomb products, together with ceramic batch and binder system compositions, honeycomb extrusion and firing processes, and honeycomb extrusion dies and equipment for the high-volume, low-cost manufacture of such products. Life Sciences: patents relating to methods and apparatus for the manufacture and use of scientific laboratory equipment including multiwell plates and cell culture products, as well as equipment and processes for cell and gene therapy research. 7 Table of Contents The following table presents the approximate number of patents granted to our reportable segments: Number of patents worldwide U.S. patents Important U.S. patents expiring between 2024 and 2026 Optical Communications 4,824 2,213 31 Display Technologies 1,135 154 9 Specialty Materials 2,837 866 14 Environmental Technologies 936 346 9 Life Sciences 564 158 4 Many of our patents are used in operations or are licensed for use by others, and we are licensed to use patents owned by others. We have entered into cross-licensing arrangements with some major competitors, but the scope of such licenses has been limited to specific product areas or technologies. Our principal trademarks include the following: Axygen, Celcor, ClearCurve, Corning, DuraTrap, Eagle XG, Edge8, Everon, Evolv, Falcon, Gorilla, Guardiant, HPFS, Leaf, PYREX, RocketRibbon, SMF-28e, Steuben, UniCam, Valor, Velocity, Victus and Viridian. Protection of the Environment We have an extensive program to ensure that our facilities comply with state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations. This program has resulted in capital and operating expenditures each year. To maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution control in operations were approximately $21.8 million in 2023 and are estimated to be $20.1 million in 2024. Our 2023 consolidated operating results reflect approximately $69.6 million for depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal and other operating expenses associated with pollution control. Human Capital Management Overview At Corning, we are proud of the life-changing innovations we bring to the world. Our unparalleled expertise in our core technologies along with deep manufacturing and engineering capabilities require a talent strategy focused on attracting and retaining exceptional people, building a culture that enables innovation and collaboration and supporting long and successful careers. Each of our 49,800 full- and part-time employees in 44 countries make an important contribution, whether in one of our manufacturing or processing facilities, research labs, sales offices or other facilities. Approximately 60% of all employees are in production and maintenance roles and more than 60% of all employees are represented by a union, works council or other representative group. Values Corning is guided by an enduring set of Values that defines our relationship with employees, customers and our communities: Quality, Integrity, Performance, Leadership, Innovation, Independence and the Individual. Our Values are the key to our business success, a source of pride and excitement for our employees and the factor that ultimately sets us apart from our competitors. In short, we believe that how we do things is as important as what we do. We measure how we live our Values through our annual Voice to Action workplace culture survey. In 2023, we had an 85% response rate with survey participation worldwide. We use the results to pinpoint recurring global themes and develop plans to drive action based on employee feedback. Corning employees all contribute to the success of the Company by Living our Values all seven, all the time, all around the world. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We are focused on building globally diverse teams and creating an inclusive environment for all. Our global workforce is comprised of 64% men and 36% women. In all regions of the world, we are continuing to invest in building our talent pipeline of women through targeted recruitment efforts, mentoring and coaching programs, networking opportunities, personalized development plans and proactive career management. As a result of these efforts, we have made significant diversity gains within our leadership teams. Since 2013, gender and ethnic diversity among members of the Corporate 