Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 21 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. [Removed and Reserved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 24 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 71 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 71 Item 9B. Other Information 72 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 72 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 72 Item 11. Executive Compensation 72 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 72 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 72 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements may include words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, forecast, project, plan, intend, believe, confident, may, should, can have, likely, future, optimistic and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of the timing or nature of future operating or financial performance or other events. The forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are based on assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience and on our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. As you read and consider this report, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) and assumptions. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results and cause them to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this annual report include estimates regarding: our business, financial and operating results, and future economic performance; proposed new product and service offerings; and management's goals, expectations and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Factors that could affect our actual financial results and cause them to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include: fluctuations in cost, availability, and quality of raw materials, key components and labor required to manufacture our products; our dependence on a small number of contract manufacturers and component suppliers, including single-source suppliers; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights or successfully defend against third party infringement claims; increase in product and other liability claims, warranty costs, recalls, or other claims; significant legal proceedings, claims, fines, penalties, tax assessments, lawsuits or government investigations; our ability to consummate our share repurchase programs; our failure or inability to adapt to, or comply with, current or future changes in applicable laws and regulations; scrutiny regarding our ESG practices; our ability to develop and enhance products and gain customer acceptance for our products; frequency and duration of power outages impacting demand for our products; changes in durable goods spending by consumers and businesses or other macroeconomic conditions, impacting demand for our products; our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products and effectively manage inventory levels relative to such forecast; our ability to remain competitive; our dependence on our dealer and distribution network; market reaction to changes in selling prices or mix of products; loss of our key management and employees; disruptions from labor disputes or organized labor activities; our ability to attract and retain employees; disruptions in our manufacturing operations; changes in U.S. trade policy; the possibility that the expected synergies, efficiencies and cost savings of our acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, or realignments will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; risks related to sourcing components in foreign countries; compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; government regulation of our products; failures or security breaches of our networks, information technology systems, or connected products; our ability to make payments on our indebtedness; terms of our credit facilities that may restrict our operations; our potential need for additional capital to finance our growth or refinancing our existing credit facilities; risks of impairment of the value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived assets; volatility of our stock price; and potential tax liabilities. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of these assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in any forward-looking statements. A detailed discussion of these and other factors that may affect future results is contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Stockholders, potential investors and other readers should consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this report speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Generac is a leading energy technology solutions company that provides backup and prime power generation products for residential and commercial industrial (C I) applications, solar + battery storage systems, energy monitoring management devices and services, and engine- battery-powered tools and equipment. As an energy technology solutions company that is Powering a Smarter World , our corporate purpose is to lead the evolution to more resilient, efficient, and sustainable energy solutions around the world. We have a long history of providing power generation products across a variety of applications, and we maintain one of the leading market positions in the power equipment markets in North America and an expanding presence internationally. We believe we have one of the widest ranges of products in the power generation marketplace, including residential, commercial, and industrial standby generators, as well as portable and mobile generators used in a variety of applications. In recent years, the Company has been evolving its product portfolio by building out ecosystems of energy technology products, solutions, and services for homes and businesses. As part of this evolution, we have made significant investments into growing markets such as residential and C I energy storage, solar module-level power electronics (MLPE), energy monitoring management devices, and electric vehicle (EV) charging. Central to these ecosystems are the Company s next-generation connectivity devices, controls capabilities, and software platforms that facilitate the integration of our products and support the growing utilization of such distributed energy resources (DERs) in grid services programs. In addition, we have been leveraging our leading position in the growing market for natural gas fueled generators, which we believe represents a cleaner transition fuel compared to diesel, to expand into applications beyond standby power, allowing us to participate in Energy-as-a-Service and microgrid projects for C I customers. As the traditional centralized utility model evolves over time, we believe that a more decarbonized, digitized, and decentralized grid infrastructure will develop, and Generac s energy technology solutions are uniquely and strategically positioned to participate in this next-generation grid referred to as Grid 2.0 . As our traditional power generation markets continue to grow due to multiple mega-trends that are driving increased penetration of our products, we believe we are in an excellent position to execute on this opportunity given our competitive strengths. In addition, our focus on more resilient, efficient and sustainable energy solutions has dramatically increased our served addressable market, and as a result, we believe that Generac is well positioned for success over the long term. Company History Generac was founded in 1959 to commercialize a line of affordable portable generators that offered superior performance and features. The Company s success through the years has been built upon engineering expertise, manufacturing excellence and our innovative approaches to the market. This has driven our growth into becoming a leading provider of power equipment for a variety of applications within residential, commercial, and industrial markets. In 1980, we expanded beyond portable generators into the industrial power generation market with the introduction of our first stationary generators that provided up to 200kW of power output. We introduced our first residential standby generator in 1989 and expanded our industrial product offering and global distribution system in the 1990s, forming a series of alliances that rapidly increased our sales. Our growth accelerated in the 2000s as we expanded our purpose-built line of residential and commercial automatic standby generators and implemented our multi-layered, omni-channel distribution philosophy. Throughout the 2000s, a number of high-profile power outage events also helped to increase the awareness and need for backup power and home standby generators. In 2006, the founder of Generac sold the company to affiliates of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC, together with certain other investors and members of our management. In February 2010, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of the Company s common stock. Since then, we have scaled our sales marketing capabilities and systems, while also building the Generac brand into one of the leading names in backup power around the nation. Soon after going public, we implemented our Powering Ahead enterprise strategy. This strategic plan accelerated the Company s transition from primarily a North America focused, emergency backup generator company into a more diversified industrial technology company with the addition of new and adjacent product categories and an expanded global presence, primarily through a series of acquisitions. In 2018, we transitioned to a new enterprise strategy called Powering Our Future , which drove further share gains in new and existing markets, capitalized on Generac s leadership in natural gas gensets, established our connectivity strategy, and provided the foundation for the Company s evolution into an energy technology solutions company, including our initial acquisitions within the residential clean energy space. This ultimately led to the introduction of our Powering A Smarter World enterprise strategy in 2021. Our current strategic plan continues the evolution of Generac s business model that pairs traditional and emerging power generation, conversion, and storage technologies with new monitoring, management and grid services capabilities to provide solutions for the dynamic challenges presented by today s energy landscape. 2 Table of Contents Significant Investments in Energy Technology Solutions We ve been providing power generation and resiliency solutions for homes and businesses for decades. Leveraging that expertise in power generation, Generac has made significant investments in recent years to expand its capabilities into energy technology solutions, beginning with the March 2019 acquisition of Neurio Technology Inc., a leading energy data company focused on monitoring technology and sophisticated analytics to optimize energy use within a home or business. This was followed by the April 2019 acquisition of Pika Energy Inc. (Pika Energy), a designer and manufacturer of battery storage technologies that capture and store solar or other power sources for homeowners and businesses. In October 2020, the Company acquired Enbala Power Networks Inc., one of the leading providers of distributed energy optimization and control software that helps support the operational stability of the world s power grids. In July 2021, Generac added to its residential clean energy portfolio with the acquisition of Chilicon Power LLC (Chilicon), a designer and provider of grid-interactive rooftop power inversion devices and monitoring solutions for the solar market. With these acquisitions, Generac has established a presence in the rapidly developing residential clean energy market, focused on solar and battery storage solutions, as well as grid services platforms that can leverage any of our product offerings that are capable of being grid-connected. In December 2021, Generac acquired ecobee Inc. (ecobee), a leader in sustainable home technology solutions. In addition to smart home thermostatic controls and other smart home devices, ecobee offers its customers the ability to participate in energy services programs, which allow homeowners to reduce energy consumption and utility bills via intelligent HVAC controls. The acquisition represents a major step forward in the Company s efforts to provide an integrated residential energy ecosystem that includes a sophisticated user interface platform to allow homeowners to take charge of their energy generation, storage, consumption, and management. We believe ecobee s solutions, serving as the central hub of our residential energy ecosystem, together with its product and software development expertise will prove to be a differentiator for Generac when combined with our growing suite of energy technology solutions. In December 2023, Generac made a minority investment in Wallbox N.V. (Wallbox) (NYSE: WBX), a global leader in smart EV charging and energy management solutions. Along with the investment, Generac and Wallbox are expected to collaborate to provide Wallbox s full suite of EV charging solutions to Generac s customers and distribution partners. Also in 2023, we opened a dedicated engineering center of excellence in Reno, Nevada that will house the development and testing of batteries, switches, power electronics, and other clean energy solutions. As we look to the future, we expect to make continued investment in the people, processes, and capabilities involved in the development of these residential energy technologies, as we work to further broaden our product offering and distribution network. Additionally, the favorable policy backdrop for these markets, underscored by the Inflation Reduction Act and other state regulations, provides the necessary visibility to drive potential long-term, value-creating investments. With this opportunity in front of us, we plan to build out our residential energy technology capabilities and our suite of products and solutions as we expect to play an important role in the transition to a cleaner, more sustainable, and more reliable electric grid. Generac s efforts in expanding its energy technology solutions cover C I and international markets as well. In June 2021, the Company acquired Deep Sea Electronics Limited, a UK-based designer and manufacturer of advanced controls for a range of power generation and other applications used around the world. In September 2021, Generac acquired Off Grid Energy Ltd., a designer and manufacturer of industrial-grade mobile energy storage systems serving predominantly rental markets. The Company advanced its C I connectivity strategy with the October 2022 acquisition of Blue Pillar, an industrial internet of things (IoT) platform developer that designs, deploys, and manages industrial IoT solutions. Blue Pillar provides a foundation to build out a connectivity solution for our C I products to further enable their use in grid services programs. In February 2023, Generac acquired REFU Storage Systems GmbH (REFU), a developer and supplier of battery storage and inverter hardware products, advanced software, and platform services for the commercial and industrial markets. REFU s energy storage systems will complement and enhance our current global product offerings and is expected to further accelerate our development of new technologies as we continue to provide our commercial and industrial consumers with leading solutions for their adoption of renewable energy. Additionally, in 2023 Generac launched a series of stationary battery energy storage systems for commercial and industrial applications in the North American market that will help us advance our capabilities in microgrid projects. These acquisitions and related organic initiatives will collectively help lay the groundwork to further advance our energy technology strategies across C I markets around the world. For a complete summary of recent acquisitions, please see Note 1, Description of Business, to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Products and Solutions We design, manufacture, and distribute a broad range of energy technology products and solutions. We design and manufacture stationary, portable, and mobile power generators with single-engine outputs ranging between 800W and 3,250kW. We have developed a line of energy storage systems for use in residential solar-plus-storage applications. We also have a line of stationary and mobile energy storage systems that serve global commercial and industrial markets. We have a growing selection of energy monitoring and management devices and solutions that we expect to serve as the central hub or controls platform for our residential and C I energy ecosystems. We participate in the market for grid services by providing distributed energy optimization and control software. We design and manufacture other power products including light towers and a broad line of outdoor power equipment that we refer to as chore products , which includes a variety of property maintenance equipment powered by both engines and batteries. We classify our products into three categories based on similar ranges of power output geared for varying end customer uses: Residential products, C I products, and "Other products and services". The following summary outlines these categories, including their key attributes and customer applications. Residential Products Our residential automatic standby generators range in output from 7.5kW to 150kW, which predominantly operate on natural gas and liquid propane, and are permanently installed with an automatic transfer switch, which we also manufacture. Air-cooled engine residential standby generators range in outputs from 7.5kW to 26kW and serve as an emergency backup for small to medium-sized homes. Liquid-cooled engine generators serve as emergency backup for larger homes and small businesses and range in output from 22kW to 150kW. 3 Table of Contents As the product category leader, we believe we have the broadest line of home standby generators in the marketplace. Every home standby generator that we offer is equipped with Mobile Link . This remote monitoring capability is a standard, WiFi-enabled feature that allows our customers to check the status of their generator remotely from their smart phone or tablet, and also provides the capability to similarly receive maintenance and service alerts. The data that is provided by this remote monitoring functionality allows us to better understand our installed base of products, while optimizing both product quality and customer satisfaction. In 2021, we expanded our residential connectivity strategy with the acquisition of Tank Utility Inc. (Tank Utility), an IoT propane tank monitoring solutions company. This addition provides incremental value to our dealers and peace of mind to owners of our home standby generators that use propane as a fuel source. Leveraging the technologies acquired in the 2019 acquisition of Pika Energy, we have developed a line of clean energy products marketed under the Generac brand and using the PWRcell brand name. This residential storage solution consists of a system of batteries, an inverter, photovoltaic (PV) optimizers, power electronic controls, and other components. This system captures and stores electricity from solar panels or other power sources and helps reduce home energy costs while also protecting homes from shorter duration power outages. PWRcell systems can range in size from 9kWh up to 36kWh of storage capacity. In 2022, we launched PWRmanager, the second generation of our load management controls, allowing customers to program and remotely control certain loads in a home and thereby manage battery run times from their smart phones or tablets. In 2021, we acquired ecobee, a leader in sustainable smart home solutions such as smart thermostats and a suite of home monitoring products, all designed with a focus on energy conservation, convenience, peace of mind and comfort. ecobee s smart home energy management devices and complementary sensors intelligently optimize heating and cooling systems, often the largest energy consuming system within a home, to deliver significant energy savings for homeowners. In 2023, ecobee launched a line of smart doorbell cameras, which integrates with ecobee s products and helps to drive increased consumer engagement with their platform. The capabilities acquired via ecobee and Tank Utility, paired with our existing Mobile Link remote monitoring system, provide the foundation for Generac s residential connectivity strategy, which will be integral in the continued development of our smart home energy ecosystem. Importantly, we are leveraging ecobee s technologies and software development expertise to develop a user interface platform at the center of our home energy ecosystem that will allow homeowners to monitor and control Generac s entire suite of products using a single pane of glass . In 2023, we took our first steps towards this goal by successfully integrating our home standby generators and propane tank monitors with the ecobee platform. We believe the integration of our products and solutions in a single cohesive ecosystem will drive additional peace of mind and energy efficiency benefits for homeowners. This functionality will also help enable connection to our grid services distributed energy resource management software (DERMS) called Concerto. All of our residential energy technology products and home standby generators come with grid-connection capabilities, enabling consumers to connect and enroll their distributed energy resources in available grid services programs. These solutions can provide material value to homeowners in the form of lower utility costs, while also helping grid operators retain capacity to address supply/demand imbalances on the grid. We continue to develop new Generac-branded energy technology products that we expect to bring to market as we build out a broader energy management ecosystem, giving our distributors access to a more diverse line-up of products that can serve a variety of applications. For example, our recent investment in Wallbox is expected to allow us to participate in the rapidly developing home EV charging market by offering co-branded EV charging technologies through our expansive distribution network. We also provide a broad product line of portable and inverter generators that range in size from 800W to 18kW, as well as multiple portable battery solutions that provide clean, emission-free power at the push of a button. These products can help serve as an emergency home backup source of electricity and are also used for construction and recreational purposes. Our portable generators are targeted at homeowners, with price points ranging between the consumer value end of the market through the premium homeowner market; at professional contractors, starting at the value end through the premium contractor segment; and at the recreational market with our inverter generator products, which are quieter than traditional portable generators. In addition, we offer manual transfer switches to supplement our portable generator product offering. We provide a broad product line of outdoor power equipment referred to as chore products , which are used in property maintenance applications for larger-acreage residences, commercial properties, municipalities, and farms. These products include trimmers, field and brush mowers, log splitters, stump grinders, chipper shredders, lawn and leaf vacuums, pressure washers and water pumps. We also offer commercial-grade, battery-powered turf care products through Mean Green Products, which was acquired in 2020. In addition to Generac s efforts to expand Mean Green s production capacity and distribution capabilities, this acquisition will help to accelerate the electrification of our higher-powered lineup of chore products. Chore products are largely sold in North America through direct-to-consumer online catalogs, retail hardware stores, and outdoor power equipment dealers, primarily under the DR brand name. Residential products comprised 51.3%, 63.8% and 65.8%, respectively, of total net sales in 2023, 2022 and 2021. 4 Table of Contents Commercial Industrial P roducts We offer a full line of C I generators that are sold around the world. We are a leader in cleaner-burning natural gas fueled generators, and also have a full offering of C I generators that are fueled by diesel and Bi-Fuel TM . We believe we have one of the broadest product offerings in the industry with power outputs ranging from 10kW up to 3,250kW. Through the Deep Sea acquisition in 2021, we have expanded our capabilities in the design and manufacture of advanced controls for a range of C I power generation applications, such as microgrids and beyond standby configurations. Our natural gas C I stationary generators have grid-connection capabilities, enabling our customers to generate an incremental return on investment by connecting and enrolling their generator as a distributed energy resource in grid services applications where available. Our light-commercial standby generators and related transfer switches include a full range of affordable systems from 22kW to 150kW, providing three-phase power sufficient for most small and mid-sized businesses such as grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, gas stations, pharmacies, retail banks, small health care facilities and other small-footprint retail applications. Our light-commercial generators predominantly run on natural gas and liquid propane. We design and manufacture a broad product line of modularized and configured stationary generators and related transfer switches for various industrial standby, continuous-duty, and prime rated applications. Our single-engine industrial generators range in output from 10kW up to 3,250kW, include stationary and containerized packages, and can include our Modular Power Systems (MPS) technology that extends our product range up to much larger multi-megawatt systems through an integrated paralleling configuration. Over the past several years, we have introduced larger and higher-powered gaseous-fueled generators, with the highest output of 1,000kW for a single-engine set. Our industrial standby generators are primarily used as emergency backup for larger applications (such as healthcare, telecom, datacom, commercial office, retail, municipal and manufacturing markets, to name a few). In recent years, we've focused our efforts to utilize our gaseous-fueled generators in "beyond standby" applications including distributed generation and microgrid projects and have developed purpose-built products for these applications that have grid-connected capability. This grid-connected functionality and the significant expansion of our in-house advanced controls capabilities further enhances the potential utilization of our generators in these applications. Our MPS technology combines the power of several smaller generators to produce the output of a larger generator, providing our customers with redundancy and scalability in a cost-effective manner. For larger industrial applications, our MPS products offer customers an efficient, affordable way to scale their standby power needs, while offering superior reliability given their built-in redundancy which allows individual units to be taken off-line for routine maintenance while retaining coverage for critical circuits. We also offer a full line of industrial transfer switches to meet varying needs from light commercial applications all the way up to the most demanding mission-critical installations. In recent years, we have significantly increased and upgraded our industr