Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 2. Properties 15 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 76 Item 9B. Other Information 78 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 78 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 79 Item 11. Executive Compensation 80 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 80 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 85 Signatures 86 Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1 . BUSINESS. Genuine Parts Company, GPC , a Georgia corporation incorporated on May 7, 1928, is a leading service organization engaged in the distribution of automotive and industrial replacement parts, each described in more detail below. In 2021, business was conducted from more than 10,300 locations throughout North America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand ("Australasia") through an offering of best in class operating and distribution efficiencies, industry leading coverage of consumable/replacement parts, outstanding just-in-time service and enhanced technology solutions. As used in this report, the Company refers to GPC and its subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated by the context; and the terms automotive parts and industrial parts refer to replacement parts in each respective category. The Company s website can be found at www.genpt.com. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, access to the Company s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, any amendments to these documents, and other reports. These documents and reports are available under the Investor Relations section of the Company s website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Additionally, our corporate governance guidelines, codes of conduct and ethics, charters of the Audit Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, and information regarding our procedure for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with our Board of Directors, are available also on our website. In Part III of this Form 10-K, we incorporate certain information by reference to our proxy statement for our 2022 annual meeting of shareholders. We expect to file the proxy statement with the SEC on or about March 1, 2022, and it will be available online at the same time at http://www.proxydocs.com/gpc. Please refer to the proxy statement for the information incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K when it is available. OUR PURPOSE STRATEGY As a global service organization engaged in the distribution of automotive and industrial replacement parts...we keep the world moving! This is our purpose and foundation for how we do business. At GPC, our mission is to be a world-class service organization and the employer of choice, supplier of choice, valued customer of choice and investment of choice. Additionally, we strive to be a respected business community member and a good corporate citizen. In order to execute this mission, the Company aligns its resources with strategic areas of focus for its streamlined operations. Specifically, the Company focuses on its market-leading automotive and industrial businesses in North America, Europe and Australasia to deliver profitable growth, operational efficiencies and strong cash flow. We have strategic initiatives designed to build on our current competitive advantages. We believe our primary competitive advantages are our: (1) global presence and brand strength; (2) best-in-class operating and distribution efficiencies; and (3) enhanced technology solutions. Our strategic financial objectives are intended to complement our mission and drive value for all our stakeholders. These financial objectives include: (1) top line revenue growth in excess of market growth; (2) improved operating margin; (3) a strong balance sheet and cash flows; and (4) effective capital allocation. Our strategy is designed to position the Company for long-term growth and enhance shareholder value. OUR SEGMENTS AUTOMOTIVE PARTS GROUP The Automotive Parts Group is the largest global automotive parts network, distributing automotive parts, accessories and service items in North America, Europe and Australasia. The Automotive Parts Group offers complete inventory, cataloging, marketing, training and other programs to the automotive aftermarket in each of these regions which distinguish this business from the competition. To complement its competitiveness in the automotive aftermarket, the Automotive Parts Group includes investments in select digital/e-commerce businesses across our operations. In North America, the Automotive Parts Group sells parts primarily under the National Automotive Parts Association ("NAPA") brand name through distribution centers and automotive parts stores ( auto parts stores or NAPA AUTO PARTS stores ). In Europe, Alliance Automotive Group ( AAG ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the 2 Table of Contents Company, is a leading distributor of vehicle parts, tools and workshop equipment with its primary operations in seven European countries. AAG is rolling out the NAPA brand of products and currently serves its customers under a variety of banners, including Groupauto, Precisium Group, Pi ces Auto, UAN, Alliance Automotive Group Germany and PartsPoint. In Australasia, the Automotive Parts Group serves the market primarily under the Repco and NAPA brand names. The Company s automotive parts network was expanded in 2021 with the acquisitions of various store groups and automotive operations in North America, Europe and Australasia. The Company s global automotive network sells to customers in both commercial do-it-for-me ( DIFM ) and retail do-it-yourself ( DIY ) segments of the market and covers substantially all global motor vehicle models. DIFM customers include local, regional and national repair centers, auto dealers, service stations and both private and public sector accounts. DIY customers are primarily served over-the-counter at our global stores or digitally. DIFM and DIY customers account for approximately 80% and 20% of the Automotive Parts Group s total sales, respectively. Distribution System . The following table details the breakdown of our automotive distribution network including our distribution centers, company-owned and independently-owned automotive parts stores by geographic region as of December 31, 2021. North America Europe Australasia Total Distribution centers 77 72 13 162 Company-owned stores 1,535 675 517 2,727 Independently-owned stores 5,119 1,648 6,767 Total locations 6,731 2,395 530 9,656 The mix of company-owned stores versus independently-owned stores in a given market varies based on several factors including our overall market strategy, the ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity, profitability and expected ultimate size of the market and our ability to provide operational support within a geographic region. In our Australasian operations, the Company goes to market with a company-owned store model. Independently-owned stores purchase inventory from company-operated distribution centers. These independently-owned stores are responsible for operating and managing their business, including operating costs and capital expenditures. The Company does not receive a royalty or franchise fee from independently-owned stores. The Company s 162 automotive parts distribution centers serve both company-owned and independently-owned stores located throughout the geographic regions in which we operate. Both types of automotive parts stores, in turn, sell to a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket. The Company s automotive operations have access to more than 650,000 different parts and related supply items. These items are purchased from hundreds of different suppliers, with approximately 47% of 2021 automotive parts inventories purchased from 10 major suppliers. Products . The Company s automotive distribution network provides access to hundreds of thousands of different replacement parts (other than body parts) for substantially all motor vehicle makes and models, including hybrid and electric vehicles, trucks, SUVs, buses, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and farm vehicles. Each part is cataloged and numbered for identification and accessibility. Significant inventories are carried to provide for fast and frequent deliveries to customers whose orders are often filled and shipped the same day they are received. The Company does not manufacture any of the products it distributes. The majority of products distributed in North America are under the NAPA name, a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA, which is important to the sales and marketing of these products. In Australasia and Europe, products are distributed under several brand names, including many of the national brands, as well as the NAPA name. In addition, the Company distributes replacement parts for small engines, farm equipment, marine equipment and heavy duty equipment. The Company s inventories also include accessory items for vehicles and equipment, and supply items used by a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket, such as repair shops, service stations, fleet operators, automobile and truck dealers, leasing companies, bus and truck lines, mass merchandisers, farms, and individuals who perform their own maintenance and parts installation. Traction, the Company's heavy duty parts business in North America sells products distributed under the HD Plus name, a proprietary line of automotive parts for heavy duty truck market. 3 Table of Contents Service to NAPA AUTO PARTS Stores . The Company believes that the quality and the range of services provided to its North American automotive parts customers constitute a significant advantage for its automotive parts distribution system. Such services include fast and frequent delivery, parts cataloging (including the use of electronic NAPA AUTO PARTS catalogs) and stock adjustments through a continuing parts classification system which, as initiated by the Company, allows independently-owned stores to return certain merchandise on a scheduled basis. The Company offers its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers various management aids, marketing aids and service on topics such as inventory control, cost analysis, accounting procedures, group insurance and retirement benefit plans, as well as marketing conferences and seminars, sales and advertising manuals and training programs. The Company has developed and refined an inventory classification system to determine optimum distribution center and auto parts store inventory levels for automotive parts stocking based on automotive registrations, usage rates, production statistics, technological advances, including predictive analytics, and other similar factors. This system, which undergoes continuous analytical review, is an integral part of the Company s inventory control procedures and comprises an important feature of the inventory management services that the Company makes available to its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers. The Company's North American operations have return privileges with most of its suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence. Over the last 25 years, losses to the Company from obsolescence have been insignificant and the Company attributes this to the successful operation of its classification system, which involves product return privileges with most of its suppliers. NAPA . The Company is the sole member of the National Automotive Parts Association, LLC a voluntary association formed in 1925 to promote the distribution of automotive parts for its members. NAPA, which neither buys nor sells automotive parts, functions as a trade association that develops marketing concepts and programs for its sole member. Among the automotive products purchased by the Company from various manufacturers for distribution are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised and promoted as NAPA lines. Generally, the Company is not required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so designated and it may purchase competitive lines from the same as well as other supply sources. The Company uses the federally registered trademark NAPA as part of the trade name of its distribution centers and parts stores. The Company funds NAPA s national advertising program, which is designed to increase public recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines. The Company is a party to, together with the former members of NAPA, a consent decree entered by the Federal District Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of territories among the Company and former NAPA members, fixing of prices or terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or determining the number and location of, or arrangements with, auto parts customers. Competition . The automotive parts distribution business is highly competitive. The Company competes with other large automotive parts retail chains, automobile manufacturers (some of which sell replacement parts for vehicles built by other manufacturers as well as those that they build themselves), automobile dealers, and warehouse clubs. In addition, the Company competes with the distributing outlets of parts manufacturers, mass merchandisers (including national retail chains) and other parts distributors and retailers, including online retailers. The Automotive Parts Group competes primarily on product offering, service, brand recognition and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in