Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 15 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 17 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. [Reserved] 19 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 32 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 71 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 71 Item 9B. Other Information 73 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 73 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 74 Item 11. Executive Compensation 75 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 75 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 75 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 76 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 77 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 81 Signatures 82 Table of Contents PART I. ITEM 1 . BUSINESS. Incorporated in the State of Georgia in 1928, Genuine Parts Company is a global service organization engaged in the distribution of automotive and industrial replacement parts. We serve our customers from more than 10,700 locations, primarily in North America, Europe, as well as Australia and New Zealand ("Australasia"). We offer outstanding service, an industry-leading assortment of replacement parts, extensive supply chain and distribution capabilities, and enhanced technology solutions. As used in this report, "we," "us," "our," "GPC," and the company refers to GPC and its subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated by the context; and the terms automotive parts and industrial parts refer to replacement parts in each respective category. OUR PURPOSE STRATEGY We keep the world moving this is our purpose and the foundation for how we do business. We are one global team unified by our mission to be an employer of choice, supplier of choice, valued customer, responsible corporate citizen and investment of choice for our shareholders. We strive to be a respected community member that gives back to the communities in which we operate. In order to execute this mission, we align our resources with strategic areas of focus for our operations. We focus on our market-leading automotive and industrial businesses to deliver profitable growth, operational efficiencies and strong cash flow. We are organized into two business segments: our Automotive Parts Group ( Automotive ) and our Industrial Parts Group ( Industrial ). In the automotive landscape, we see a positive long-term growth outlook across the markets we serve supported by an increase in miles driven, a growing and aging car parc, increasing vehicle complexity, and a growing opportunity with electric vehicles. In the industrial landscape, we see disruptions in the global supply chain creating opportunities with nearshoring, a strong outlook for automation and robotics solutions, the need for industrial expertise due to an aging technical workforce and diversified end market opportunities. Our business segments create a competitive differentiation in two distinct and growing markets with compelling shareholder value. We believe our primary competitive advantages are our: (1) global presence and brand strength; (2) industry-leading positions in two distinct, but complementary markets; (3) extensive supply chain and distribution capabilities; and (4) enhanced technology solutions. Our strategic financial objectives complement our mission and drive value for all our stakeholders. These financial objectives include: (1) revenue growth in excess of market growth; (2) continuously improving operating margins; (3) maintaining a strong balance sheet and cash flows; and (4) effective capital allocation. Our strategy is designed to position us for long-term profitable growth and enhance shareholder value. OUR SEGMENTS AUTOMOTIVE Our Automotive segment, which represents approximately 62% of total GPC net sales, is the largest global automotive network of parts and care. We distribute automotive parts, accessories and solutions in North America, Europe and Australasia. Our Automotive businesses offer complete inventory, cataloging, marketing, training and other programs to the aftermarket in each of these regions, distinguishing our business from the competition. Our global Automotive network sells to customers in both commercial do-it-for-me ( DIFM ) and retail do-it-yourself ( DIY ) segments of the market and covers substantially all global motor vehicle models. Our DIFM customers include local, regional and national repair centers, auto dealers, service stations and both private and public sector accounts. Our DIY customers are primarily served over-the-counter at our global stores or digitally. Our DIFM and DIY customers represent approximately 80% and 20% of total Automotive sales, respectively, and channel mix varies by geography. Our Automotive network consists of over one million customer locations, including installers, fleet, government, and major accounts. We have diversity amongst our customer base with no specific customer type representing an outsized concentration of our customer business. Our Automotive segment operates in a large and fragmented market with a total addressable market greater than $200 billion. The majority of the automotive aftermarket is comprised of small, local competitors which creates an opportunity to actively pursue strategic acquisitions and bolt-on store groups where we can bring scale, advanced technology, and supply chain efficiency to differentiate ourselves from competitors. 2 Table of Contents Our Automotive distribution network provides access to hundreds of thousands of replacement parts (other than body parts and tires) and accessory items for substantially all motor vehicle makes and models, including hybrid and electric vehicles, trucks, SUVs, buses, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, and for small engines, farm equipment, marine equipment and heavy duty equipment. We supply certain equipment and parts used by repair shops, service stations, fleet operators, automobile and truck dealers, leasing companies, bus and truck lines, mass merchandisers, farms, and individuals who perform their own maintenance and parts installation. Availability is a critical success factor in our business and our teams utilize data and analytics to have the right parts, in the right place and at the right time. The majority of products distributed in North America are under the NAPA name, a mark licensed to us by NAPA, which is important to the sales and marketing of these products. In Australasia and Europe, products are distributed under several brand names, including many of the national brands, as well as the NAPA name. Our Automotive operations have access to approximately 800,000 different parts and related supply items.These items are purchased from hundreds of different suppliers, with approximately 46% of 2023 automotive parts inventories purchased from 10 major suppliers. Regional Operations Products. In North America, our U.S. operations are headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia and our Canadian operations are headquartered in Montreal, Quebec. We distribute the majority of products in the U.S. and Canada under the NAPA name, which is important to our sales and marketing efforts. We go to market in North America primarily through company-owned and independent auto part stores, heavy vehicle stores, and specialty paint and equipment stores. Our North American auto parts stores sell a comprehensive range of automotive parts, including brakes, batteries, filters, engine components, tools, accessories, and fluids. Some locations offer custom services such as paint mixing, hydraulic hose assembly, battery testing, and key cutting. Our heavy vehicle stores sell parts, accessories, tools and equipment for servicing heavy duty and diesel vehicles, and we operate service and mechanical repair centers for heavy vehicles. We serve the heavy vehicle market under the banners Traction, TruckPro, TW, and Cadel. In Canada, our specialty stores operate paint and body care equipment and supply under the banner NAPA/CMAX and high-quality replacement parts and lubricants for imported vehicles under the banners Altrom and Auto Camping. Our online service in North America, NAPA online, provides a platform for customers to browse, purchase, and have automotive products delivered to their homes or businesses. Separately, we provide a NAPA Auto Care program across the U.S. and Canada for independent repair shop centers to increase visibility and receive part discounts and other benefits. We offer technical expertise by training and employing knowledgeable staff who can provide technical assistance, product recommendations, and guidance on automotive repairs and maintenance, and we organize DIY workshops and training sessions to educate customers on automotive repair and maintenance tasks. We believe that the quality and the range of services provided to our North American automotive parts customers constitute a significant advantage for our automotive parts distribution system. Our goal is to properly stock our locations with the right parts to ensure we provide quick and quality service to our customers whose orders are often filled and shipped the same day they are received. Our services also include up to date parts cataloging (including the use of electronic NAPA Auto Parts catalogs) and stock adjustments through a continuous parts classification system which, as initiated by us, allows independently-owned stores to return certain merchandise on a scheduled basis. We offer our NAPA Auto Parts stores various management aids, marketing aids and service on topics such as inventory control, cost analysis, accounting procedures, group insurance and retirement benefit plans, as well as marketing conferences and seminars, sales and advertising manuals and training programs. We have developed and refined an inventory classification system to determine the most advantageous distribution center and auto parts store inventory levels for automotive parts stocking based on automotive registrations, usage rates, production statistics, technological advances, including predictive analytics, and other similar factors. This system, which undergoes continuous analytical review, is an integral part of our inventory control procedures and comprises an important feature of the inventory management services that we make available to our NAPA Auto Parts stores. Losses from inventory obsolescence have not been significant historically and we attribute this to the successful operation of our classification system, which includes product return privileges with most of our suppliers. In Europe, we operate Alliance Automotive Group ( AAG ), headquartered in London, England. Europe is predominantly a DIFM market, with very few over-the-counter sales. We serve thousands of vehicle repairers, body shops and auto-centers from over 2,000 distributor outlets across Europe, supported by a logistics infrastructure of national and regional distribution centers. Our distributor outlets include company-owned and independent auto part stores and outlets, heavy vehicle outlets, and online and specialty outlets. Our European banners include Groupauto, Precisium and Pi ces Auto in France; Coler, Busch, Hennig and Knoll in Germany; Groupauto, UAN, FPS Distribution, APEC Braking, BTN Turbo, Platinum International, Alliance Automotive U.K. Subsidiaries, and J S Automotive Distributors in the U.K. and Republic of Ireland; PartsPoint in Belgium and the Netherlands; Lausan, Soulima and Gaudi in Spain and Portugal; and GroupAuto in Poland. In France, we also provide parts and services for heavy duty and diesel vehicles under the Todd banner and we operate Back2Car, which distributes recycled car 3 Table of Contents parts. In the Netherlands and Belgium, we offer programs for repair shops that want to join our installer network to increase their visibility and brand awareness while remaining independent. Separately in Europe, we operate WinParts, an online platform for customers to browse, purchase, and have automotive products delivered to their homes or businesses. In Australia and New Zealand, we operate GPC Asia Pacific the region s largest automotive aftermarket parts supplier. We resell and distribute automotive replacement parts, accessories and related tools and equipment through a network of company-owned retail stores and advanced distribution centers. GPC Asia Pacific operates three main lines of business: Automotive Australia, Automotive New Zealand and Two Wheel Division. Automotive Australia and Automotive New Zealand operate our auto parts stores in Australia and New Zealand under two banners: (i) Repco, which operates a nationwide dual-format store network across both countries, providing parts, equipment, tools, batteries, technology, and oil to both trade and retail customers, and (ii) NAPA Auto Parts, which offers automotive electrical and mechanical parts to trade, fleet, industrial, commercial and mining specialist customers. Both Repco and NAPA compliment their network with the market's leading digital capability, providing our customers with a seamless omni-channel transactional capability. Our Two Wheel Division wholesales and retails motorcycle parts, apparel and accessories, with the market's leading range of the world s most respected motorcycle brands, many of which are supplied under exclusive distribution agreements. Two Wheel Division operates two wholesale banners (McLeod Accessories and John Titman Racing), and also operates Australia's largest and fastest growing motorcycle accessories and apparel retailer (AMX Super Stores). GPC Asia Pacific also operates a number of direct-to-consumer digital businesses, including Sparesbox, STEDI and 4WD247. Distribution Network. Our independently-owned and company-owned stores located in every region are sourced by our distribution networks. Both types of automotive stores sell to a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket. We strategically locate our stores close to installers, which are our primary customers, and we deliver products to them routinely throughout each business day by truck. Traditional over-the-counter retail sales make up a smaller part of our overall business and vary by geography. Independently-owned stores purchase inventory from company-operated distribution centers. These independently-owned stores are responsible for operating and managing their businesses, including operating costs and capital expenditures. We generally do not receive a royalty or franchise fee from independently-owned stores. Independently-owned stores, which represent approximately 68% of our total automotive stores, provide a competitive advantage by allowing for local market knowledge and insights, enabling quicker adaptation to local customer preferences. The mix of independently-owned versus company-owned stores in a given market varies based on several factors including our overall market strategy, the ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity, profitability and expected ultimate size of the market and our ability to provide operational support within a geographic region. In our Australasian operations, we go to market with a company-owned store model. During 2023, we expanded our network with the addition of 173 net new stores during the year. The following table details the breakdown of our Automotive distribution network including our distribution centers, company-owned and independently-owned automotive stores by geographic region as of December 31, 2023. North America Europe Australasia Total Distribution Centers 77 81 14 172 Company-Owned Stores 1,797 798 551 3,146 Independently-Owned Stores 4,961 1,698 6,659 Total Automotive Locations 6,835 2,577 565 9,977 Installer Networks . We provide programs for repair centers to join regional networks to leverage our branding and supply network to increase their visibility and awareness while remaining independent. The largest of these is our independent NAPA Auto Care center network in the U.S. and Canada, which includes over 18,000 locations nationwide. NAPA . We are the sole member of the National Automotive Parts Association, LLC a voluntary association formed in 1925 to promote the distribution of automotive parts for its members. NAPA, which neither buys nor sells automotive parts, functions as a trade association that develops marketing concepts and programs for its sole member. Among the automotive products purchased by us from various manufacturers for distribution are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised and promoted as NAPA lines. Generally, we are not required to purchase any specific quantity of parts and we may purchase competitive lines from the same as well as other supply sources. 4 Table of Contents We use the federally registered trademark NAPA as part of the trade name of many of our distribution centers and parts stores in the U.S., Canada and Australia. We fund NAPA s advertising program, which is designed to increase public recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines. We are a party to, together with the former members of NAPA, a consent decree entered by the Federal District Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of territories among us and former NAPA members, fixing of prices or terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or determining the number and location of, or arrangements with, auto parts customers. Competition. The automotive aftermarket is highly competitive. We compete with other national, regional and local automotive parts chains, automobile manufacturers (some of which sell replacement parts for vehicles built by other manufacturers as well as those that they build themselves), automobile dealers, and warehouse clubs. In addition, we compete with the distributing outlets of parts manufacturers, mass merchandisers (including national retail chains) and other parts distributors and retailers, including online retailers. We compete primarily on availability of product offering, service, brand recognition and price. Our automotive competitors include AutoZone, Inc., O-Reilly Auto Parts, Inc., Advance Auto Parts, Inc., LKQ Corporation and Bapcor, among many others. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in