ITEM 1. BUSINESS 4 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 16 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 29 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 29 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 30 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 32 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 32 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 48 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 50 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 103 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 103 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 104 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 104 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 105 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 105 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 105 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 105 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 106 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 106 SIGNATURES 110 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTICE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements we use in this report, and in some of the documents we incorporate by reference in this report, contain forward-looking statements concerning our business operations, economic performance and financial condition, including in particular: our business strategy and means to implement the strategy; measures of future results of operations, such as revenues, expenses, operating margins, income tax rates, and earnings per share; other operating metrics such as shares outstanding and capital expenditures; the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business; our success and timing in developing and introducing new services and expanding our business; and statements about the benefits of our acquisitions, including future financial and operating results, the company s plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and the successful integration of our acquisitions or completion of anticipated benefits and strategic initiatives. You can sometimes identify forward-looking statements by our use of the words "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plan," "forecast," "guidance" and similar expressions. For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe that the plans and expectations reflected in or suggested by our forward-looking statements are reasonable, those statements are based on a number of assumptions, estimates, projections or plans that are inherently subject to significant risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, cannot be foreseen and reflect future business decisions that are subject to change. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that our plans and expectations will be achieved. Our actual revenues, revenue growth rates and margins, other results of operations and shareholder values could differ materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements as a result of many known and unknown factors, many of which are beyond our ability to predict or control. Important factors, among others, that may otherwise cause actual events or results to differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements or historical performance include the effects of global economic, political, market, health and social events or other conditions, including the effects and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken in response; our ability to meet our liquidity needs in light of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise; the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against the Company or our directors; difficulties, delays and higher than anticipated costs related to integrating the businesses of Global Payments and Total System Services, Inc., including with respect to implementing controls to prevent a material security breach of any internal systems or to successfully manage credit and fraud risks in business units; the effect of a security breach or operational failure on the Company's business; failing to comply with the applicable requirements of Visa, Mastercard or other payment networks or card schemes or changes in those requirements; the ability to maintain Visa and Mastercard registration and financial institution sponsorship; the ability to retain, develop and hire key personnel; the diversion of management s attention from ongoing business operations; the continued availability of capital and financing; increased competition in the markets in which we operate and our ability to increase our market share in existing markets and expand into new markets; our ability to safeguard our data; risks associated with our indebtedness, foreign currency exchange and interest rate risks; our ability to meet environmental, social and governance targets, goals and commitments; the potential effects of climate change including natural disasters; the effects of new or changes in current laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards on us or our partners and customers, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; and other events beyond our control, and other factors presented in "Item 1A - Risk Factors" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which we advise you to review. These cautionary statements qualify all of our forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and should not be relied upon as representing our plans and expectations as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update or revise forward-looking statements at some time in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to our forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1- BUSINESS Global Payments Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are referred to collectively as "Global Payments," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us," unless the context requires otherwise. Introduction We are a leading payments technology company delivering innovative software and services to approximately 4.0 million merchant locations and more than 1,350 financial institutions across more than 170 countries throughout North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. Our technologies, services and team member expertise allow us to provide a broad range of solutions that enable our customers to operate their businesses more efficiently across a variety of channels around the world. Headquartered in Georgia with approximately 25,000 team members worldwide, Global Payments is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of the S P 500. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "GPN." Industry Overview The payments technology industry provides financial institutions, businesses and consumers with payment processing services, merchant acceptance solutions and related information and other value-added services. The industry continues to grow as a result of wider merchant acceptance and increased use of credit and debit cards, advances in payment solutions and processing technology and migration to ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. The proliferation of credit and debit cards, as well as other digital payment solutions, has made the acceptance of digital payments a necessity for many businesses, regardless of size, in order to remain competitive. The COVID-19 pandemic has further accelerated the use of digital payments, the need for development of technologies and digital-based solutions and expansion of ecommerce, omnichannel and contactless payment solutions. This increased use of cards and the availability of more sophisticated technology services to all market segments has resulted in an increasingly competitive and specialized industry. Strategy We seek to leverage the adoption of, and transition to, card and digital-based payments by expanding our share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and service innovation, as well as through acquisitions to improve our offerings and scale. We also seek to enter new markets through acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures around the world. We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people to increase our penetration in existing markets. The key tenets of our strategy include the following: Leading with technology and innovation to deepen our competitive advantages; Further scaling the four pillars of our strategy: software-driven focus, ecommerce omnichannel solutions, exposure to faster growth markets and business-to-business ("B2B") payments; Delivering commerce enablement solutions globally to broaden our leading position as a sales-driven, product-led company; Providing frictionless, best-in-class customer experiences, creating longer-term relationships; Nurturing our culture, values and diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives to attract, retain and motivate exceptional team members; and Supporting our communities as a socially responsible company with purpose and understanding. 4 Table of Contents Competitive Strengths We believe that our competitive strengths include the following: Global Footprint and Distribution - Our worldwide presence allows us to focus our investments on markets with promising gross domestic product fundamentals and favorable secular trends, makes us more attractive to customers with international operations and exposes us to emerging innovations that we can adopt globally, while diversifying our economic risk. Technology Solutions - We provide innovative technology-based solutions, including enterprise software solutions, that enable our customers to operate their business more efficiently and simplify the payments process, regardless of the channel through which the transaction occurs. We believe our robust technology solutions will continue to differentiate us in the marketplace and position us for continued growth. Scalable Operating Environment and Technology Infrastructure - We operate with a multi-channel, global technology infrastructure, which provides scalable and innovative service offerings and a consistent service experience to our merchants, customers, financial institutions and other partners worldwide, while also driving sustainable operating efficiencies. Strong, Long-lasting Partner Relationships - We have established strong, long-lasting relationships with many financial institutions, enterprise software providers, value-added resellers and other technology-based payment service providers, which enable us to deliver a set of diverse solutions to our customers. Disciplined Acquisition Approach - Our proven track record for selectively and successfully sourcing, completing and integrating acquired businesses in existing and new markets positions us well for future growth and as an attractive partner for potential acquisition targets. Recent Acquisitions On June 10, 2021, we acquired Zego, a real estate technology company that provides a comprehensive resident experience management software and digital commerce solutions to property managers, primarily in the United States, for cash consideration of approximately $933 million . This acquisition aligns with our technology-enabled, software driven strategy and expands our business into a new vertical market. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed other strategic business acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $963 million. Our acquisition of MineralTree, a leading provider of accounts payable automation and B2B payments solutions, expands our target addressable market and provides incremental avenues for growth in one of the most attractive technology markets. Our acquisitions of the Bankia merchant services business and Worldline's PayOne Austrian acquiring business deepen our presence in Europe and expand the scale of our distribution and technologies. On September 18, 2019, we consummated our merger with Total System Services, Inc. ("TSYS") (the "Merger") for total purchase consideration of $24.5 billion, primarily funded with shares of our common stock. Prior to the Merger, TSYS was a leading global payments provider, offering seamless, secure and innovative solutions to issuers, merchants and consumers. See "Note 2 Acquisitions" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these acquisitions. Business Segments We operate in three reportable segments: Merchant Solutions, Issuer Solutions and Business and Consumer Solutions. See "Note 16 Segment Information" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information about our segments, including revenues, operating income and depreciation and amortization by segment as well as financial information about geographic areas in which we operate. Our foreign operations subject us to various risks, including, without limitation, currency exchange risks and political, economic and regulatory risks. See "Item 1A - Risk Factors" for additional information about these risks. 5 Table of Contents Merchant Solutions Segment Through our Merchant Solutions segment, we provide payments technology and software solutions to customers globally. Our payment technology solutions are similar around the world in that we enable our customers to accept card, check and digital-based payments. Our comprehensive offerings include, but are not limited to, authorization, settlement and funding services, customer support, chargeback resolution, terminal rental, sales and deployment, payment security services, consolidated billing and reporting. In addition, we offer a wide array of enterprise software solutions that streamline business operations to customers in numerous vertical markets. We also provide a variety of value-added solutions and services, including specialty point-of-sale software, analytic and customer engagement, human capital management and payroll and reporting that assist our customers with driving demand and operating their businesses more efficiently. Our value proposition is to provide distinctive high-quality, responsive and secure services to all of our customers. We distribute our Merchant Solutions services globally through multiple technology-enabled and relationship-led distribution channels and target customers in many vertical markets located throughout North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. The majority of our revenues is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on the payment type or the market. We also earn software subscription and licensing fees, as well as other fees based on specific value-added services that may be unrelated to the number or value of transactions. Distribution Channels In the Merchant Solutions segment, we actively market and provide our payment services, enterprise software solutions and other value-added services directly to our customers through a variety of technology-enabled and relationship-led distribution channels. Technology-Enabled. Many of our payment solutions are technology-enabled in that they incorporate or are incorporated into innovative, technology-driven solutions, including enterprise software solutions, designed to enable merchants to better manage their businesses. Our technology-enabled solutions represent a substantial component of our revenues. Our technology-enabled distribution includes integrated and vertical market software solutions and ecommerce and omnichannel solutions, each as described below. Integrated Solutions. Our integrated solutions provide advanced payments technology that is deeply embedded into business management software solutions owned by our technology partners who operate in numerous vertical markets, primarily in North America. We grow our integrated solutions business when new or existing merchants enable payments services through enterprise software solutions sold by our partners, including existing and new partners. Vertical Markets Software Solutions . Our vertical markets software solutions provide advanced payments technology that is deeply integrated into business enterprise software solutions that we own. We distribute our vertical markets software solutions primarily through the following businesses: ACTIVE Network . Through ACTIVE Network, we deliver cloud-based enterprise software, including payment technology solutions, to event organizers in the communities, government services and health and fitness markets. AdvancedMD . Through AdvancedMD, we provide cloud-based enterprise solutions to small-to-medium sized ambulatory care physician practices in the United States. Education Solutions . We offer integrated payment solutions specifically designed for all levels of educational institutions. At the university level, we offer integrated commerce solutions, payment services, higher education loan services, credentialing services and open- and closed-loop payment solutions. For kindergarten through 12 th grade, we provide ecommerce and in-person payments, cafeteria POS solutions and back-office management software, hardware, technical support and training. Gaming. We offer a comprehensive suite of solutions to the gaming market in North America. These solutions include credit and debit card cash advance, cashless advance, iGaming solutions, traditional and digital check processing and other services specific to this market. 6 Table of Contents Xenial . Through Xenial, we offer leading-edge enterprise software and hardware solutions, integrated with our payment services and other adjacent business service applications, to the restaurant and hospitality vertical markets. Ecommerce and Omnichannel . We offer ecommerce and omnichannel solutions to our customers that seamlessly blend payment gateway services, retail payment acceptance infrastructure and payment technology service capabilities through a unified commerce platform to allow merchants to accept various payment methods through any channel across our geographical footprint. We sell ecommerce and omnichannel solutions to customers of all sizes, from small businesses accepting payments in a single country to enterprise and multinational businesses that have complex payment needs and operate retail and online businesses in multiple countries. Relationship-Led. Through our relationship-led direct sales force worldwide, as well as bank and other referral partnerships, we offer our payments technology services, software and other value-added solutions directly to customers across numerous verticals in the markets we serve. We offer high-touch services that provide our customers with reliable and secure solutions coupled with high-quality and responsive support services. Although our primary focus is on building high-quality, direct relationships with merchants, we also provide our services to merchants through independent sales organizations ("ISOs") and financial institutions. Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing Credit and debit card transaction processing includes the processing of the world's major international card brands, including American Express, Discover Card ("Discover"), JCB, Mastercard, UnionPay International and Visa, as well as certain domestic debit networks, such as Interac in Canada. Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry. During a typical payment transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on payments technology companies, such as Global Payments, to facilitate transaction processing services, including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback resolution. We process funds settlement under two models: a sponsorship model and a direct membership model. Under the sponsorship model, member clearing financial institutions ("Members") sponsor us and require our adherence to the standards of the networks. In these markets, we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements with financial institution sponsors. These agreements allow us to route transactions under the Members' control and identification numbers to clear card transactions through Mastercard and Visa. In this model, the standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant has been funded. Under the direct membership model, we are direct members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship. Under this model, we route and clear transactions directly through the card brand s network and are not restricted from performing funds settlement. Otherwise, we process these transactions similarly to how we process transactions in the sponsorship model. We are required to adhere to the standards of the various networks in which we are direct members. We maintain relationships with financial institutions, which may also serve as our Member sponsors for other card brands or in other markets, to assist with funds settlement. How a Card Transaction Works A typical payment transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a point-of-sale ("POS") terminal card reader or mobile device card reader, which may be sold or leased to the merchant and serviced by us. Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device or ecommerce portal by one of a number of services that we offer directly or through a value-added reseller. The card reader electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and transaction amount. After the card and transaction information is captured, the POS device automatically connects to our network through the internet or other communication channel in order to receive authorization of the transaction. For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction amount will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits. In a debit card transaction, we obtain authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has access to sufficient funds for the transaction amount. 7 Table of Contents As an illustration, shown below in the sponsorship model, on a $100.00 card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member, our sponsor, (indirectly through the card network) $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50 referred to as an interchange fee. The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder's monthly credit card statement. The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00. The net settlement after this transaction would require us to advance the Member $1.50. After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage of the transaction amount, or merchant discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our fee from the transaction. If our discount rate for the merchant in the above example was 2.00%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 after the end of the month for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for $1.50 in interchange fees and retain $0.50 as our fees for the transaction. Under some arrangements, we remit the net amount of $98.00 to the merchant, rather than funding the full $100.00 and subsequently billing the merchant at the end of the month. Discount rates vary based on negotiations with merchants and the economic characteristics of transactions. Interchange rates also vary based on the economic characteristics of individual transactions. Accordingly, our fee per transaction varies across our merchant base and is subject to change based on changes in discount rates and interchange rates. Our profit on the transaction reflects the fee received less payment network fees and operating expenses, including systems cost to process the transaction and commissions paid to our sales force or ISO. Payment network fees are charged by the card brands, in part, based on the value of transactions processed through their networks. Issuer Solutions Segment Through our Issuer Solutions segment, we provide solutions that enable financial institutions and other financial service providers to manage their card portfolios, reduce technical complexity and overhead and offer a seamless experience for cardholders on a single platform. In addition, we provide flexible commercial payments and ePayables solutions that support B2B payment processes for businesses and governments. We also offer complementary services, including account management and servicing, fraud solution services, analytics and business intelligence, cards, statements and correspondence, customer contact solutions and risk management solutions. Issuer Solutions segment revenues are derived from long-term processing contracts with financial institutions and other financial services providers. Payment processing services revenues are generated primarily from charges based on the number of accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, statements generated and/or mailed, managed services, cards embossed and mailed, and other processing services for cardholder accounts on file. Most of these contracts 8 Table of Contents have prescribed annual minimums, penalties for early termination, and service level agreements that may affect contractual fees if specific service levels are not achieved. Issuer Solutions segment revenues also include loyalty redemption services and professional services. Business and Consumer Solutions Segment Our Business and Consumer Solutions segment provides general purpose reloadable ("GPR") prepaid debit and payroll cards, demand deposit accounts and other financial service solutions to the underbanked and other consumers and businesses in the United States and parts of Europe through our Netspend and other brands. Through our Business and Consumer Solutions segment, we provide customers with access to depository accounts insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") with a menu of features specifically tailored to their needs. The Business and Consumer Solutions segment has an extensive distribution and reload network comprised of financial service centers and other retail locations throughout the United States, and is a program manager for FDIC-insured depository institutions that provide the services that the Business and Consumer Solutions segment develops, promotes and distributes. Business and Consumer Solutions currently has active agreements with four card issuing banks. Additionally, our Business and Consumer Solutions segment provides B2B payment services and software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) offerings that automate key procurement processes, including invoice capture, coding and approval, and enable virtual cards and integrated payments options across a variety of key vertical markets. The Business and Consumer Solutions segment markets its services through multiple distribution channels, including alternative financial service providers, traditional retailers, direct-to-consumer and online marketing programs and contractual relationships with corporate employers. Business and Consumer Solutions segment revenues principally consist of fees collected from cardholders and fees generated by cardholder activity in connection with the programs that we manage. Customers are typically charged a fee for each purchase transaction made using their cards, unless the customer is on a monthly or annual service plan, in which case the customer is instead charged a monthly or annual subscription fee, as applicable. Customers are also charged a monthly maintenance fee after a specified period of inactivity. We also charge fees associated with additional services offered in connection with programs we manage, including the use of overdraft features, a variety of bill payment options, card replacement, foreign exchange and card-to-card transfers of funds initiated through our call centers. Revenues are recognized net of fees charged by the payment networks for services they provide in processing transactions routed through them. We have recently commenced a strategic evaluation of the consumer portion of this segment with the intent to focus on our growing B2B portfolio. Competition Our Merchant Solutions segment competes with financial institutions, merchant acquirers and other financial technology companies who provide businesses with merchant acquiring services and related services. As of December 31, 2021, we believe that we were one of the largest merchant acquirers in the small and medium-sized business segment (merchants who have less than $5 million in annual bankcard sales volume) in the United States. In the United States, we compete primarily with Fiserv, Inc. (and its alliances) ("Fiserv"), Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS"), Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, Elavon, Inc., a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A and Block Inc. (formerly known as Square, Inc.). While these are our primary competitors, ou