Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 Information about our Executive Officers 28 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant&#x2019;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. [Reserved] 31 Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 78 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 78 Item 9B. Other Information 79 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 79 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 80 Item 11. Executive Compensation 80 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 81 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 82 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 82 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 83 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 85 Signatures 87 2 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT WITH RESPE CT TO FORWARD-LOOKING COMMENTS The discussions set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company&#x2019;s management, as of the date of this Annual Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. In addition, management may make forward-looking statements orally or in other writings, including, but not limited to, in press releases, in the annual report to shareholders and in the Company&#x2019;s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as &#x201c;expects,&#x201d; &#x201c;anticipates,&#x201d; &#x201c;believes&#x201d; or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. Forward-looking statements include any discussion of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in &#x201c;Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations.&#x201d; Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date. If any of management&#x2019;s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Company&#x2019;s actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified under Item 1A &#x201c;Risk Factors.&#x201d; Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. Except as may be required by law, the Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments. 3 Part I Item 1. Business Company Overview For more than 30 years, Garmin Ltd. and subsidiaries (collectively, the &#x201c;Company&#x201d; or &#x201c;Garmin&#x201d;) have pioneered new wireless devices, many of which feature location technology such as Global Positioning System (GPS), and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin serves five primary markets, fitness, outdoor, aviation, marine, and auto, and we design, develop, manufacture, market, and distribute a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable, and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications, sensor-based and information products for these markets. Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 251 million products, which included more than 16 million products delivered during fiscal 2021. Available Information Garmin&#x2019;s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmin&#x2019;s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmin&#x2019;s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#x201c;SEC&#x201d;). The SEC maintains a website ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The reference to Garmin&#x2019;s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. This discussion of Garmin should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, &#x201c;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#x201d; under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Products Garmin offers a broad range of solutions across its reported segments as outlined below. In general, Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. Many of the Company&#x2019;s products utilize Global Positioning System (GPS) and other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) receivers to support product features such as navigation, global positioning, and tracking. GPS is a United States owned satellite network constellation that supports global positioning, communication, and navigation, providing precise geographic location and related data to both commercial and government GPS receivers. Access to and use of the GPS systems commercial signal bands is provided free of charge. In addition to GPS, Garmin products utilize other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) including the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), the European Union Galileo system (Galileo), and the Chinese BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS), and satellite based augmentation systems (SBAS) including the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), the Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) and Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS), and the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service. Some of Garmin&#x2019;s products utilize a combination of global navigation satellite systems to improve navigational fix, which results in improved accuracy. On a subscription basis, certain Garmin products offer access to private satellite networks such as the Iridium satellite network, a synchronized constellation of 66 low Earth orbit (LEO) satellites offering global data communication coverage. Iridium&#x2019;s use of this constellation gives it the ability to span the entire globe, offering 100 percent coverage worldwide to enable reliable satellite-based communication. 4 Fitness Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in health, wellness, and fitness activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Fitness segment to consumers around the world: &#x2022; Running and Multi-sport Watches: Garmin running and multi-sport watches are offered under the Forerunner product series. The Forerunner series offers GPS-enabled watches with features unique to each model. Depending on the model, features include wrist-based heart rate monitoring, wrist-based pulse oximeter, music storage capabilities, mapping capabilities, LTE Connectivity, and Garmin Pay contactless payment. &#x2022; Cycling Products: Garmin cycling products include cycling computers, power meters, bike radars, and smart lights. Additionally, Garmin offers Tacx indoor training equipment including smart and basic trainers, and a smart bike. &#x2022; Activity Tracking and Smartwatch Devices: Garmin offers a wide range of activity tracking devices and smartwatch devices. The Garmin product offerings include activity tracking fitness bands, GPS-enabled smartwatches, and fashion-forward hybrid smartwatches with analog style displays. The activity tracking and smartwatch devices offered by Garmin are the v&#xed;vomove series, v&#xed;voactive series, v&#xed;vosmart series, v&#xed;vofit series, Venu series, and Lily series. Each series of activity tracking and smartwatch devices offered has unique features, all to enhance and promote healthy and active lifestyles. Features of the activity tracking and smartwatch devices, depending on the series and model, include Garmin Pay, music storage capabilities, and 24/7 health monitoring. &#x2022; Fitness and Cycling Accessories: Garmin offers a wide range of fitness and cycling accessories including chest strap heart rate monitors, cycling speed and cadence sensors, and smart scales. &#x2022; Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile: Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile are web and mobile platforms where users can track and analyze their fitness, activities and workouts, and wellness data. In addition, users can share their accomplishments, create training groups and group challenges, and get feedback and encouragement from the Connect community. &#x2022; Connect IQ: The Connect IQ application development platform enables third parties to create a variety of applications that run on a wide assortment of Garmin devices. Connect IQ provides developers with an easy-to-use software development kit (SDK) to facilitate development efforts in creating watch faces, applications, widgets, and data fields. These third-party applications are available for download by Garmin users via their mobile phone or computer and run on their compatible Garmin wearable, bike computer, golf device, or outdoor handheld. Outdoor Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Outdoor segment to consumers around the world: &#x2022; Adventure Watches: Garmin adventure watches include the f&#x113;nix series, Instinct series, tactix series, the Enduro series, the Descent series, and the MARQ collection. The f&#x113;nix series offers premium multisport smartwatches with features such as wrist-based biometrics, music storage capabilities, preloaded full-color purpose-built adventure mapping of topography, ski resorts, and golf courses, Garmin Pay , and solar charging, depending on model. The Instinct series offers a rugged and reliable outdoor GPS smartwatch with built-in sports apps, heart rate sensor, smart connectivity, wellness data, and solar charging, depending on model. The tactix series provides preloaded full-color topographical maps and tactical-inspired features. The Enduro series offers a Power Glass solar charging lens that extends battery life and advanced training features for extreme endurance athletes. The Descent series are watch style dive computers that offer divers GPS navigation, multiple dive modes, support for up to six gasses, as well as integrated air pressure monitoring. The MARQ series is a collection of luxury smart tool watches with premium materials and features unique to each watch. 5 &#x2022; Outdoor Handhelds: Garmin offers outdoor handhelds under the Rino , Montana , eTrex , GPSMAP , Foretrex , and inReach product lines. Handhelds range from basic waypoints navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, preloaded maps, wi-fi and smartphone connectivity, two-way satellite communication and other features. Each series of products is designed to serve unique niche markets. Handhelds with inReach include global satellite technology which, when combined with an active service plan, offers 2-way text messaging, S.O.S. capabilities and weather forecasts while anywhere in the world. &#x2022; Golf Devices and Mobile App: Garmin golf devices are offered under the Approach product line. The Approach series includes handhelds, wearables, club sensors, launch monitors, golf simulators, and laser ranging devices. Over 42,000 preloaded worldwide golf courses are available to be utilized on certain Garmin golf devices. Handheld and wearable golf devices provide yardage distances to the front, back, and middle of the green. In addition to course maps, the Approach R10 portable launch monitor utilizes radar to provide swing metrics including estimated carry and roll, club head speed, ball speed, smash factor, and swing tempo, as well as the ability to play a simulated round of any of our 42,000 worldwide mapped courses when paired with the Garmin Golf mobile app. The mobile app also offers scoring, shot tracking, and performance tracking features, in addition to the Home Tee Hero virtual round simulator for subscribers. &#x2022; Dog Tracking and Training Devices : Garmin offers a variety of dog tracking and training devices, including those under the Alpha , PRO, BarkLimiter , and Delta product lines. Aviation Garmin designs, manufactures, and markets a wide range of innovative aircraft avionics solutions to the broad and diverse aviation sector. Avionics are sold directly into original equipment manufacturer (OEM) applications as well as through Garmin&#x2019;s worldwide dealer network for retrofit installations on existing aircraft. Garmin has developed growth-minded products and technologies serving general aviation, business aviation, rotorcraft, and experimental/light sport markets. Our solutions are available for all aircraft categories and classes; from small piston and electric-powered general aviation aircraft, to large business jet aircraft, as well as a wide-ranging variety of helicopters serving critical public service and oil and gas missions, to name a few. Garmin also provides innovative products and software-as-a-service solutions to other growth markets such as commercial air-carrier, military and defense, electric aircraft, and Advanced Air Mobility / eVTOL. By offering products such as Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) and mission-optimized solutions to military and defense contractors/customers, and products tested and optimized for high duty cycle commercial aviation operations, Garmin is emerging as a strong competitor in these rapidly evolving business spaces. Garmin currently offers the following products, systems, and services to the global aviation market: &#x2022; Integrated Flight Decks: Known for defining the integrated flight deck (IFD) space in general aviation and light business aviation applications, Garmin offers OEM and retrofit IFD systems scaled for any size aircraft and rotorcraft, featuring communication and navigation, weather information, terrain and traffic awareness and avoidance, aircraft performance, and automated safety solutions. &#x2022; Electronic Flight Displays and Instrumentation: Garmin flight display and instrument solutions can serve as primary or back-up systems, which also provide a wealth of valuable information in the cockpit, dramatically increasing situational awareness and capability. &#x2022; Navigation and Communication Products: Garmin offers a wide range of integrated and stand-alone GPS navigation and very high frequency (VHF) radio communication products, with a variety of capabilities, available for all market segments. 6 &#x2022; Automatic Flight Control Systems and Safety-Enhancing Technologies: Garmin offers scalable flight control systems with unique integrated safety features for aircraft and rotorcraft. Our Autopilots, and Autonom&#xed; safety-enhancing solutions cover a wide spectrum of aircraft, from large-cabin business jets and helicopters, to light general aviation aircraft. Garmin&#x2019;s award-winning Autoland system will autonomously land the aircraft in the event the pilot is not able to do so, and Smart Glide will assist a pilot to get to the nearest airport in the event of the loss of engine power. We also offer an innovative smart rudder bias system that can help the pilot maintain control of a twin-engine aircraft in the event of an engine failure. &#x2022; Audio Control Systems: Garmin produces a broad array of cutting-edge audio systems, including panel-mount and remote-mounted units, incorporating features such as Bluetooth connectivity, voice command technology, and integrated intercoms. &#x2022; Engine Indication Systems: Garmin offers a variety of advanced engine indication systems for piston and turbine-powered aircraft with comprehensive data-logging capabilities as well as wireless data offloading, cloud storage and analysis capability through our flyGarmin.com online services portal. &#x2022; Traffic Awareness and Avoidance Solutions: Garmin offers an array of traffic advisory and collision avoidance systems, including TAS and TCAS / ACAS solutions, with applications in all types of aircraft. &#x2022; ADS-B and Transponders: Garmin offers a full lineup of ADS-B and transponder solutions, including ADS-B &#x201c;Out&#x201d; compliant solutions as well as ADS-B &#x201c;In&#x201d; and Bluetooth capable units that allow pilots to connect to their mobile device to display ADS-B traffic and weather. &#x2022; Weather Information and Avoidance Solutions: Garmin offers multiple weather solutions, including onboard Doppler digital radar products, along with satellite-based SiriusXM, ground-based ADS-B, as well as Garmin Connext global satellite weather options. &#x2022; Datalink and Connectivity: Garmin datalink and connectivity solutions allow pilots to download global weather data, communication via text/voice, as well as select mobile apps to transfer flight plans, manage database subscriptions, and stream weather and traffic data from installed avionics solutions. &#x2022; Portable GPS Navigators and Wearables: Garmin offers portable GPS navigators, smartwatches for pilots, satellite communicators, and portable traffic and weather solutions, providing pilots tools they can take with them from aircraft to aircraft. &#x2022; Services: Garmin offers a variety of services products to the aviation market. Web and mobile app-based products offered via FltPlan.com and our Garmin Pilot electronic flight bag application, help pilots plan, file, fly, and log flights and offer a wealth of information across all phases of flight. Business and commercial aviation customers also benefit from our safety management system, runway analysis and performance data, weight and balance, obstacle clearance, load planning, and navigation database solutions. Garmin continues to provide industry-leading product support, and offers a wide selection of databases, training products, extended warranties, and subscription services for all aviation segments. Marine Garmin is a leading manufacturer of recreational marine electronics and offers a broad range of products. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Marine segment to consumers around the world: &#x2022; Chartplotters and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs): Garmin offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP and ECHOMAP product lines. The offerings range from 4-inch portable and fix-mounted products to 24-inch fully integrated Glass Helm offerings and include wireless connectivity to the ActiveCaptain mobile app. &#x2022; Cartography : Garmin is a premier supplier of cartography for the recreational marine market. Including the Garmin-owned Navionics branded charting products, Garmin is a leading supplier of recreational marine content for most major chartplotters and MFDs on the market. 7 &#x2022; Fishfinders: Garmin offers an advanced line of fishfinders, the Striker series, which incorporates GPS technology enabling Garmin Quickdraw Contours, and wireless features through the ActiveCaptain and StrikerCast mobile apps. &#x2022; SONAR: Garmin also offers the Panoptix all seeing sonar smart transducer line. Panoptix LiveScope provides real-time, high-resolution images that can be seen in downward, perspective, and forward-looking views for locating the fish and seeing what is coming before you get there. The Panoptix line also offers detailed 3D underwater views of fish and structure under your boat. Garmin&#x2019;s CHIRP &#x201c;black-box&#x201d; sounders and &#x201c;smart transducers&#x201d; interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the deep-water sounders and fishfinder functions in a remote mounted package. &#x2022; Autopilot Systems: Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features as Garmin&#x2019;s patented Shadow Drive technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control, and enhanced integration with Volvo Penta and Yamaha propulsion systems. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities for various types and manufacturers&#x2019; steering systems. &#x2022; RADAR: Garmin offers high-tech solid state Fantom radar with MotionScope Doppler technology, lowering system power consumption and increasing reliability, while greatly improving situational awareness of the captain. Fantom radars are available in both radome and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter. Garmin also offers a full line of magnetron radars up to 25kW of transmit power. &#x2022; Instruments : Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays and sensors that show data from multiple remote sources on one screen. &#x2022; VHF Communication Radios: Garmin offers a full line-up of marine VHF radios and Automatic Identification System (AIS) transceivers with the latest feature sets including integrated GPS receivers for the communication needs of all types of mariners. Garmin radios are NMEA 2000 compatible and offer multi-station support, and monitor all AIS channels. &#x2022; Handhelds and Wearable Devices: Garmin offers the quatix series wearable, GPS-enabled smartwatches designed for mariners, which include marine features for navigation, sailing, stereo control, and autopilot functions. Garmin also offers floating marine GPS handhelds with wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography. Some handhelds contain built-in InReach satellite communication and support Connect IQ applications. &#x2022; Sailing: Garmin has integrated many basic and advanced sailing features into our MFD and instrument systems. These Garmin SailAssist features include enhanced wind rose with true and apparent wind data, pre-race guidance, synchronized race timer, virtual starting line, time to burn and lay line data fields. &#x2022; Entertainment: Garmin&#x2019;s entertainment brand, Fusion , consists of marine audio head units, speakers and amplifiers. These products are designed specifically for the marine or RV environments and support many connectivity options for integrating with MFDs, smartphones, and Garmin wearables. &#x2022; Digital Switching: Garmin offers digital switching products under the EmpirBus product line. The Garmin EmpirBus products provide power distribution and control solutions for marine and RV applications which enable advanced logic controls and smart electrical systems to enhance features in a boat or RV. The system features fully customizable graphics and user interface that can be controlled through Garmin&#x2019;s marine multi-function displays and RV OEM products. &#x2022; Trolling Motors: Garmin offers the Force Trolling Motor, a powerful, efficient scissor-lift style trolling motor with built-in CHIRP and Ultra High-Definition ClearV&#xfc; and SideV&#xfc; sonar. The Force product line also connects wirelessly to Garmin chartplotters/MFDs to provide navigation, autopilot, and anchor lock integration. 8 Auto Garmin designs and develops products for use in the auto market that are offered to customers around the world. Consumer Auto &#x2022; Personal Navigation Devices (PNDs): Garmin is a leading manufacturer of PNDs, which include specialized features dedicated to the following vehicle and driver needs: &#x2022; Auto: The Drive series offers traditional PNDs for a wide range of consumers. &#x2022; Motorcycle: The z&#x16b;mo series offers motorcycle-specific features. &#x2022; Truck: The d&#x113;zl series offers over-the-road trucking features. &#x2022; RV: The RV series offers features specific to the RV enthusiast. &#x2022; Offroad: Overlander and Tread are rugged, all-terrain navigators with mapping specific for off-road guidance. &#x2022; Motorsports: The Garmin Catalyst is an industry-first racing coach and driving performance optimizer. &#x2022; Camera: The Garmin Dash Cam series offers GPS-enabled dash cams that provide high-quality video recording, automatic saving of video footage with G-sensor incident detection, and forward collision and lane departure warnings. Dash cams are offered as compact, standalone cameras that can be mounted to a car windshield. Garmin also offers wireless backup cameras that can be utilized with compatible PNDs to display camera footage behind the vehicle. Auto OEM &#x2022; Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Solutions: Garmin has cultivated key relationships with leading automobile manufacturers to be the provider of a variety of hardware and software solutions for their vehicles. These range from embedded computing models and infotainment systems that provide a broad range of functionality, to integrated camera solutions, embedded navigation solutions, and precise positioning technology solutions. These support not only the infotainment system in the vehicle, but also key advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) functionality as well. Sales and Marketing Garmin&#x2019;s distribution strategy is to support a broad and diverse network of sales channels for our products while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. Our products are sold through a large worldwide network of independent retailers, online retailers, dealers, distributors, our own online webshop (garmin.com), installation and repair shops, as well as through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin&#x2019;s offices around the world. Amazon.com, Inc. and its affiliates (Amazon), a customer of our fitness, outdoor, marine, and consumer auto segments, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in the fiscal year ended December 25, 2021. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Garmin&#x2019;s consolidated net sales in fiscal 2021. None of the Company&#x2019;s customers accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales in the years ended December 26, 2020, and December 28, 2019. 9 Competition We operate in highly competitive markets, though competitive conditions vary among our diverse target markets and geographies. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Amazon, Apple, Bryton, Coros, Elite, Fitbit (Google), Huawei, Polar, Samsung, Suunto, Wahoo Fitness, Whoop, Xiaomi, and Zepp Health. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor product lines are Casio, Coros, Dogtra, Globalstar, Shearwater Research, SportDOG, Suunto, TAG Heuer, Tissot, Trackman, Vista Outdoor, and Zoleo. Garmin considers its principal avionics competitors to be Aspen Avionics, CMC Electronics, Dynon Avionics, ForeFlight, Genesys Aerosystems, Honeywell Aerospace Defense, Innovative Solutions and Support Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Collins Aerospace, Safran, Thales, and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Furuno, Johnson Outdoors, Navico, and Raymarine. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for consumer automotive products are Rand McNally and TomTom. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for auto OEM infotainment solutions are Alpine Electronics, Aptiv, Bosch, Continental, Harman International Industries, the Mitsubishi Group, and Panasonic Corporation. Research and Development Garmin&#x2019;s product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin&#x2019;s engineering and manufacturing teams. Garmin&#x2019;s products are created by its engineering and development staff. Garmin&#x2019;s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmin&#x2019;s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin&#x2019;s development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, and cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin&#x2019;s success. Manufacturing and Operations Garmin believes one of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi, Jhongli, LinKou, and Xinshi, its China facility in Yangzhou, its Netherlands facility in O