Item 1. Business 1 Item 1(a). Risk Factors 9 Item 1(b). Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19 Item 6. ( Reserved ) 20 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Executive Overview 21 Liquidity and Capital Resources 23 Business Environment and Results of Operations 25 Results of Operations in 2021 Compared to 2020 27 Results of Operations in 2020 Compared to 2019 30 Critical Accounting Estimates 31 Financial Instrument Market Risk 33 Environmental Matters 34 Forward-Looking Information 34 Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 36 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9(a). Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9(b). Other Information 68 Item 9(c). Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11. Executive Compensation 69 Item 12(a). Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners 69 Item 12(b). Security Ownership of Management 69 Item 12(c). Changes in Control 69 Item 12(d). Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76 SIGNATURES 77 i Table of Contents Item 1 | Business PART I Item 1. Business. Description of business and strategy Halliburton Company is one of the world's largest providers of products and services to the energy industry. Its predecessor was established in 1919 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1924. Inspired by the past and leading into the future, what started with a single product from a single location is now a global enterprise. Our value proposition is to collaborate and engineer solutions to maximize asset value for our customers. We strive to achieve strong cash flows and returns for our shareholders by delivering technology and services that improve efficiency, increase recovery, and maximize production for our customers. We are proud of our over 100 years of operation, innovation, collaboration, and execution. Halliburton has fostered a culture of unparalleled service to the world's major, national, and independent oil and gas producers. With over 40,000 employees, representing 130 nationalities in more than 70 countries, we help our customers maximize asset value throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir - from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion, and optimizing production throughout the life of the asset. 2021 Highlights - Financial : Internationally we delivered profitable growth with revenue and operating income increasing every quarter in 2021. In North America, strong operating leverage allowed us to maximize the value of our business as U.S. land activity rebounded. Overall, our Completion and Production and Drilling and Evaluation operating segments finished the year with 15% and 12% operating margins, respectively, and generated strong cash flows from operations. - Digital : Our accelerated deployment and integration of digitally enabled technologies created technical differentiation in the market and contributed to our higher margins. - Capital efficiency : We advanced technologies and made strategic choices that kept our capital expenditures to 5.2% of revenue, which is in the range of our 5-6% of revenue target. - Sustainable energy : We announced our science-based emission reduction targets, added eleven new participating companies to Halliburton Labs, our clean energy accelerator, and were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America for Energy Equipment and Services, which highlights the top 10% most sustainable North America companies in identified industries as determined by S P Global through their Corporate Sustainability Assessment. 2022 Focus - International : Allocate our capital to the highest return opportunities, continue investing in digital technologies that maximize our asset value to drive profitable growth, and increase our international growth in our specialty chemicals and artificial lift businesses. - North America : Continue to build on the operating leverage we have created, maximize cash flow by utilizing our premium low-emissions equipment, and continue developing differentiated technologies focused around the wellbore. - Digital : Continue to accelerate the deployment and integration of digitalization and automation technologies that create differentiation, both internally and for our customers. - Capital efficiency : Maintain our capital expenditures in the range of 5-6% of revenue while focusing on technological advancements and process changes that reduce our manufacturing and maintenance costs and improve how we move equipment and respond to market opportunities. - Sustainable energy : Leverage the increasing number of participants in and scope of Halliburton Labs to gain insight into developing value chains in the clean energy space and continue to develop and deploy low-carbon solutions to help oil and gas operators lower their current emissions profiles while also using our existing technologies in renewable energy applications. For further discussion on our business strategies, see "Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Environment and Results of Operations-Business Outlook." Operating segments We operate under two divisions, which form the basis for the two operating segments we report, the Completion and Production segment and the Drilling and Evaluation segment. Completion and Production delivers cementing, stimulation, intervention, pressure control, artificial lift, and completion products and services. The segment consists of the following product service lines: HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 1 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business - Production Enhancement: includes stimulation services and sand control services. Stimulation services optimize oil and natural gas reservoir production through a variety of pressure pumping services, and chemical processes, commonly known as hydraulic fracturing and acidizing. Sand control services include fluid and chemical systems for the prevention of formation sand production. - Cementing: involves bonding the well and well casing while isolating fluid zones and maximizing wellbore stability. Our cementing product service line also provides casing equipment. - Completion Tools: provides downhole solutions and services to our customers to complete their wells, including well completion products and services, intelligent well completions, liner hanger systems, sand control systems, multilateral systems, and service tools. - Production Solutions: provides customized well intervention solutions to increase well performance, which includes coiled tubing, hydraulic workover units, downhole tools, pumping services, and nitrogen services. - Artificial Lift: provides services to maximize reservoir and wellbore recovery by applying lifting technology, intelligent field management solutions, and related services throughout the life of the well, including electrical submersible pumps. - Pipeline Process Services: provides a complete range of pre-commissioning, commissioning, maintenance, and decommissioning services to the onshore and offshore pipeline and process plant construction commissioning and maintenance industries. Drilling and Evaluation provides field and reservoir modeling, drilling, fluids and specialty chemicals, evaluation and precise wellbore placement solutions that enable customers to model, measure, drill, and optimize their well construction activities. The segment consists of the following product service lines: - Baroid: provides drilling fluid systems, performance additives, completion fluids, solids control, specialized testing equipment, and waste management services for oil and natural gas drilling, completion, and workover operations. It also provides customized specialty oilfield completion, production, and downstream water and process treatment chemicals and services. - Sperry Drilling: provides drilling systems and services that offer directional control for precise wellbore placement while providing important measurements about the characteristics of the drill string and geological formations while drilling wells. These services include directional and horizontal drilling, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling, surface data logging, and rig site information systems. - Wireline and Perforating: provides open-hole logging services that supply information on formation evaluation and reservoir fluid analysis, including formation lithology, rock properties, and reservoir fluid properties. Also offered are cased-hole and slickline services, including perforating, pipe recovery services, through-casing formation evaluation and reservoir monitoring, casing and cement integrity measurements, and well intervention services. - Drill Bits and Services: provides roller cone rock bits, fixed cutter bits, hole enlargement and related downhole tools and services used in drilling oil and natural gas wells. In addition, coring equipment and services are provided to acquire cores of the formation drilled for evaluation. - Landmark Software and Services: provides cloud based digital services and artificial intelligence solutions on an open architecture for subsurface insights, integrated well construction, and reservoir and production management for the upstream oil and natural gas industry. - Testing and Subsea: provides acquisition and analysis of dynamic reservoir information and reservoir optimization solutions to the oil and natural gas industry through a broad portfolio of test tools, data acquisition services, fluid sampling, surface well testing, subsea safety systems, and underbalanced applications. - Halliburton Project Management: provides integrated solutions to our customers by leveraging the full line of our oilfield services, products, and technologies to solve customer challenges throughout the oilfield lifecycle, including project management and integrated asset management. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 2 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business The following charts depict our revenue split between our two operating segments for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further financial information related to each of our business segments. Markets and competition We are one of the world s largest diversified energy services companies. Our services and products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Competitive factors impacting sales of our services and products include: price; service delivery; health, safety, and environmental standards and practices; service quality; global talent retention; understanding the geological characteristics of the hydrocarbon reservoir; product quality; warranty; and technical proficiency. We conduct business worldwide in more than 70 countries. The business operations of our divisions are organized around four primary geographic regions: North America, Latin America, Europe/Africa/CIS, and Middle East/Asia. In 2021, 2020, and 2019, based on the location of services provided and products sold, 40%, 38%, and 51%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue was from the United States. No other country accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue during these periods. See "Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information about our geographic operations. Because the markets for our services and products are vast and cross numerous geographic lines, it is not practicable to provide a meaningful estimate of the total number of our competitors. The industries we serve are highly competitive, and we have many substantial competitors. Most of our services and products are marketed through our service and sales organizations. The following charts depict our revenue split between our four primary geographic regions for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 3 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business Our operations in some countries may be adversely affected by unsettled political conditions, acts of terrorism, civil unrest, force majeure, war or other armed conflict, health or similar issues, sanctions, expropriation or other governmental actions, inflation, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange restrictions and highly inflationary currencies, as well as other geopolitical factors. We believe the geographic diversification of our business activities reduces the risk that an interruption of operations in any one country, other than the United States, would be materially adverse to our business, consolidated results of operations, or consolidated financial condition. Information regarding our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, risk concentration, and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included in "Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Instrument Market Risk and in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Customers Our revenue during the past three years was derived from the sale of services and products to the energy industry. No single customer represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in any period presented. Raw materials Raw materials essential to our business are normally readily available. Market conditions can trigger constraints in the supply of certain raw materials, such as proppants (primarily sand), hydrochloric acid, and gels. We are always striving to ensure the availability of resources and manage raw material costs. Our procurement department uses our relationships and buying power to enhance our access to key materials at competitive prices. Patents We own a large number of patents and have pending a substantial number of patent applications covering various products and processes. We are also licensed to utilize technology covered by patents owned by others, and we license others to utilize technology covered by our patents. We do not consider any particular patent to be material to our business operations. Seasonality Weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect the performance of our services, but the widespread geographical locations of our operations mitigate those effects. Examples of how weather can impact our business include: - the severity and duration of the winter in North America can have a significant impact on drilling activity and on natural gas storage levels; - the timing and duration of the spring thaw in Canada directly affects activity levels due to road restrictions; - typhoons and hurricanes can disrupt coastal and offshore operations; and - severe weather during the winter normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea and Russia. Additionally, customer spending patterns for completion tools typically result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of the year. We recognize revenue on customer software contract sales predominantly in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Our workforce Our workforce is our top asset in enabling us to accomplish innovative, high-quality work for our customers and to address the world s energy challenges. To attract and retain talent, we strive to provide a safe and inclusive working environment along with competitive benefits. As of December 31, 2021, we employed over 40,000 people worldwide representing 130 nationalities, operated in more than 70 countries, and approximately 18% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Based upon the geographic diversification of our employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions are material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. Recruiting and Turnover Given the size and geographic scope of our workforce, we have a robust world-wide recruiting apparatus, which includes personnel devoted to recruiting and retention, online job postings, and recruiting programs we have established at academic institutions for internships and entry-level roles. In order to increase the number of diverse employees, we have developed relationships with diversity-focused student organizations, provide professional development sessions to students, engage our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to participate in select university events, and participate in outreach efforts through programs supported by our Educational Advisory Board. Our attrition in 2021 was down significantly compared to 2020 and we were able to rehire more than 2,800 former employees in 2021, despite a tight labor market. We have found that hiring former employees allows us to add needed personnel who are able to apply their experience and contribute quickly. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 4 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business Diversity, equity, and inclusion With our large employee base and global breadth, we are one of the world s most diverse companies. Our Code of Business Conduct describes our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, which is supported by our recruitment and employment practices. It is a priority to continue to increase the diversity of our workforce, both in general and in leadership positions. Furthermore, we strive to increase the percentage of local nationals that we employ in each region of operations to better communicate with local customers and other contractors, share knowledge of the culture and values of the local population, improve local economies, and make our workforce more representative of the populations where we provide our services. In 2021, 92% of our workforce and 86% of management was localized. In 2021, 13% of our workforce and 13% of our managers were female. Leadership We have more than 8,000 employees in management roles. The ongoing identification and development of leadership talent ensures business continuity and strengthens our competitive advantage, both of which are critical for our short and long-term success. In 2021, we identified approximately 18,000 potential successors for our managers during succession management planning. One of our most significant investments in the development of our future leaders is our executive education programs. In 2021, approximately 25% of the participants in these programs were female and 40 different nationalities were represented, despite travel restrictions impacting many countries. As part of our commitment to employee engagement, we solicit feedback from employees on their workplace challenges, and empower them to share their perspectives and ideas to improve the overall employee experience, including performance, development, and work-life balance. Notably, according to a survey we conducted in 2021, 87% of our employees felt that Halliburton and their colleagues value their unique traits and ways of working. Benefits and well-being We provide our employees around the world with benefits that address the needs of our workforce and their families. We evaluate our benefits package to identify opportunities for improvement and to remain competitive. In 2021, we enhanced healthcare benefits for United States employees to help them better plan for medical expenditures and to obtain additional support in getting second medical opinions and navigating health plans. In response to ongoing mental health concerns related to the COVID-19 pandemic, we expanded our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) from six countries to 43 countries worldwide. By the end of 2021, more than 32,000 employees had access to the EAP compared to approximately 14,500 in 2020. Safety Safety in the workplace is one of our highest priorities. We have many safety programs in place, including our Journey to ZERO initiative, to maintain our strong performance and improve proactive identification and management of safety risks. In 2021, we enhanced risk management processes, incident investigations, and training, including options for virtual training when feasible. As a result of our focus on safety, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, our recordable incident rates were 0.25% and 0.20%, non-productive times were 0.30% and 0.30%, lost-time incident rates were 0.09% and 0.06%, preventable recordable vehicle incident rates were 0.16% and 0.06%, respectively, and there were no job related fatalities in either year. Government regulation We are subject to numerous environmental, legal, and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. For further information related to environmental matters and regulation, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and "Item 1(a). Risk Factors. Hydraulic fracturing Hydraulic fracturing is a process that creates fractures extending from the well bore into the rock formation to enable natural gas or oil to move more easily from the rock pores to a production conduit. A significant portion of our Completion and Production segment provides hydraulic fracturing services to customers developing shale natural gas and shale oil. From time to time, questions arise about the scope of our operations in the shale natural gas and shale oil sectors, and the extent to which these operations may affect human health and the environment. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 5 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business At the direction of our customer, we design and generally implement a hydraulic fracturing operation to stimulate the well's production, once the well has been drilled, cased, and cemented. Our customer is generally responsible for providing the base fluid (usually water) used in the hydraulic fracturing of a well. We frequently supply the proppant (primarily sand) and at least a portion of the additives used in the overall fracturing fluid mixture. In addition, we mix the additives and proppant with the base fluid and pump the mixture down the wellbore to create the desired fractures in the target formation. The customer is responsible for disposing and/or recycling for further use any materials that are subsequently produced or pumped out of the well, including flowback fluids and produced water. As part of the process of constructing the well, the customer will take a number of steps designed to protect drinking water resources. In particular, the casing and cementing of the well are designed to provide 'zonal isolation' so that the fluids pumped down the wellbore and the oil and natural gas and other materials that are subsequently pumped out of the well will not come into contact with shallow aquifers or other shallow formations through which those materials could potentially migrate to freshwater aquifers or the surface. The potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing have been studied by numerous government entities and others. In 2004, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) conducted an extensive study of hydraulic fracturing practices, focusing on coalbed methane wells, and their potential effect on underground sources of drinking water. The EPA s study concluded that hydraulic fracturing of coalbed methane wells poses little or no threat to underground sources of drinking water. In December 2016, the EPA released a final report, Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States representing the culmination of a six-year study requested by Congress. While the EPA report noted a potential for some impact to drinking water sources caused by hydraulic fracturing, the agency confirmed the overall incidence of impacts is low. Moreover, a number of the areas of potential impact identified in the report involve activities for which we are not generally responsible, such as potential impacts associated with withdrawals of surface water for use as a base fluid and management of wastewater. We have proactively developed processes to provide our customers with the chemical constituents of our hydraulic fracturing fluids to enable our customers to comply with state laws as well as voluntary standards established by the Chemical Disclosure Registry, www.fracfocus.org . We have invested considerable resources in developing hydraulic fracturing technologies, in both the equipment and chemistry portions of our business, which offer our customers a variety of environment-friendly options related to the use of hydraulic fracturing fluid additives and other aspects of our hydraulic fracturing operations. We created a hydraulic fracturing fluid system comprised of materials sourced entirely from the food industry. In addition, we have engineered a process that uses ultraviolet light to control the growth of bacteria in hydraulic fracturing fluids, allowing customers to minimize the use of chemical biocides. We are committed to the continued development of innovative chemical and mechanical technologies that allow for more economical and environment-friendly development of the world s oil and natural gas reserves, and that reduce noise while complying with Tier 4 lower emission legislation. In evaluating any environmental risks that may be associated with our hydraulic fracturing services, it is helpful to understand the role that we play in the development of shale natural gas and shale oil. Our principal task generally is to manage the process of injecting fracturing fluids into the borehole to stimulate the well. Thus, based on the provisions in our contracts and applicable law, the primary environmental risks we face are potential pre-injection spills or releases of stored fracturing fluids and potential spills or releases of fuel or other fluids associated with pumps, blenders, conveyors, or other above-ground equipment used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Although possible concerns have been raised about hydraulic fracturing, the circumstances described above have helped to mitigate those concerns. To date, we have not been obligated to compensate any indemnified party for any environmental liability arising directly from hydraulic fracturing, although there can be no assurance that such obligations or liabilities will not arise in the future. For further information on risks related to hydraulic fracturing, see "Item 1(a). Risk Factors. Working capital We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flow generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facility is available for additional working capital needs. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 6 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business Web site access - www.halliburton.com Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available at www.halliburton.com soon thereafter. The SEC website www.sec.gov contains our reports, proxy and information statements and our other SEC filings. Our Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all our employees and Directors and serves as a code of ethics for our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, and other persons performing similar functions, can be found at www.halliburton.com . Any amendments to our Code of Business Conduct or any waivers from provisions of our Code of Business Conduct granted to the specified officers above are also disclosed on our web site within four business days after the date of any amendment or waiver pertaining to these officers. There have been no waivers from provisions of our Code of Business Conduct for the years 2021, 2020, or 2019. Except to the extent expressly stated otherwise, information contained on or accessible from our web site or any other web site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 7 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table indicates the names and ages of the executive officers of Halliburton Company as of February 4, 2022, including all offices and positions held by each in the past five years: Name and Age Offices Held and Term of Office Van H. Beckwith (Age 56) Executive Vice President, Secretary and Chief Legal Officer of Halliburton Company, since December 2020 Senior Vice President and General Counsel, January 2020 to December 2020 Partner, Baker Botts L.L.P., January 1999 to December 2019 Eric J. Carre (Age 55) Executive Vice President, Global Business Lines of Halliburton Company, since May 2016 Charles E. Geer, Jr. (Age 51) Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Halliburton Company, since December 2019 Vice President and Corporate Controller of Halliburton Company, January 2015 to December 2019 Myrtle L. Jones (Age 62) Senior Vice President, Tax of Halliburton Company, since March 2013 Lance Loeffler (Age 44) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company, since November 2018 Vice President of Investor Relations of Halliburton Company, April 2016 to November 2018 Timothy M. McKeon (Age 49) Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company, since January 2022 Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company, J