Item 1. Business 1 Item 1(a). Risk Factors 8 Item 1(b). Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 2. Properties 16 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 16 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 16 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 18 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Executive Overview 19 Liquidity and Capital Resources 22 Business Environment and Results of Operations 24 Results of Operations in 2019 Compared to 2018 26 Results of Operations in 2018 Compared to 2017 28 Critical Accounting Estimates 29 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 31 Financial Instrument Market Risk 32 Environmental Matters 32 Forward-Looking Information 32 Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 33 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 34 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9(a). Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9(b). Other Information 67 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation 68 Item 12(a). Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners 68 Item 12(b). Security Ownership of Management 68 Item 12(c). Changes in Control 68 Item 12(d). Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 68 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 68 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 68 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits 69 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 75 SIGNATURES 76 i Table of Contents Item 1 | Business PART I Item 1. Business . Description of business Halliburton Company is one of the world's largest providers of products and services to the energy industry. Its predecessor was established in 1919 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1924. Inspired by the past and leading into the future, what started with a single product from a single location is now a global enterprise. We are proud of our over 100 years of operation, innovation, collaboration, and execution. Halliburton has fostered a culture of unparalleled service to the world's major, national and independent oil and gas producers. With approximately 55,000 employees, representing 140 nationalities in more than 80 countries, we help our customers maximize asset value throughout the lifecycle of the reservoir - from locating hydrocarbons and managing geological data, to drilling and formation evaluation, well construction and completion and optimizing production throughout the life of the asset. 2019 Highlights - Cost structure : Reorganized and reduced our cost structure in North America. We systematically rationalized and reduced our equipment supply to adjust to changing activity levels. We initiated a global cost savings and service delivery improvement program and executed personnel reductions and real estate rationalization to improve financial performance. - Customer alignment : Continued to align with a portfolio of customers with a mix of pricing and volume designed to generate returns for Halliburton. - Technology : Deployed technology that helped our customers maximize asset value, lower our cost and/or accrue value to Halliburton. We leveraged our experience in U.S. shales to provide a customized application of technology, logistics management and operational excellence to maximize asset value for our international customers. - Safety and service quality : Achieved exceptional safety and service quality performance. Our total recordable incident rate and non-productive time improved over 20%, both historical bests across our business. This is a result of our employees continued commitment to safety and process execution. 2020 Focus - International : Improve international revenue and operating margin growth opportunities from mature fields and shallow water markets with a higher utilization for our existing equipment in certain markets. Grow at or above international drilling and completions spending. - North America : Continue to strategically grow our non-hydraulic fracturing businesses in North America. Continue implementing our cost savings and service delivery program to achieve higher utilization of existing fleets with a focus on delivering margin expansion and strong returns and cash flow. - Capital discipline : Maintain capital discipline across all geographies to deliver strong returns and cash flow. Operating segments We operate under two divisions, which form the basis for the two operating segments we report, the Completion and Production segment and the Drilling and Evaluation segment. Completion and Production delivers cementing, stimulation, intervention, pressure control, specialty chemicals, artificial lift and completion products and services. The segment consists of the following product service lines: - Production Enhancement: includes stimulation services and sand control services. Stimulation services optimize oil and natural gas reservoir production through a variety of pressure pumping services, nitrogen services and chemical processes, commonly known as hydraulic fracturing and acidizing. Sand control services include fluid and chemical systems and pumping services for the prevention of formation sand production. - Cementing: involves bonding the well and well casing while isolating fluid zones and maximizing wellbore stability. Our cementing product service line also provides casing equipment. - Completion Tools: provides downhole solutions and services to our customers to complete their wells, including well completion products and services, intelligent well completions, liner hanger systems, sand control systems and service tools. - Production Solutions: provides customized well intervention solutions to increase well performance, which includes coiled tubing, hydraulic workover units and downhole tools. HAL 2019 FORM 10-K | 1 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business - Pipeline Process Services: provides a complete range of pre-commissioning, commissioning, maintenance and decommissioning services to the onshore and offshore pipeline and process plant construction, commissioning and maintenance industries. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we made a strategic decision to market for sale this business. - Multi-Chem: provides customized specialty oilfield completion, production, and downstream water and process treatment chemicals and services to maximize production, ensure integrity of well and pipeline assets and address production, processing and transportation challenges. - Artificial Lift: provides services to maximize reservoir and wellbore recovery by applying lifting technology, intelligent field management solutions and related services throughout the life of the well, including electrical submersible pumps. Drilling and Evaluation provides field and reservoir modeling, drilling, evaluation and precise wellbore placement solutions that enable customers to model, measure, drill and optimize their well construction activities. The segment consists of the following product service lines: - Baroid: provides drilling fluid systems, performance additives, completion fluids, solids control, specialized testing equipment and waste management services for oil and natural gas drilling, completion and workover operations. - Sperry Drilling: provides drilling systems and services that offer directional control for precise wellbore placement while providing important measurements about the characteristics of the drill string and geological formations while drilling wells. These services include directional and horizontal drilling, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling, surface data logging, multilateral systems, underbalanced applications and rig site information systems. - Wireline and Perforating: provides open-hole logging services that supply information on formation evaluation and reservoir fluid analysis, including formation lithology, rock properties and reservoir fluid properties. Also offered are cased-hole and slickline services, including perforating, pipe recovery services, through-casing formation evaluation and reservoir monitoring, casing and cement integrity measurements and well intervention services. - Drill Bits and Services: provides roller cone rock bits, fixed cutter bits, hole enlargement and related downhole tools and services used in drilling oil and natural gas wells. In addition, coring equipment and services are provided to acquire cores of the formation drilled for evaluation. - Landmark Software and Services: supplies integrated exploration, drilling and production software and related professional and data management services for the upstream oil and natural gas industry. - Testing and Subsea: provides acquisition and analysis of dynamic reservoir information and reservoir optimization solutions to the oil and natural gas industry through a broad portfolio of test tools, data acquisition services, fluid sampling, surface well testing and subsea safety systems. - Halliburton Project Management: provides integrated solutions to our customers by leveraging the full line of our oilfield services, products and technologies to solve customer challenges throughout the oilfield lifecycle. It includes project management and integrated asset management. The following charts depict the company's revenue split between its two operating segments for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 . See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further financial information related to each of our business segments. We have manufacturing operations in various locations, the most significant of which are located in the United States, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. HAL 2019 FORM 10-K | 2 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business Business strategy Our value proposition is to collaborate and engineer solutions to maximize asset value for our customers. We strive to achieve superior growth and returns for our shareholders by delivering technology and services that improve efficiency, increase recovery and maximize production for our customers. Our objectives are to: - create a balanced portfolio of services and products supported by global infrastructure and anchored by technological innovation to further differentiate our company; - reach a distinguished level of operational excellence that reduces costs and creates real value; - preserve a dynamic workforce by being a preferred employer to attract, develop and retain the best global talent; and - maintain the highest ethical and business standards and health, safety and environmental performance. For further discussion on our business strategies, see "Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview." Markets and competition We are one of the world s largest diversified energy services companies. Our services and products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Competitive factors impacting sales of our services and products include: price; service delivery; health, safety and environmental standards and practices; service quality; global talent retention; understanding the geological characteristics of the hydrocarbon reservoir; product quality; warranty; and technical proficiency. We conduct business worldwide in more than 80 countries. The business operations of our divisions are organized around four primary geographic regions: North America, Latin America, Europe/Africa/CIS and Middle East/Asia. In 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , based on the location of services provided and products sold, 51% , 58% and 53% , respectively, of our consolidated revenue was from the United States. No other country accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue during these periods. See "Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information about our geographic operations. Because the markets for our services and products are vast and cross numerous geographic lines, it is not practicable to provide a meaningful estimate of the total number of our competitors. The industries we serve are highly competitive, and we have many substantial competitors. Most of our services and products are marketed through our service and sales organizations. The following charts depict the company's revenue split between its four primary geographic regions for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 . Operations in some countries may be adversely affected by unsettled political conditions, acts of terrorism, civil unrest, force majeure, war or other armed conflict, health or similar issues, sanctions, expropriation or other governmental actions, inflation, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange restrictions and highly inflationary currencies, as well as other geopolitical factors. We believe the geographic diversification of our business activities reduces the risk that loss of operations in any one country, other than the United States, would be materially adverse to our business, consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial condition. Information regarding our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, risk concentration and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included in "Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Instrument Market Risk and in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. HAL 2019 FORM 10-K | 3 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business Customers Our revenue during the past three years was derived from the sale of services and products to the energy industry. No single customer represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in any period presented. Raw materials Raw materials essential to our business are normally readily available. Market conditions can trigger constraints in the supply of certain raw materials, such as proppants (primarily sand), hydrochloric acid and gels, including guar gum (a blending additive used in hydraulic fracturing). We are always seeking ways to ensure the availability of resources, as well as manage costs of raw materials. Our procurement department uses our size and buying power to enhance our access to key materials at competitive prices. Patents We own a large number of patents and have pending a substantial number of patent applications covering various products and processes. We are also licensed to utilize technology covered by patents owned by others, and we license others to utilize technology covered by our patents. We do not consider any particular patent to be material to our business operations. Seasonality Weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect the performance of our services, but the widespread geographical locations of our operations mitigate those effects. Examples of how weather can impact our business include: - the severity and duration of the winter in North America can have a significant impact on natural gas storage levels and drilling activity; - the timing and duration of the spring thaw in Canada directly affects activity levels due to road restrictions; - typhoons and hurricanes can disrupt coastal and offshore operations; and - severe weather during the winter normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea and Russia. Additionally, customer spending patterns for software, completion tools and various other oilfield services and products typically result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of the year. Conversely, customer spending patterns and budget constraints may lead to lower demand for our services and products in the second half of the year. Employees At December 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 55,000 people worldwide compared to approximately 60,000 at December 31, 2018 . At December 31, 2019 , approximately 15% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Based upon the geographic diversification of these employees, we do not believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. Environmental regulation We are subject to numerous environmental, legal and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. For further information related to environmental matters and regulation, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and "Item 1(a). Risk Factors. Hydraulic fracturing Hydraulic fracturing is a process that creates fractures extending from the well bore into the rock formation to enable natural gas or oil to move more easily from the rock pores to a production conduit. A significant portion of our Completion and Production segment provides hydraulic fracturing services to customers developing shale natural gas and shale oil. From time to time, questions arise about the scope of our operations in the shale natural gas and shale oil sectors, and the extent to which these operations may affect human health and the environment. At the direction of our customer, we design and generally implement a hydraulic fracturing operation to 'stimulate' the well's production, once the well has been drilled, cased and cemented. Our customer is generally responsible for providing the base fluid (usually water) used in the hydraulic fracturing of a well. We frequently supply the proppant (primarily sand) and at least a portion of the additives used in the overall fracturing fluid mixture. In addition, we mix the additives and proppant with the base fluid and pump the mixture down the wellbore to create the desired fractures in the target formation. The customer is responsible for disposing and/or recycling for further use any materials that are subsequently produced or pumped out of the well, including flowback fluids and produced water. HAL 2019 FORM 10-K | 4 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business As part of the process of constructing the well, the customer will take a number of steps designed to protect drinking water resources. In particular, the casing and cementing of the well are designed to provide 'zonal isolation' so that the fluids pumped down the wellbore and the oil and natural gas and other materials that are subsequently pumped out of the well will not come into contact with shallow aquifers or other shallow formations through which those materials could potentially migrate to freshwater aquifers or the surface. The potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing have been studied by numerous government entities and others. In 2004, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) conducted an extensive study of hydraulic fracturing practices, focusing on coalbed methane wells, and their potential effect on underground sources of drinking water. The EPA s study concluded that hydraulic fracturing of coalbed methane wells poses little or no threat to underground sources of drinking water. In December 2016, the EPA released a final report, Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States representing the culmination of a six-year study requested by Congress. While the EPA report noted a potential for some impact to drinking water sources caused by hydraulic fracturing, the agency confirmed the overall incidence of impacts is low. Moreover, a number of the areas of potential impact identified in the report involve activities for which we are not generally responsible, such as potential impacts associated with withdrawals of surface water for use as a base fluid and management of wastewater. We have proactively developed processes to provide our customers with the chemical constituents of our hydraulic fracturing fluids to enable our customers to comply with state laws as well as voluntary standards established by the Chemical Disclosure Registry, www.fracfocus.org . We have also invested considerable resources in developing hydraulic fracturing technologies, in both the equipment and chemistry portions of our business, which offer our customers a variety of environment-friendly options related to the use of hydraulic fracturing fluid additives and other aspects of our hydraulic fracturing operations. We created a hydraulic fracturing fluid system comprised of materials sourced entirely from the food industry. In addition, we have engineered a process that uses ultraviolet light to control the growth of bacteria in hydraulic fracturing fluids, allowing customers to minimize the use of chemical biocides. We are committed to the continued development of innovative chemical and mechanical technologies that allow for more economical and environment-friendly development of the world s oil and natural gas reserves, and that reduce noise while complying with Tier 4 lower emission legislation. In evaluating any environmental risks that may be associated with our hydraulic fracturing services, it is helpful to understand the role that we play in the development of shale natural gas and shale oil. Our principal task generally is to manage the process of injecting fracturing fluids into the borehole to 'stimulate' the well. Thus, based on the provisions in our contracts and applicable law, the primary environmental risks we face are potential pre-injection spills or releases of stored fracturing fluids and potential spills or releases of fuel or other fluids associated with pumps, blenders, conveyors, or other above-ground equipment used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Although possible concerns have been raised about hydraulic fracturing, the circumstances described above have helped to mitigate those concerns. To date, we have not been obligated to compensate any indemnified party for any environmental liability arising directly from hydraulic fracturing, although there can be no assurance that such obligations or liabilities will not arise in the future. For further information on risks related to hydraulic fracturing, see "Item 1(a). Risk Factors. Working capital We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and equivalents, short-term investments and cash flow generated from operations. In addition, our revolving credit facility is available for additional working capital needs. Web site access Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our internet web site ( www.halliburton.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed the material with, or furnished it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC maintains an internet site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains our reports, proxy and information statements and our other SEC filings. We have posted on our web site our Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all of our employees and Directors and serves as a code of ethics for our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and other persons performing similar functions. Any amendments to our Code of Business Conduct or any waivers from provisions of our Code of Business Conduct granted to the specified officers above are disclosed on our web site within four business days after the date of any amendment or waiver pertaining to these officers. There have been no waivers from provisions of our Code of Business Conduct for the years 2019 , 2018 , or 2017 . Except to the extent expressly stated otherwise, information contained on or accessible from our HAL 2019 FORM 10-K | 5 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business web site or any other web site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table indicates the names and ages of the executive officers of Halliburton Company as of February 11, 2020 , including all offices and positions held by each in the past five years: Name and Age Offices Held and Term of Office Anne L. Beaty (Age 63) Senior Vice President, Finance of Halliburton Company, since March 2017 Senior Vice President, Internal Assurance Services of Halliburton Company, November 2013 to March 2017 Eric J. Carre (Age 53) Executive Vice President, Global Business Lines of Halliburton Company, since May 2016 Senior Vice President, Drilling and Evaluation Division of Halliburton Company, June 2011 to April 2016 Charles E. Geer, Jr. (Age 49) Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Halliburton Company, since December 2019 Vice President and Corporate Controller of Halliburton Company, January 2015 to December 2019 Myrtle L. Jones (Age 60) Senior Vice President, Tax of Halliburton Company, since March 2013 Lance Loeffler (Age 42) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company, since November 2018 Vice President of Investor Relations of Halliburton Company, April 2016 to November 2018 Vice President of Corporate Development of Halliburton Company, August 2014 to April 2016 Timothy M. McKeon (Age 47) Vice President and Treasurer of Halliburton Company, since January 2014 Jeffrey A. Miller (Age 56) Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton Company, since January 2019 Member of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton Company, June 2017 to December 2018 Member of the Board of Directors and President of Halliburton Company, August 2014 to May 2017 Lawrence J. Pope (Age 51) Executive Vice President of Administration and Chief Human Resources Officer of Halliburton Company, since January 2008 Joe D. Rainey (Age 63) President, Eastern Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, since January 2011 Mark J. Richard (Age 58) President, Western Hemisphere of Halliburton Company, since February 2019 Senior Vice President, Northern U.S. Region of Halliburton Company, August 2018 to January 2019 Senior Vice President, Business Development and Marketing of Halliburton Company, November 2015 to July 2018 Senior Vice President, Europe/Sub-Saharan Africa Region of Halliburton Company, February 2014 to October 2015 HAL 2019 FORM 10-K | 6 Table of Contents Item 1 | Business Robb L. Voyles (Age 62) Executive Vice President, Secretary and Chief Legal Officer of Halliburton Company, since January 2020 Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Halliburton Company, May 2015 to December 2019 Interim Chief Financial Officer of Halliburton Company, March 2017 to June 2017 Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Halliburton Company, January 2014 to April 2015 There are no family relationships between the executive officers of the registrant or between any director and any executive officer of the registrant. HAL 2019 FORM 10-K | 7 Table of Contents Item 1(a) | Risk Factors Item 1(a). Risk Factors . When considering an investment in Halliburton Company, all of the risk factors described below and other information included and incorporated by reference in this annual report should be carefully considered. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of exploration, development and production activity of our customers and the demand for our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Demand for our services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects, even the perception of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies can cause them to reduce or defer major expenditures. We also have a small number of integrated projects that have remuneration tied to hydrocarbon production. Reduction in oil and gas prices can affect the overall returns for these projects, either lengthening the time until the expected returns are realized or by impairing the value of the asset. Any prolonged reductions of commodity prices or expectations of such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition, and could result in asset impairments and severance costs. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include: - the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas; - the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain oil production levels; - the level of oil production in the U.S. and by other non-OPEC countries; - oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; - the cost of, and constraints associated with, producing and delivering oil and na