Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 34 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 60 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 109 Item 9B. Other Information 112 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 113 Item 11. Executive Compensation 113 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 113 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 113 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 113 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 114 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 114 Signatures 121 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may relate to matters such as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, relationships with customers and suppliers, purchasing patterns of our customers and consumers, the expected content of and timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, expected benefits and plans relating to acquired brands, properties and businesses, such as Entertainment One Ltd., the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures, television and digital products, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, geographic plans, adequacy of supply, manufacturing capacity and expectations to reduce manufacturing in China, tariffs, impact of the outbreak of the coronavirus and other public health conditions, adequacy of our properties, expected benefits and cost-reductions from certain restructuring actions, capital expenditures, working capital, liquidity, and other financial, tax, accounting and similar matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed below and in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. We undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. PART I Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein, Hasbro , the Company , we , or us , means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries. Item 1. Business. Completion of Acquisition On December 30, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Entertainment One Ltd. ("eOne") for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $4.6 billion, comprised of $3.8 billion of cash consideration for shares outstanding and $0.8 billion related to the redemption of eOne s outstanding senior secured notes and the payoff of eOne s revolving credit facility. We financed the acquisition through a combination of debt and equity financings, including (i) the issuance of senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $2.4 billion, (ii) the issuance of 10,592,106 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $95.00 per share and (iii) $1.0 billion in term loans. The financial results of eOne are not included in the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K, as the acquisition of eOne was completed in fiscal 2020. General Development and Description of Business and Business Segments Overview We are a global play and entertainment company committed to Creating the World s Best Play and Entertainment Experiences. From toys, games and consumer products to television, movies, digital gaming, live action, music, and virtual reality experiences, Hasbro connects to global audiences by bringing to life great innovations, stories and brands across established and inventive platforms. Hasbro s iconic brands include MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, TRANSFORMERS, PLAY-DOH, MONOPOLY, BABY ALIVE, POWER RANGERS and FURREAL FRIENDS, as well as our premier partner brands. Through our acquisition of eOne, we ve enhanced our brand portfolios with the addition of beloved children s brands, including PEPPA PIG and PJ MASKS. Through our global entertainment studios, we are building our brands globally through great storytelling and content on all screens. Hasbro is committed to making the world a better place for children and their families through corporate social responsibility and philanthropy. 3 Table of Contents Our strategic plan is centered around our brand blueprint. Under our brand blueprint strategy, we re-imagine, re-invent and re-ignite our owned and controlled brands and imagine, invent and ignite new brands, through product innovation, immersive entertainment offerings, including television and motion pictures, digital gaming and a broad range of consumer products. As the global consumer landscape, shopping behaviors and the retail environment continue to evolve, we continue to transform and reimagine our business strategy. This transformation includes reexamining the ways Hasbro organizes across its brand blueprint and re-shaping the Company to become a better equipped and adaptive, digitally-driven organization, including the development of an omni-channel retail presence and adding new capabilities through the on-boarding of new skill sets and talent. More recently, to enhance our long-term competitive position we have identified and pursued key growth opportunities through strategic acquisitions, to excel in today s converged retail environment as a leading global play and entertainment company across all platforms. Recent Acquisition of Entertainment One Ltd. Overview of eOne's Business eOne is a global independent studio that specializes in the development, acquisition, production, financing, distribution and sales of entertainment content. eOne s diversified expertise spans across film, television and music production and sales, family programming, merchandising and licensing, and digital content. Through its global reach and expansive scale, powered by deep local market knowledge, eOne delivers premium content to the world. eOne develops, produces and distributes a portfolio of children s properties on a worldwide basis. The principal brand is PEPPA PIG, which was launched in the United Kingdom ( UK ) in May 2004. This brand entertains pre-school children worldwide with much of its historical revenue generated through licensing and merchandising programs across multiple retail categories. eOne s portfolio of pre-school brands also includes PJ MASKS, CUPCAKE DINO: GENERAL SERVICES, and RICKY ZOOM. eOne s global independent film business focuses on the acquisition and development of film production rights and the exploitation of these rights on a multi territory basis across all media channels, including cinema, physical home entertainment, and broadcast and digital, as well as the production of a growing number of films. eOne also produces and co produces a growing number of feature films. In addition to eOne s film business, eOne is a major independent producer of television content in North America focusing on the development, production and acquisition of high-quality television programming for sale to broadcasters and digital platforms globally. eOne develops and produces original television programming for broadcast in its core television production territories of Canada and the U.S., which is then distributed into global markets by eOne s own international sales network. eOne typically finances its television programming on a production by production basis by way of production financing facilities. eOne s original television programming is sold to broadcasters on a series by series or individual show basis for broadcast on free television, pay television, Subscription Video On Demand and other digital platforms. Its programming spans a variety of genres, including scripted drama, non scripted reality and documentaries, and in multiple formats, including series, television films, mini series and specials. eOne has its own music label, which produces and releases music tracks and albums from artists across a wide variety of genres, and a significant catalog of music. The music business provides a source of music content for film and television productions and allows eOne to monetize some of the music produced from its films and television programs. eOne also has a global music business specializing in management, publishing and live events across a wide variety of genres. Music also includes UK-based Audio Network, an independent creator and publisher of original high quality music for use in film, television, advertising and digital media. Strategic Rational of the Acquisition We believe the addition of eOne accelerates our brand blueprint strategy by: expanding our brand portfolio with eOne s beloved global preschool brands, including PEPPA PIG, PJ MASKS and RICKY ZOOM; adding proven TV and film expertise and executive leadership; enhancing brand building capabilities, our storytelling capabilities and franchise economics in TV, film and other mediums to strengthen Hasbro brands; and creating additional opportunities for long-term profitable growth through in-sourcing and cost-synergies, as well as future revenue growth opportunities. 4 Table of Contents Storytelling and Other Entertainment Initiatives Our brand blueprint focuses on reinforcing storylines associated with our brands through several mediums, including television, film, digital gaming and live action experiences. As part of our brand blueprint strategy, we seek to build our brands through entertainment-based storytelling. Historically, Allspark Pictures and Allspark Animation have been responsible for Hasbro's entertainment-driven brand storytelling, including the development and global distribution of television programming and motion pictures primarily based on our brands. As we integrate eOne's creative talent and network of studios we expect eOne to lead the Company's entertainment-driven brand storytelling with the addition of production studios that span film, television and music, and include family programming, digital content distribution, international feature film distribution and live entertainment. Television programming based on our brands currently airs in markets throughout the world. Domestically, Allspark Animation primarily distributes programming to Discovery Family Channel (the Network ), a joint venture between Discovery Communications, Inc. ( Discovery ) and Hasbro which operates a cable television network in the United States dedicated to high-quality children s and family entertainment and educational programming. Beginning in 2015, Allspark Animation began distributing certain programming domestically to other outlets, including Cartoon Network. Internationally, Allspark Animation distributes to various broadcasters and cable networks. Allspark Animation also distributes programming globally on various digital platforms, including Netflix. In 2016, Hasbro acquired Boulder Media, an animation studio based in Dublin, Ireland that produces a variety of projects for Allspark Animation and Allspark Pictures. During 2014, we introduced Allspark Pictures, Hasbro s film label, as a vehicle to produce both animated and live action theatrical releases based on our brands. Beginning in 2020, we plan to leverage eOne's production expertise to enhance the Company's film, television and animated production initiatives. In October 2017 the Company entered into an agreement with Paramount Pictures ( Paramount ) to produce and distribute live action and animated films, as well as television programming based on Hasbro brands over a five-year period. Hasbro s Allspark Pictures, Allspark Animation and eOne will play an active role alongside Paramount in content development and production under this relationship and Hasbro will play a more significant role in financing the films. The Company s storytelling initiatives, which we believe will be enhanced through the expertise and creative talent of eOne, support its strategy of growing its brands well beyond traditional toys and games and providing entertainment experiences for consumers of all ages accessible anytime in many forms and formats. Recent films released by Allspark Pictures include the following: In October 2017, Allspark Pictures released M Y LITTLE PONY: THE MOVIE. In December 2018, Hasbro and Paramount released BUMBLEBEE , a film centered on the TRANSFORMERS character. Jointly, Allspark Pictures and Paramount Pictures have several upcoming feature length films with planned release dates in 2020 and 2021. In addition to film and television initiatives, Hasbro understands the importance of digital content to drive fan engagement, including in gaming and across other media, and of integrating such content with our products. Digital media encompasses digital gaming applications and the creation of digital environments for analog products through the use of complementary digital applications and websites which extend storylines and enhance play. In 2018, the Company launched MAGIC: THE GATHERING ARENA, the free-to-play online adaptation of the MAGIC: THE GATHERING card game, which launched out of open beta late in the third quarter of 2019. During the fourth quarter of 2019, to support the Company's Wizards of the Coast's digital gaming business, the Company acquired Tuque Games ("Tuque"), an independent digital game development studio based in Montreal, Canada. Tuque will focus on the development of digital games for brands such as DUNGEONS DRAGONS. In October 2019, the Company made the decision to close our wholly owned subsidiary, Backflip Studios, LLC ( Backflip ), a mobile game developer and producer of digital applications. The Company plans to continue to support Backflip s existing mobile gaming apps in the near-term. As we begin to leverage the immersive entertainment capabilities gained through the eOne acquisition, we will aim to strengthen our competencies around the brand blueprint, such as in storytelling and digital, complement our current product offerings, enter into areas which are adjacent or complementary to our existing business, add to our brand portfolio, and further develop awareness of our brands and expand the ability of consumers to experience our brands in different forms and formats. 5 Table of Contents Brand Portfolios Hasbro organizes and markets owned, controlled and licensed intellectual properties within our brand architecture under the following four brand portfolios: (1) Franchise Brands; (2) Partner Brands; (3) Hasbro Gaming; and (4) Emerging Brands. Franchise Brands Franchise Brands are Hasbro s most significant owned or controlled properties which we believe have the ability to deliver significant revenues and growth over the long-term. Our seven Franchise Brands are BABY ALIVE, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS. In 2019, 2018 and 2017, Franchise Brands were 51%, 53% and 52% of total net revenues, respectively. Partner Brands Partner Brands include those brands licensed by Hasbro from other parties for which Hasbro develops toy and game products. Significant Partner Brands include MARVEL, including SPIDER-MAN and THE AVENGERS, STAR WARS, DISNEY PRINCESS and DISNEY FROZEN, DISNEY S DESCENDANTS, BEYBLADE, DREAMWORKS TROLLS and SESAME STREET. Partner Brands MARVEL, STAR WARS, DISNEY S DESCENDANTS, DISNEY PRINCESS and DISNEY FROZEN are all owned by The Walt Disney Company ( Disney ). Partner brand revenues fluctuate based primarily on the entertainment releases around these brands in any given year. In 2019, Hasbro product lines were supported by the following theatrical releases: CAPTAIN MARVEL in March, AVENGERS: END GAME in April, SPIDER-MAN: FAR FROM HOME in July, FROZEN 2 in November and STAR WARS: THE RISE OF SKYWALKER in December. The release of FROZEN 2 in November supported the Company s DISNEY FROZEN product line in 2019 which is expected to continue into 2020. In 2018, Hasbro product lines were supported by the following theatrical releases: BLACK PANTHER in February, AVENGERS: INFINITY WAR in April and SPIDER-MAN: INTO THE SPIDER-VERSE in December. In addition, Hasbro s products were supported by the May release of SOLO: A STAR WARS STORY. Hasbro Gaming Hasbro continues to transform game play through our strong portfolio of Gaming Brands, digital integration, the mining of social media trends to garner consumer insights and capitalize on popular gaming themes, and the rapid introduction of innovative new gaming brands and play experiences. Hasbro Gaming includes brands such as CONNECT 4, DUNGEONS DRAGONS, JENGA, THE GAME OF LIFE, OPERATION, SCRABBLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT and TWISTER. In addition, Hasbro s games portfolio also includes new social games brands as well as many other well-known game brands. To successfully execute our gaming strategy, we consider brands which may capitalize on existing trends while evolving our approach to gaming using consumer insights and offering gaming experiences relevant to consumer demand for face to face, trading card and digital game experiences played as board, off-the-board, digital, card, electronic, trading card and role-playing games. Emerging Brands Emerging Brands are those owned or controlled Hasbro brands which have not achieved Franchise Brand status, but many of which the Company believes have the potential to do so over time with investment and further development. Hasbro Emerging Brands include brands such as LITTLEST PET SHOP, EASY BAKE, FURREAL FRIENDS, PLAYSKOOL, SUPERSOAKER and most recently, the POWER RANGERS brand, which we purchased in 2018. The POWER RANGERS brand is currently supported by new television programming which began in 2019. The Emerging Brands portfolio also includes the LOST KITTIES brand as well as new brands currently being developed by the Company and other brands not captured in our other three categories. During 2020, Hasbro plans to sell products related to SNAKE EYES, the action adventure feature-length film based on the Emerging Brands GI JOE character SNAKE EYES. The film is being produced jointly by Allspark and Paramount Pictures and is expected to be released in October 2020. In 2020, as a result of the eOne acquisition, Hasbro enhances its current brand portfolio offerings with the introduction of several brands that already have global appeal. Commencing in fiscal 2020, eOne brands, including PEPPA PIG, PJ MASKS and RICKY ZOOM, will be reported in the Emerging Brands portfolio. The Film TV revenues will be reported in a new brand portfolio, eOne Entertainment. Going forward, Hasbro expects to benefit from the addition of an attractive set of new brands currently under development. 6 Table of Contents Segments For periods presented in this Form 10-K, our three principal segments are U.S. and Canada, International and Entertainment, Licensing and Digital. The U.S. and Canada and International segments engage in the marketing and selling of various toy and game products described above. Our toy and game products are primarily developed by cross-functional teams, including members of our global development and marketing groups, to establish a cohesive brand direction and assist the segments in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of these groups are allocated to our principal segments. Our U.S. and Canada segment covers the United States and Canada while the International segment primarily includes Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin and South America. The Entertainment, Licensing and Digital segment conducts our movie, television and digital gaming entertainment operations, including the movie and television operations of Allspark Pictures, Allspark Animation and Boulder Studios and the digital gaming operations of our Wizards of the Coast business. In addition, the segment engages in the out-licensing of our trademarks, characters and other brand and intellectual property rights to third parties for digital gaming and consumer products. Our Global Operations segment is responsible for arranging product manufacturing and sourcing for the U.S. and Canada and International segments. Commencing in fiscal 2020, following the completion of our acquisition of eOne, we expect to add a new reportable segment, which encompasses the operations of eOne. U.S. and Canada Our U.S. and Canada segment engages in the marketing and sale of our products in the United States and Canada. The U.S. and Canada segment promotes our brands through constant innovation and reinvention. This is accomplished through introducing new products and initiatives driven by consumer and marketplace insights and leveraging opportunistic toy and game lines and licenses. This strategy leverages efforts to increase consumer awareness of the Company s brands through entertainment experiences, including motion pictures and television programming. International The International segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories to retailers and wholesalers in most countries in Europe, Latin and South America, and the Asia Pacific region and through distributors in those countries where we have no direct presence. As of December 29, 2019, we had offices in more than 35 countries contributing to sales in more than 120 countries. In addition to growing brands, leveraging opportunistic product lines and driving our licensed business, we seek to grow our international business by continuing to strategically expand into emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin and South America. In 2019 we opened an office in Vietnam and in 2018, we opened an office in Japan. Emerging markets are an area of high priority for us as we believe they offer greater opportunities for revenue growth than developed markets. Key emerging markets include Russia, Brazil and the People s Republic of China ( China ). Net revenues from emerging markets represented 13% of our total consolidated net revenues in 2019 while in 2018 and 2017, net revenues from emerging markets represented 14% of our total consolidated net revenues. In 2019, net revenues from emerging markets decreased 5% while in 2018, net revenues in emerging markets decreased 12% from 2017. In 2019 and 2018, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against many of the foreign currencies within the Company s International segment had a negative impact on segment net revenues. The impact from foreign currency translation on International segment net revenues as compared to the prior year translation rates for 2019 and 2018 was ($76.5) million and ($41.7) million, respectively. Financial information with respect to foreign currency risk management is included in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Entertainment, Licensing and Digital Our Entertainment, Licensing and Digital segment includes our consumer products licensing, digital gaming, television and movie entertainment operations. Our consumer products licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in businesses which do not compete directly with our own product offerings, such as apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics, or in certain situations, to utilize them for toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective and profitable than developing and marketing the products ourselves. Our digital gaming business seeks to promote our brands through the development of digital games based on Hasbro brands. In 2018, the Company launched the MAGIC: THE GATHERING ARENA online game and is also developing esports initiatives as well as a digital game around the DUNGEONS DRAGONS brand. Furthermore, in addition to digital game development, Hasbro also promotes brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to partners who develop and offer digital games for play on mobile devices, personal computers, and video game consoles based on those brands. The Company has digital gaming relationships with 7 Table of Contents Electronic Arts Inc., Activision, Ubisoft, Scopely and others. We also license our brands to third parties engaged in other forms of gaming, including Scientific Games Corporation. Although Hasbro closed Backflip, a mobile game development studio, during 2019, Hasbro remains committed to digital gaming as part of our long-term strategy and we continue to pursue opportunities to invest where we see growth potential. One such investment, as mentioned above, was the purchase of Tuque during the fourth quarter of 2019. Tuque is a digital game development studio based in Montreal, Canada that is developing digital games for Wizards of the Coast brands. Major motion pictures and television programming based on our owned and controlled brands provide both immersive storytelling and the ability for our consumers to experience these properties in a different format, which we believe can result in increased product sales, royalty revenues, and overall brand awareness. To a lesser extent, we can also earn revenue from our participation in the financial results of motion pictures and related home entertainment releases and through the distribution of television programming. Revenue from toy and game product sales is a component of the U.S. and Canada and International segments, while royalty revenues, including revenues earned from movies and television programming, is included in the Entertainment, Licensing and Digital segment. As we integrate eOne into our business, we expect to have further potential for revenue growth and expanded franchise economics with brand-driven animation and live action television and film entertainment driven by eOne. Global Operations Our Global Operations segment sources production of our toy and game products. Through August 2015, the Company owned and operated manufacturing facilities in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland, which predominantly produced game products. These facilities were sold to Cartamundi NV ( Cartamundi ). Cartamundi continues to manufacture significant quantities of game products for us in their two facilities under a multi-year manufacturing agreement. Sourcing for our other production is done through unrelated third party manufacturers in various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. Over time we are increasing the amount of product we source outside China, including in India and Vietnam. See Manufacturing and Importing below for more details concerning overseas manufacturing and sourcing. Other Information To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products to retailers on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment where the customer is geographically located. Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence. Three of our four product categories, namely Franchise Brands, Partner Brands and Hasbro Gaming, generate approximately 10% or more of our net revenues. For more information, including the amount of net revenues attributable to each of our four product categories, see note 21 to our consolidated financial statements, which is included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Working Capital Requirements Our working capital needs are financed through cash generated from operations, primarily through the sale of toys and games and secondarily through our consumer products licensing and entertainment operations, and, when necessary, proceeds from short-term borrowings. Our customer order patterns may vary from year to year largely due to fluctuations in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, the dates of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we offer products, and changes in overall ec