Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 42 Item 2. Properties 43 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 43 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 43 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 44 Item 6. [Reserved] 44 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 44 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 71 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Item 9B. Other Information 129 Item 9 C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 129 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 130 Item 11. Executive Compensation 130 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 130 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 130 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 130 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 131 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 131 Signatures 137 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may relate to matters such as: our business and marketing strategies; anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods; expected technological and product developments; relationships with business partners, customers and suppliers; purchasing patterns of our customers and consumers; efforts to expand ecommerce capabilities; the expected timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers; expected benefits and plans relating to acquired brands, properties and businesses; the development and timing of planned consumer and digital gaming products and entertainment releases; changes in the methods of content distribution, including increased reliance on streaming outlets; marketing and promotional efforts; goals relating to our Environmental Social Governance (ESG) activities; research and development activities; geographic plans, adequacy of supply; manufacturing capacity; expectations related to our manufacturing; the potential for tariffs and their impact on our business; impact of the coronavirus pandemic and other public health conditions; adequacy of our properties; expected benefits and cost-reductions from certain restructuring actions; capital expenditures; working capital; liquidity; timing of and amount of repayment of indebtedness; capital allocation strategy, including plans for dividends and share repurchases; and other financial, tax, accounting and similar matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed in the risk factors below and in Part I,