Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 38 Item 2. Properties 40 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 40 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 40 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 41 Item 6. [Reserved] 41 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 69 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 70 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 122 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 122 Item 9B. Other Information 124 Item 9 C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 124 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 125 Item 11. Executive Compensation 125 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 125 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 125 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 125 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 126 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 126 Signatures 131 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements may relate to matters such as: our business and marketing strategies; anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods; relationships with business partners, customers and suppliers; purchasing patterns of our customers and consumers; expected technological and product developments; the expected timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers; expected benefits and plans relating to acquired brands, properties and businesses; the development and timing of planned digital gaming products, consumer products and entertainment releases; adapting to changes in the methods of product and content distribution; marketing and promotional efforts; research and development activities; management of supply and inventory; expectations related to our manufacturing; impact of public health conditions; adequacy of our properties; expected benefits and cost-savings resulting from the Company s Operational Excellence Program; expected benefits and cost-savings from certain restructuring actions and divestiture of non-core businesses or assets; capital expenditures; working capital; liquidity; timing of and amount of repayment of indebtedness; capital allocation strategy, including plans for dividends and share repurchases; and other financial, tax, accounting and similar matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed in the risk factors below and in Part I,