Item 1. Business 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 36 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Introduction 41 Executive Overview 41 Discussion of Results of Operations 44 Risk Management and Capital: 51 Credit Risk 52 Market Risk 67 MSR and Price Risk 68 Liquidity Risk 69 Operational Risk 73 Compliance Risk 74 Capital 74 Business Segment Discussion 77 Results for the Fourth Quarter 82 Additional Disclosures 88 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 92 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 92 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 173 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 173 Item 9B. Other Information 173 Table of Contents Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 173 Item 11. Executive Compensation 173 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 174 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 174 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 175 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 175 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 175 Signatures Table of Contents Glossary of Acronyms and Terms The following listing provides a comprehensive reference of common acronyms and terms used throughout the document: ACL Allowance for Credit Losses AFS Available-for-Sale ALCO Asset-Liability Management Committee ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses AML Anti-Money Laundering ANPR Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ASC Accounting Standards Codification ATM Automated Teller Machine AULC Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments Bank Secrecy Act Financial Recordkeeping and Reporting of Currency and Foreign Transactions Act of 1970 Basel III Refers to the final rule issued by the FRB and OCC and published in the Federal Register on October 11, 2013 BHC Bank Holding Company BHC Act Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 C I Commercial and Industrial CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCPA California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 CDs Certificates of Deposit CECL Current Expected Credit Losses CET1 Common equity tier 1 on a transitional Basel III basis CFPB Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection CISA Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act CMO Collateralized Mortgage Obligations CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRE Commercial Real Estate DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Economic Growth Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act EPS Earnings Per Share EVE Economic Value of Equity FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCRA Fair Credit Reporting Act FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FHC Financial Holding Company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati FICO Fair Isaac Corporation FinCEN Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. FirstMerit FirstMerit Corporation FRB Federal Reserve Bank 4 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents FTE Fully-Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing FVO Fair Value Option GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act GSE Government Sponsored Enterprise HMDA Home Mortgage Disclosure Act HSE Hutchinson, Shockey, Erley Co. HTM Held-to-Maturity IRS Internal Revenue Service LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LFI Rating System Large Financial Institution Rating System LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit LTV Loan-to-Value MBS Mortgage-Backed Securities MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MSA Metropolitan Statistical Area MSR Mortgage Servicing Right NAICS North American Industry Classification System NALs Nonaccrual Loans NCO Net Charge-off NII Noninterest Income NIM Net Interest Margin NOW Negotiable Order of Withdrawal NPAs Nonperforming Assets NSF Non-Sufficient Funds OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) OCR Optimal Customer Relationship OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control OIS Overnight Indexed Swaps OLEM Other Loans Especially Mentioned OREO Other Real Estate Owned OTTI Other-Than-Temporary Impairment Patriot Act Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 PCD Purchased financial assets with credit deterioration PD Probability of Default Plan Huntington Bancshares Retirement Plan Problem Loans Includes nonaccrual loans and leases, accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more, troubled debt restructured loans, and criticized commercial loans Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule Refers to the changes to applicability thresholds for regulatory and capital and liquidity requirements, issued by the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC EPS Tailoring Rule Refers to Prudential Standards for Large Bank Holding Companies and Savings and Loan Holding, issued by the Federal Reserve Tailoring Rules Refers to the Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule and the EPS Tailoring Rule 2019 Form 10-K 5 Table of Contents RBHPCG Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group REIT Real Estate Investment Trust Riegle-Neal Act The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 ROC Risk Oversight Committee RWA Risk-Weighted Assets SAD Special Assets Division SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SERP Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SIFMA Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate SRIP Supplemental Retirement Income Plan TCJA H.R. 1, Originally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring U.S. Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury UCS Uniform Classification System VIE Variable Interest Entity XBRL eXtensible Business Reporting Language 6 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents Huntington Bancshares Incorporated PART I When we refer to Huntington, we, our, us, and the Company in this report, we mean Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates that we refer only to the parent company, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated. When we refer to the Bank in this report, we mean our only bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, and its subsidiaries. Item 1: Business We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. We have 15,664 average full-time equivalent employees. Through the Bank, we have over 150 years of serving the financial needs of our customers. Through our subsidiaries, we provide full-service commercial, small business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, recreational vehicle and marine financing, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance programs, and other financial products and services. The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2019 , the Bank had 12 private client group offices and 856 branches as follows: 424 branches in Ohio 35 branches in Illinois 277 branches in Michigan 25 branches in West Virginia 45 branches in Pennsylvania 10 branches in Kentucky 40 branches in Indiana Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant. Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and assess performance. For each of our four business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks but distinguished by local delivery and customer service. A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our OCR sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to: Use a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer. Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers. Develop prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us. Following is a description of our four business segments and the Treasury / Other function: Consumer and Business Banking : The Consumer and Business Banking segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, investments, consumer loans, credit cards, and small business loans. Other financial services available to customers include mortgages, insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign exchange, and treasury management. Huntington serves customers through our network of branches. In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking, and ATMs. We have a Fair Play banking philosophy; providing differentiated products and services, built on a strong foundation of customer advocacy. Our brand resonates with consumers and businesses, earning us new customers and deeper relationships with current customers. 2019 Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents Business Banking is a dynamic part of our business and we are committed to being the bank of choice for businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as serving companies with annual revenues up to $20 million. Huntington continues to develop products and services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of small business and look for ways to help companies find solutions to their financing needs. Home Lending , an operating unit of Consumer and Business Banking, originates consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are primarily distributed through the Consumer and Business Banking and Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group segments, as well as through commissioned loan originators. Home Lending earns interest on portfolio loans and loans held-for-sale, earns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, and recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage loans. Home Lending supports the origination of mortgage loans across all segments. Commercial Banking : Through a relationship banking model, this segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle market, large corporate, real estate and government public sector customers located primarily within our geographic footprint. The segment is divided into six business units: Middle Market/Asset Based Lending, Specialty Banking, Asset Finance, Capital Markets/Institutional Corporate Banking, Commercial Real Estate, and Treasury Management. Middle Market/Asset Based Lending primarily focuses on providing banking solutions to companies with annual revenues of $20 to $500 million. Through a relationship management approach, various products, capabilities, and solutions are seamlessly delivered in a client centric way. Huntington Business Credit is an asset-based lender providing financing solutions to a broad range of industries that exhibit a quick turning of working capital in a collateral controlled environment. Specialty Banking offers tailored products and services to select industries that have a foothold in the Midwest. Each team is comprised of industry experts with a dynamic understanding of the market and industry. Many of these industries are experiencing tremendous change, which creates opportunities for Huntington to leverage our expertise and help clients navigate, adapt, and succeed. Asset Finance is a combination of our Huntington Equipment Finance, Huntington Public Capital , Huntington Technology Finance, and Lender Finance divisions that focus on providing financing solutions against these respective asset classes. Capital Markets/Institutional Corporate Banking has three distinct product offerings: 1) corporate risk management services, 2) institutional sales, trading, and underwriting, and 3) institutional corporate banking. The Capital Markets Group offers a full suite of risk management tools including commodities, foreign exchange, and interest rate hedging services. The Institutional Sales, Trading, Underwriting team provides access to capital and investment solutions for both municipal and corporate institutions. Institutional Corporate Banking works primarily with larger, often more complex companies with annual revenues greater than $500 million. These entities, many of which are publicly traded, require an approach customized to their banking needs. The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured by commercial properties. Most of these customers are located within our footprint. Within Commercial Real Estate, Huntington Community Development focuses on improving the quality of life for our communities and the residents of low-to-moderate income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support affordable housing and neighborhood stabilization. Treasury Management teams help businesses manage their working capital programs and reduce expenses. Our liquidity solutions help customers save and invest wisely, while our payables and receivables capabilities help them manage purchases and the receipt of payments for goods and services. All of this is provided while helping customers take a sophisticated approach to managing their overhead, inventory, equipment, and labor. Vehicle Finance : Our products and services include providing financing to consumers for the purchase of automobiles, light-duty trucks, recreational vehicles, and marine craft at franchised and other select 2019 Form 10-K 8 Table of Contents dealerships, and providing financing to franchised dealerships for the acquisition of new and used inventory. Products and services are delivered through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained. The Vehicle Finance team services automobile dealerships, their owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these franchised dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships has allowed us to expand into select markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships while building a strong reputation. Huntington also provides financing for the purchase by consumers of recreational vehicles and marine craft on an indirect basis through a series of dealerships. Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group : Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group is closely aligned with our regional banking markets. A fundamental point of differentiation is our commitment to be actively engaged within our local markets - building connections with community and business leaders and offering a uniquely personal experience delivered by colleagues working within those markets. The core business of The Huntington Private Client Group is The Huntington Private Bank, which consists of Private Banking, Wealth Investment Management, and Retirement Plan Services. The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized lending options), and banking services. The Huntington Private Bank also delivers wealth management and legacy planning through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, and trust services. This group also provides retirement plan services to corporate businesses. The Huntington Private Client Group also provides corporate trust services and institutional and mutual fund custody services. Treasury / Other: The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 24 - Segment Reporting of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD A. Competition We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, equipment and automobile financing companies (including captive automobile finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment advisors, and brokerage firms, both within and outside of our primary market areas. Financial Technology Companies, or FinTechs, are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers. We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of value and service by building customer relationships as a result of addressing our customers entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience to our customers. We also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets. We compete for deposits similarly on the basis of a combination of value and service and by providing convenience through a banking network of branches and ATMs within our markets and our website at www.huntington.com. We also employ customer friendly practices, such as our 24-Hour Grace account feature, which gives customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their consumer account without being charged overdraft fees. 2019 Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share based on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as of June 30, 2019 , in the top 10 MSAs in which we compete: MSA Rank Deposits (in millions) Market Share Columbus, OH 1 $ 22,828 37 % Cleveland, OH 2 10,743 15 Detroit, MI 6 8,305 6 Akron, OH 1 4,186 28 Indianapolis, IN 4 3,579 7 Cincinnati, OH 5 3,403 2 Pittsburgh, PA 9 3,320 2 Toledo, OH 1 2,765 22 Grand Rapids, MI 2 2,259 11 Chicago, IL 19 2,465 1 Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2019 survey. Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service providers, and bank failures. FinTechs continue to emerge in key areas of banking. In addition, larger established technology platform companies continue to evaluate, and in some cases, create businesses focused on banking products. We are closely monitoring activity in the marketplace to ensure that our products and services are technologically competitive. Further, we continue to invest in and evolve our proactive internal innovation program to develop, incubate, and launch new products and services driving ongoing differentiated value for our customers. Our overall strategy involves an active corporate development program that seeks to identify partnership and possible investment opportunities in technology-driven companies that can augment Huntington s distribution and product capabilities. Regulatory Matters Regulatory Environment The banking industry is highly regulated. We are subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by various federal and state regulators, including the Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, CFPB, FDIC, FINRA, and various state regulatory agencies. The statutory and regulatory framework that governs us is generally intended to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole. Banking statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Huntington and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on our business or organization. On May 24, 2018, the Economic Growth Act was signed into law. Among other regulatory changes, the Economic Growth Act amends various sections of the Dodd-Frank Act, including section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was revised to raise the asset thresholds for determining the application of enhanced prudential standards for BHCs. Under the Economic Growth Act, BHCs with consolidated assets below $100 billion were immediately exempted from all of the enhanced prudential standards, except risk committee requirements, which now apply to publicly-traded BHCs with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets. BHCs with consolidated assets between $100 billion and $250 billion, including Huntington, were subject to the enhanced prudential standards that applied to them before enactment of the Economic Growth Act until December 31, 2019, when rules adopted by the Federal Reserve that tailor the applicability of enhanced prudential standards and capital and liquidity requirements became effective, as described in detail below. 2019 Form 10-K 10 Table of Contents In October 2019, the Federal Reserve adopted the EPS Tailoring Rule pursuant to the Economic Growth Act, which adjusts the thresholds at which certain enhanced prudential standards apply to U.S. BHCs with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Also in October 2019, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC adopted the Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule, which similarly adjusts the thresholds at which certain other capital and liquidity standards apply to U.S. BHCs and banks with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Under the Tailoring Rules, these BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank, are placed into one of four risk-based categories based on the banking organization s size, status as a global systemically important bank (or not), cross-jurisdictional activity, weighted short-term wholesale funding, nonbank assets, and off-balance sheet exposure. The extent to which enhanced prudential standards and certain other capital and liquidity standards apply to these BHCs and banks depends on the banking organization s category. Under the Tailoring Rules, Huntington and the Bank each qualify as a Category IV banking organization subject to the least restrictive of the requirements applicable to firms with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. As a result of the Economic Growth Act and the Tailoring Rules, Huntington and the Bank are now subject to less restrictive requirements with respect to certain enhanced prudential standards and capital and liquidity requirements than in past years, but our business will remain subject to extensive regulation and supervision. The U.S. banking agencies may issue additional rules to tailor the application of certain other regulatory requirements to BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank. We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC, as well as the rules of Nasdaq that apply to companies with securities listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The following discussion describes certain elements of the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to us. This discussion is not intended to describe all laws and regulations applicable to Huntington, the Bank, and Huntington s other subsidiaries. Huntington as a Bank Holding Company Huntington is registered as a BHC with the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act and qualifies for and has elected to become a FHC under the GLBA. As a FHC, Huntington is permitted to engage in, and be affiliated with companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than those permitted for a BHC. BHCs are generally restricted to engaging in the business of banking, managing or controlling banks, and certain other activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. FHCs may also engage in activities that are considered to be financial in nature, as well as those incidental or complementary to financial activities, including underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities, and making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies. Huntington and the Bank must each remain well-capitalized and well managed in order for Huntington to maintain its status as a FHC. In addition, the Bank must receive a CRA rating of at least Satisfactory at its most recent examination for Huntington to engage in the full range of activities permissible for FHCs. Huntington is subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve, which serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization. The primary regulators of our non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Federal Reserve exercising a supervisory role. Such non-bank subsidiaries include, for example, broker-dealers and investment advisers both registered with the SEC. The Bank as a National Bank The Bank is a national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States. As a national bank, the activities of the Bank are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and OCC regulations. The Bank is subject to comprehensive primary supervision, regulation, and examination by the OCC. As a member of the DIF, the Bank is also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC. Supervision, Examination and Enforcement A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory regime is to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank. Bank regulators regularly examine the operations of BHCs and banks. In addition, BHCs and banks are subject to periodic reporting and filing requirements. 2019 Form 10-K 11 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC have broad supervisory and enforcement authority with regard to BHCs and banks, including the power to conduct examinations and investigations, impose nonpublic supervisory agreements, issue cease and desist orders, impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance, and appoint a conservator or receiver. In addition, Huntington, the Bank, and other Huntington subsidiaries are subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the CFPB, which is the primary administrator of most federal consumer financial statutes and Huntington s primary consumer financial regulator. Supervision and examinations are confidential, and the outcomes of these actions may not be made public. Bank regulators have various remedies available if they determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of a banking organization s operations are unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things, prohibit unsafe or unsound practices, require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice, issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, direct increases in capital, direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, limit dividends and distributions, restrict growth, assess civil monetary penalties, remove officers and directors, and terminate deposit insurance. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory agreements could subject the Company, its subsidiaries, and their respective officers, directors, and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above, and other sanctions. In addition, the FDIC may terminate a bank s deposit insurance upon a finding that the bank s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the bank has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated an applicable rule, regulation, order, or condition enacted or imposed by the bank s regulatory agency. In November 2018, the Federal Reserve adopted a new rating system, the LFI Rating System, to align its supervisory rating system for large financial institutions, including Huntington, with its current supervisory programs fo