Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 43 Item 2. Properties 44 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 44 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 Item 6. [Reserved] 46 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 46 Introduction 46 Executive Overview 46 Discussion of Results of Operations 50 Risk Management and Capital: 55 Credit Risk 57 Market Risk 68 MSR and Price Risk 72 Liquidity Risk 72 Operational Risk 77 Compliance Risk 78 Capital 78 Business Segment Discussion 81 Additional Disclosures 86 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 89 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 89 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 168 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 168 Item 9B. Other Information 168 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 168 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 168 Item 11. Executive Compensation 168 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 169 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 169 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 170 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 170 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 170 Signatures 174 Table of Contents Glossary of Acronyms and Terms The following listing provides a comprehensive reference of common acronyms and terms used throughout the document: ACL Allowance for Credit Losses AFS Available-for-Sale ALCO Asset-Liability Management Committee ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses AML Anti-Money Laundering ANPR Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ASC Accounting Standards Codification ATM Automated Teller Machine AULC Allowance for Unfunded Lending Commitments Bank Secrecy Act Financial Recordkeeping and Reporting of Currency and Foreign Transactions Act of 1970 Basel III Refers to the final rule issued by the FRB and OCC and published in the Federal Register on October 11, 2013 BHC Bank Holding Company BHC Act Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 CARES Act Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, as amended C I Commercial and Industrial CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCPA California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 CDs Certificates of Deposit CDI Core Deposit Intangible CECL Current Expected Credit Losses CET1 Common equity tier 1 on a transitional Basel III basis CFPB Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection CISA Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act CMO Collateralized Mortgage Obligations COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019 CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRE Commercial Real Estate DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act EAD Exposure at Default Economic Growth Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act ELT Executive Leadership Team EPS Earnings Per Share ESG Environmental, Social and Governance EVE Economic Value of Equity FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCRA Fair Credit Reporting Act FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 4 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents FHC Financial Holding Company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FICO Fair Isaac Corporation FinCEN Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. FRB Federal Reserve Bank FRG Financial Recovery Group FTE Fully-Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing FVO Fair Value Option GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act HIC Huntington Investment Company HMDA Home Mortgage Disclosure Act HTM Held-to-Maturity IRS Internal Revenue Service Last-of-Layer Last-of-layer is a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk of a portfolio of similar prepayable assets whereby the last dollar amount within the portfolio of assets is identified as the hedged item LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LFI Rating System Large Financial Institution Rating System LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit LTV Loan-to-Value MBS Mortgage-Backed Securities MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MSA Metropolitan Statistical Area MSR Mortgage Servicing Right NAICS North American Industry Classification System NALs Nonaccrual Loans NCO Net Charge-off NII Net Interest Income NIM Net Interest Margin NPAs Nonperforming Assets OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) OCR Optimal Customer Relationship OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control OLEM Other Loans Especially Mentioned OREO Other Real Estate Owned Patriot Act Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCD Purchased financial assets with credit deterioration PD Probability of Default Plan Huntington Bancshares Retirement Plan PPP Paycheck Protection Program 2021 Form 10-K 5 Table of Contents Problem Loans Includes nonaccrual loans and leases, accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more, troubled debt restructured loans, and criticized commercial loans Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule Refers to the changes to applicability thresholds for regulatory and capital and liquidity requirements, issued by the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC EPS Tailoring Rule Refers to Prudential Standards for Large Bank Holding Companies and Savings and Loan Holding, issued by the Federal Reserve Tailoring Rules Refers to the Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule and the EPS Tailoring Rule RBHPCG Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group REIT Real Estate Investment Trust Riegle-Neal Act The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 ROC Risk Oversight Committee RWA Risk-Weighted Assets SBA Small Business Administration SCB Stress Capital Buffer SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate TCF TCF Financial Corporation TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring U.S. Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury UPB Unpaid Principal Balance VIE Variable Interest Entity XBRL eXtensible Business Reporting Language 6 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents Huntington Bancshares Incorporated PART I When we refer to Huntington, we, our, us, and the Company in this report, we mean Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates that we refer only to the parent company, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated. When we refer to the Bank in this report, we mean our only bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, and its subsidiaries. Item 1: Business We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through the Bank, we have over 150 years of servicing the financial needs of our customers. Through our subsidiaries, we provide full-service commercial and consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, recreational vehicle and marine financing, equipment financing, inventory finance, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance products and services, and other financial products and services. At December 31, 2021, our 1,092 full-service branches and private client group offices are primarily located in Ohio, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Wisconsin. Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio. Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant. On June 9, 2021, Huntington closed the acquisition of TCF Financial Corporation in an all-stock transaction valued at $7.2 billion. TCF was a financial holding company headquartered in Detroit, Michigan with operations across the Midwest. The acquisition brought increased scale and market density, as well as added new markets and capabilities. Historical periods prior to June 9, 2021 reflect results of legacy Huntington operations. Subsequent to closing, results reflect all post-acquisition activity. For further information, refer to Note 3 Acquisition of TCF Financial Corporation of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and assess performance. For each of our four business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks but distinguished by local delivery and customer service. A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our OCR sales and service process. The objectives of OCR are to: Use a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer. Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers. Develop prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us. Following is a description of our four business segments and the Treasury / Other function: Commercial Banking: Through a relationship banking model, the Commercial Banking segment provides a comprehensive set of product offerings and capabilities to middle market, large corporate, specialized industries and government/public sector customers located within our geographic footprint, as well as nationally. The segment is divided into five business units: Regional Commercial Banking, Specialty Banking, Asset Finance, Treasury Management and Capital Markets. Regional Commercial Banking primarily focuses on providing banking solutions to middle market businesses, government and public sector entities, and commercial real estate developers/REITs. Most middle market and government customers are located within our footprint, while our commercial real estate team serves customers nationally. Within commercial real estate, Huntington Community Development focuses on improving the quality of life for our communities and the residents of low-to-moderate income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support affordable housing and neighborhood stabilization. 2021 Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents Specialty Banking offers banking solutions to targeted industries across the country. Industries include healthcare, technology and telecommunications, franchise finance, sponsor finance, and global services. Asset Finance provides equipment financing, asset-based lending, inventory financing, structured lending and municipal financing solutions to small, medium and large commercial and municipal customers across a diversified range of industries on a national basis. Capital Markets delivers capital raising solutions, sales and trading, and corporate risk management products for Commercial customers. Our Institutional Banking business lines serve corporate and public sector customers with access to public markets and sophisticated financing needs. Treasury Management offers a robust suite of payments, working capital and liquidity solutions to help businesses effectively manage their payments and investment activity. Consumer and Business Banking: The Consumer and Business Banking segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, CDs, investments, consumer loans, credit cards, and small business loans. Other financial services available to customers include mortgages, insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign exchange, and treasury management. Huntington serves customers through our network of channels, including branches, online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking, and ATMs. We have a Fair Play banking philosophy: providing differentiated products and services, built on a strong foundation of customer friendly products and advocacy. Our brand resonates with consumers and businesses, helping us acquire new customers and deepen relationships with current customers. Our Fair Play banking suite of products includes 24-Hour Grace , Money Scout , $50 Safety Zone , Early Pay and Standby Cash . Business Banking is a dynamic part of our business and we are committed to being the bank of choice for businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as serving companies with annual revenues up to $20 million. Beyond conventional lending solutions, Huntington offers SBA lending, practice finance and treasury management capabilities. We are the #1 SBA lender in the nation in units as of federal fiscal year end September 30, 2021. Huntington continues to develop products and services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of small business and look for ways to help companies find solutions to their financing needs. Consumer Payments and Lending provides consumer and small business credit and debit cards primarily to our deposit customers as well as unsecured personal loans, personal lines, other direct secured loans. The products are distributed through both branch and online channels. The product suite is aimed at meeting our customers borrowing and transacting needs. The team continues to explore ways to innovate and continue to meet the evolving and rapidly changing payment needs of customers. Home Lending, an operating unit of Consumer and Business Banking, originates consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are primarily distributed through the Consumer and Business Banking and Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group segments, as well as through commissioned loan originators. Home Lending earns interest on portfolio loans and loans held-for-sale, earns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, and recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage loans. Home Lending supports the origination of mortgage loans across all segments. Vehicle Finance: Our products and services include providing financing to consumers for the purchase of automobiles, light-duty trucks, recreational vehicles, and marine craft at franchised and other select dealerships, and providing financing to franchised dealerships for the acquisition of new and used inventory. Products and services are delivered through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained. 8 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents The Vehicle Finance team services automobile dealerships, their owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these franchised dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships has allowed us to expand into select markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships in 27 states while building a strong reputation. Huntington also provides financing for the purchase by consumers of recreational vehicles and marine craft on an indirect basis through a series of dealerships with a 34 state footprint, including coastal states. Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group: Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group is closely aligned with our regional banking markets. A fundamental point of differentiation is our commitment to be actively engaged within our local markets - building connections with community and business leaders and offering a uniquely personal experience delivered by colleagues working within those markets. The core business of The Huntington Private Client Group is The Huntington Private Bank, which consists of Private Banking, Wealth Investment Management, and Retirement Plan Services. The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized lending options), and banking services. The Huntington Private Bank also delivers wealth management and legacy planning through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, and trust services. This group also provides retirement plan services to corporate businesses. The Huntington Private Client Group also provides corporate trust services and institutional and mutual fund custody services. Treasury / Other: The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 25 - Segment Reporting of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD A. ESG ESG Oversight With oversight from our Board of Directors, we and our colleagues are committed to implementing strong ESG practices by living out our Purpose of making people s lives better, helping businesses thrive, and strengthening the communities we serve. The following represents how ESG is governed and integrated throughout the Company: Board Nominating and ESG Committee Board Risk Oversight Committee Executive Leadership Team Risk Management Committee ELT Sponsor ESG Working Group ESG Strategy Team Climate Risk Management Working Group ESG Working Group Huntington s ESG Working Group is primarily responsible for driving the overarching ESG strategy for the Company and making strategy recommendations to the Board; reporting ESG strategy, goals, and progress to the Board (typically on a quarterly basis); and publishing our various ESG disclosures, including the annual ESG Report. The ESG Working Group is comprised of a core, cross-functional group with representatives from our Environmental Strategy Sustainability, Investor Relations, Legal, Corporate Communications, and Corporate Governance functions. To keep abreast of matters throughout the year, this group typically meets on a weekly basis. 2021 Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents ESG Strategy Team The ESG Strategy Team is responsible for advancing the ESG strategy and facilitating implementation of the strategy at the segment- and business unit-level; ensuring consistent understanding of ESG strategy throughout the Company; and assisting with ESG goal setting, reporting, and monitoring. The Team also works to identify ESG-related innovation and advancement opportunities aligned with strategic planning for the enterprise. This larger group includes executive leaders across business segments and support units and meets regularly throughout the year. Climate Risk Management Working Group Our Climate Risk Management Working Group, led by our Climate Risk Director, has the more narrowed focus of creating and monitoring Huntington s Climate Risk Framework, performing climate risk scenario testing, and establishing our financed emissions methodology. Economic Our economic impact begins with our commitment to delivering sustainable, long-term shareholder value through financial performance, while maintaining an aggregate moderate-to-low, through-the-cycle risk appetite and a well-capitalized position. We align our corporate strategy to our purpose of helping others and build upon our market-leading, purpose-driven bank through focused efforts on the environmental, social and governance issues most important to our business and our stakeholders. Following the acquisition of TCF, in June 2021, we committed $40 billion toward a new Strategic Community Plan to strengthen small businesses and foster economic justice through our footprint over the next five years. The Strategic Community Plan builds on the goals of our previous community plans, with expanded commitments focusing on increasing lending and services to address economic, social, environmental, and racial equity areas of need as follows: Huntington committed to providing $24 billion in affordable housing financing and consumer lending. Huntington expanded its Small Business lending programs into its new footprint and committed $10 billion to the programs. Huntington committed $6.5 billion in loans and investments to establish programs and services that foster equity in areas such as affordable housing, small business financing, and community services. Embedded in the areas of need above is a $16 billion commitment for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion initiatives, with allocation of funds to minority borrowers and communities to advance systemic change. Environmental Our approach to environmental sustainability is guided by our Environmental Policy Statement, which outlines our pledge to protect the environment, address climate change, and manage our environmental risks. We demonstrate our commitment and transparency through our disclosures to CDP and our reporting to the TCFD framework. We have made progress on our goals to reduce our operational (Scope 1 and Scope 2) emissions, reduce our landfill waste, paper printing, and water consumption. We have also committed to shifting 50% of our electricity usage to renewable sources by 2035. In November of 2021, we announced our first-ever Climate Risk Director and Environmental Strategy Sustainability Director providing an increased focus on climate risk and environmental related efforts. Human Capital (Social) Huntington aspires to be a Category of One financial services institution: an organization unique in the combination of its culture and performance. Huntington had 18,442 average full-time equivalent colleagues during 2021, all of whom are encouraged to live out a shared purpose of making people s lives better, helping businesses thrive, and strengthening the communities we serve. We believe purpose driven leadership facilitates progress in achieving a diverse and inclusive workforce and in driving performance. 10 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents We engage with our colleagues to gain valuable feedback on a wide range of subjects related to the experience of working at Huntington, with a strategic focus on culture, trust and engagement. We value the feedback colleagues choose to share and use the information to drive our talent management strategy, which focuses on four key areas and a commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion: Engagement Development Retention, and Attraction of top talent Engagement At Huntington, we have taken steps to ensure our values, beliefs, and behaviors align with those of current and potential colleagues. We believe we have highly engaged colleagues committed to looking out for each other and our customers with a balanced focus on what we do and how we do it. This synergy has proven to positively impact colleague performance and satisfaction. 2021 marked the eighth consecutive year we conducted a company-wide engagement survey to measure our colleagues experience across a variety of areas, with a strategic focus on culture, trust, and engagement and the results, which included responses of our newly integrated TCF colleagues, were reaffirming. In 2021, 83%, 85% and 81% responded favorably on culture, trust and engagement respectively. 79% of colleagues responded they would recommend Huntington as a great place to work. In addition to the annual company-wide engagement survey, we further engaged our colleagues by launching three broad pulse surveys. These surveys were leveraged to inform of colleague sentiment on key and timely topics, such as the cultural integration of TCF, the health and safety response to COVID-19, and the transition to remote work. At Huntington, living our shared Purpose extends beyond our daily work. We believe that building connections between colleagues, their families and our communities creates a meaningful, fulfilling and enjoyable colleague experience. During 2021, Huntington colleagues continued to successfully navigate through the on-going pandemic challenges, safely providing over 28,000 volunteer hours to organizations across our footprint. Development We have created specialized programs to help our colleagues grow and develop. These programs include an online library which allows colleagues to take ownership of their development via direct access to role-based content. The content is divided into three key areas of development: learning and growth, maximizing performance, and protecting the company. During 2021, all our colleagues had experienced training within one or more of these areas with an average of 30.7 training hours per average full-time equivalent colleague. Additionally, we expanded learning opportunities across our footprint offering all colleagues the ability to obtain post-secondary education with reimbursement of tuition. Fostering an inclusive work environment is a responsibility shared by all colleagues. To ensure all Huntington colleagues are able to identify the value of, and exhibit, behaviors that drive diversity, equity, and inclusion, we offer year-round training. In 2021, our colleagues collectively completed 1.3 hours per average full-time equivalent colleague of diversity, equity and inclusion training, with additional opportunities to participate in Inclusion Council and Business Resource Group events. Retention Huntington offers competitive rewards programs that further strengthen our employment value proposition and encourages colleague retention. Our compensation structure includes benefit plans and programs focused on multiple facets of well-being, including physical, mental, and financial wellness. Effective January 1, 2022 we increased the minimum hourly pay rate to $19. We also offer Workplace Flex to help employees achieve work/life harmony with flexible work arrangements, parental leave, and other health, wellness and financial benefits and services that assist employees and their families. Our Workplace Flex includes flextime, staggered hours, compressed workweek, part-time schedule or working remote. 2021 Form 10-K 11 Table of Contents Huntington is committed to pay equity so that gender, race, and ethnicity are not determining factors in salaries, bonuses, and stock-based awards. We continue to identify and implement effective practices to promote pay equity, including pay analyses, additional hiring practices that protect pay equity, and training managers on explicit and implicit bias in compensation and promotion decisions. Huntington seeks to maintain approximately 100% pay equity. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes to support the interests and needs of our colleagues, as well as the communities in which we operate. This includes mobilizing work access for roles that can be performed remotely and implementing additional safety measures for colleagues while continuing critical on-site duties. Further, we implemented colleague relief benefits, such as paid emergency leave and emergency childcare time off so that our colleagues can have peace of mind concerning events that may require time away from work. Collectively, these strategies create a colleague experience that entices colleagues to stay and fulfill their dreams with Huntington. Attraction of top talent We are dedicated to attracting top talent with an emphasis on experience and behaviors that align with our Purpose and our core values of Can Do, Forward Thinking, and Service Heart . The diversity of our colleagues is a key component of our success as an organization as it allows us to have a workforce that is representative of the communities we serve. We define diversity as women and any race category other than white. We proactively seek out a diverse candidate pool during the recruitment process across all levels and include a declaration in our employee handbooks about our commitment to fair and equitable treatment for all colleagues. To keep current on colleague diversity, Huntington offers an opportunity annually for all colleagues to self-identify with respect to gender, ethnicity and race, disability and veteran s status. During 2021, we offered select student internships to serve as a pipeline for entry-level talent with 73% of these internships fulfilled by diverse students. Additionally, we are focused on identifying, supporting and promoting qualified diverse candidates in leadership roles, where as of December 31, 2021, our combined middle, senior and executive management levels are 45% diverse. As of December 31, 2021, our total workforce was 68% diverse. We understand that to support our diverse culture, we must also have inclusion, which is a corporate strategic objective. Huntington executes a strategy of inclusion in multiple ways. First, our Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Officer ensures Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion perspectives are an integral part of executive decisions made at Huntington. This is achieved by measuring and socializing progress on diversity across our footprint and providing diversity and inclusion programs to our colleagues. I