Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 40 I tem 1C. Cybersecurity 41 Item 2. Properties 42 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 42 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 42 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 43 Item 6. [Reserved] 43 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Introduction 44 Executive Overview 44 Discussion of Results of Operations 47 Risk Management and Capital: 53 R isk Governance 53 Credit Risk 55 Market Risk 68 Liquidity Risk 71 Operational Risk 77 Compliance Risk 78 Capital 78 Business Segment Discussion 81 Additional Disclosures 85 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 88 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 88 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 160 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 160 Item 9B. Other Information 160 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 160 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 160 Item 11. Executive Compensation 161 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 161 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 161 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 161 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 162 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 162 Signatures 166 Table of Contents Glossary of Acronyms and Terms The following listing provides a comprehensive reference of common acronyms and terms used throughout the document: ACL Allowance for Credit Losses AFS Available-for-Sale ALCO Asset-Liability Management Committee ALLL Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses AML Anti-Money Laundering AOCI Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) ASC Accounting Standards Codification ASU Accounting Standards Update ATM Automated Teller Machine AULC Allowance for Unfunded Lending Commitments Bank Secrecy Act Financial Recordkeeping and Reporting of Currency and Foreign Transactions Act of 1970 Basel III Refers to the final rule issued by the Federal Reserve and OCC and published in the Federal Register on October 11, 2013 BHC Bank Holding Company BHC Act Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 BTFP Bank Term Funding Program Capstone Partners Capstone Enterprises LLC C I Commercial and Industrial CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCB Capital Conservation Buffer CCPA California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 CDs Certificates of Deposit CDS Credit Default Swap CECL Current Expected Credit Losses CEO Chief Executive Officer CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 on a Basel III basis CFO Chief Financial Officer CFPB Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection CISA Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act CMO Collateralized Mortgage Obligations CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019 CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CRA Community Reinvestment Act CRE Commercial Real Estate CRO Chief Risk Officer CRT Credit Risk Transfer DEI Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DIF Deposit Insurance Fund Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act EAD Exposure at Default Economic Growth Act Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act 4 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents ELT Executive Leadership Team EOP End of Period EPS Earnings Per Share ERM Enterprise Risk Management ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance EVE Economic Value of Equity FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCRA Fair Credit Reporting Act FDIA Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federal Reserve Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FHC Financial Holding Company FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank FICO Fair Isaac Corporation FinCEN Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FINRA Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. FRB Federal Reserve Bank FRG Financial Recovery Group FTE Fully-Taxable Equivalent FTP Funds Transfer Pricing FVO Fair Value Option GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America GDP Gross Domestic Product GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act HIC Huntington Investment Company HMDA Home Mortgage Disclosure Act HTM Held-to-Maturity IRS Internal Revenue Service Last-of-Layer Last-of-layer is a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk of a portfolio of similar prepayable assets whereby the last dollar amount within the portfolio of assets is identified as the hedged item LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio LFI Rating System Large Financial Institution Rating System LGD Loss Given Default LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit LTV Loan-to-Value MBS Mortgage-Backed Securities MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MSA Metropolitan Statistical Area MSR Mortgage Servicing Right NAICS North American Industry Classification System NALs Nonaccrual Loans NCO Net Charge-off NII Net Interest Income NIM Net Interest Margin NM Not Meaningful NPAs Nonperforming Assets 2023 Form 10-K 5 Table of Contents OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCI Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) OCR Optimal Customer Relationship OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control OLEM Other Loans Especially Mentioned OREO Other Real Estate Owned Patriot Act Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCD Purchased Credit Deteriorated PD Probability of Default Plan Huntington Bancshares Retirement Plan PPP Paycheck Protection Program Problem Loans Includes nonaccrual loans and leases, accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more, troubled debt restructured loans, and criticized commercial loans RBHPCG Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group REIT Real Estate Investment Trust Riegle-Neal Act The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 ROC Risk Oversight Committee RPS Retirement Plan Services RV Recreational vehicle RWA Risk-Weighted Assets SBA Small Business Administration SCB Stress Capital Buffer SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate Tailoring Rules Refers to the Capital and Liquidity Tailoring Rule, which refers to changes to applicability thresholds for regulatory and capital and liquidity requirements, issued by the OCC, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC, and the EPS Tailoring Rule, which refers to the Prudential Standards for Large Bank Holding Companies and Savings and Loan Holding, issued by the Federal Reserve TBA To Be Announced TCF TCF Financial Corporation TCFD Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures TDR Troubled Debt Restructuring Torana Digital Payments Torana, Inc. U.S. Treasury U.S. Department of the Treasury VIE Variable Interest Entity XBRL eXtensible Business Reporting Language 6 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents Huntington Bancshares Incorporated PART I When we refer to Huntington, we, our, us, and the Company in this report, we mean Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and our consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates that we refer only to the parent company, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated. When we refer to the Bank in this report, we mean our only bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, and its subsidiaries. Item 1: Business General Business Description We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through the Bank, we are committed to making people s lives better, helping businesses thrive, and strengthening the communities we serve, and we have been servicing the financial needs of our customers since 1866. Through our subsidiaries, we provide full-service commercial and consumer deposit, lending, and other banking services. These include, but are not limited to, payments, mortgage banking, automobile, recreational vehicle and marine financing, investment banking, capital markets, advisory, equipment financing, distribution finance, investment management, trust, brokerage, insurance, and other financial products and services. As of December 31, 2023, our 999 full-service branches and private client group offices are primarily located in Ohio, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in other states. Business Segments Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and assess performance. For each business segment, we expect the combination of our business model, investment in products and capabilities, and exceptional service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth. Our business model emphasizes the delivery of a complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks but distinguished by local delivery and customer service. A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships using our OCR sales and service process, which aligns to our vision to be the leading people-first, digitally powered bank. The objectives of OCR are to: Use a consultative and advisory sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer; Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers; and Develop prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us. To align with our strategic priorities, during the second quarter of 2023, we completed an organizational realignment and now report on two business segments: Consumer Regional Banking and Commercial Banking. The organizational realignment primarily involved consolidating our previously reported Consumer and Business Banking, Vehicle Finance and RBHPCG, into one new business segment called Consumer Regional Banking. Following is a description of our business segments and the Treasury / Other function: Consumer Regional Banking: The Consumer Regional Banking segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and business customers including, but not limited to, deposits, lending, payments, mortgage banking, dealer financing, investment management, trust, brokerage, insurance, and other financial products and services. We serve our customers through our network of channels, including branches and ATMs, online and mobile banking, and through our customer call centers. We have a Fair Play banking philosophy: providing differentiated products and services, built on a strong foundation of customer friendly products and advocacy. Our brand resonates with consumers and businesses, helping us acquire new customers and deepen relationships with current customers. Our Fair Play banking suite of products includes 24-Hour Grace , Asterisk-Free Checking , Money Scout , $50 Safety Zone , Standby Cash , Early Pay, Instant Access, Savings Goal Getter and Huntington Heads Up . 2023 Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents Consumer Regional Banking offers a comprehensive set of digitally powered consumer and business financial solutions to Consumer Lending, Regional Banking, Branch Banking, and Wealth Management customers. Consumer Lending provides direct and indirect consumer loans, as well as dealer finance loans and deposits. The direct consumer loan products, including mortgage and home equity, are originated through branch, online, and third-party channels. Indirect consumer loans are originated through deep relationships with dealerships to finance consumer purchases of automobiles, recreational vehicles, marine craft, and powersports. We also provide dealer finance loans (including floorplan loans), deposits, and other financial products to these dealerships and their owners. Regional Banking, along with our business and specialty banking offerings, is a dynamic part of our business and we are committed to being the bank of choice for businesses in our markets. Regional Banking is defined as serving small to mid-sized businesses. Beyond conventional lending solutions, Huntington offers access to capital markets, practice finance, and SBA lending capabilities. We are the #1 SBA lender in the nation by loan volume as of federal fiscal year end September 30, 2023. In addition, our payments business provides credit and debit cards and treasury management services to our customers. Huntington continues to develop products and services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of business customers and looks for ways to help companies find solutions to their financing needs. Branch Banking provides a full range of financial products and services to consumer and business customers through our extensive branch and ATM network. The branch network offers full-service branches that are primarily located in Ohio, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Wealth Management has a comprehensive product offering, including private banking, wealth management and legacy planning through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration and trust services, institutional custody services, and full-service retail brokerage investments. Commercial Banking: The Commercial Banking segment provides expertise through bankers, capabilities, and digital channels, and includes a comprehensive set of product offerings. Our target clients span from mid-market to large corporates across a national footprint. The Commercial Banking segment leverages internal partnerships for wealth management, trust, insurance, payments, and treasury management capabilities. In particular, our payments capabilities continue to expand as we develop unique solutions for our diverse client segments, including Huntington ChoicePay. The Commercial Banking segment includes customers in Middle Market Banking, Corporate, Specialty, and Government Banking, Asset Finance, Commercial Real Estate Banking, and Capital Markets. Middle Market Banking serves the banking needs of mid-sized clients, leveraging our local presence to serve our clients, and extending our full suite of banking products including lending, liquidity, treasury management and other payment services, and capital markets. Corporate, Specialty, and Government Banking serves medium to large enterprises. We focus on specific industry verticals such as government and non-profits, healthcare, technology and telecommunications, franchises, financial sponsors, and global services. Our expertise in these markets allows us to uniquely serve our clients sophisticated banking, capital markets, and payments requirements. Asset Finance serves our clients capital expenditure and working capital needs through equipment financing, asset-based lending, distribution finance, structured lending, and municipal financing solutions. Our relationship with large manufacturers is bolstered by a strong commitment to their dealers and financing needs. Commercial Real Estate Banking provides banking solutions to commercial real estate developers and institutional sponsors across the nation. Within this group, Huntington Community Development improves the quality of life for our communities and the residents of low-to-moderate income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support affordable housing and neighborhood stabilization, including tax credit investments. 8 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents Capital Markets delivers corporate risk management, institutional sales and trading, debt and equity issuance, and additional advisory services. Treasury / Other: The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, and other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 25 - Segment Reporting of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD A. Competition We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, equipment and automobile financing companies (including captive automobile finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment advisors, brokerage firms, and non-bank lenders both within and outside of our primary market areas. Financial Technology Companies, or FinTechs, are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borrowers, depositors, and other customers. We compete for loans primarily on the basis of value and service by building customer relationships through addressing our customers entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience. We also consider the competitive pricing levels in each of our markets. We compete for deposits similarly on the basis of value and service and by providing convenience through a banking network of branches and ATMs within our markets and our website at www.huntington.com. We employ customer friendly practices, such as a $50 Safety Zone sm , which prevents customers from being charged an overdraft fee if they overdraw by $50 or less, 24-Hour Grace account feature for both commercial and consumer accounts, which gives customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their account without being charged overdraft fees, Early Pay, which allows customers with direct deposit availability to their paycheck up to two days early, Instant Access, which allows up to $500 of a check deposit available to customers immediately, and Asterisk-Free Checking where there is no cost to open and no monthly maintenance fees. In addition, customers can qualify for Standby Cash based primarily on their checking deposit history, not their credit score, which provides a $100 to $500 short-term line of credit free with automatic payments, or a 1% monthly interest charge without automatic payments. Huntington also has created a feature called Money Scout sm , which is a tool that analyzes a customer s spending habits and moves money that is not being used into that customer s savings account and have introduced tools including The Hub and Huntington Heads Up to provide customers greater visibility and control over their financial future. These measures fall under our approach of Fair Play Banking. The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share based on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as of June 30, 2023, in the top 10 MSAs in which we compete: MSA Rank Deposits (in millions) Market Share Columbus, OH 1 $ 41,638 40 % Detroit, MI 4 16,844 9 Cleveland, OH 2 14,254 11 Chicago, IL 11 9,149 2 Minneapolis-St. Paul, MN 4 6,565 3 Grand Rapids, MI 1 5,605 19 Indianapolis, IN 5 5,501 6 Akron, OH 1 5,054 28 Cincinnati, OH 5 4,497 2 Pittsburgh, PA 7 4,422 2 Source: FDIC.gov, based on June 30, 2023 survey. 2023 Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, access to a larger pool of capital to deploy, and, in some cases, lower cost structures. In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, and consolidation among financial service providers. FinTechs continue to emerge in key areas of banking. In addition, larger established technology platform companies continue to evaluate, and in some cases, create businesses focused on banking products. We closely monitor activity in the marketplace to ensure that our products and services are technologically competitive. Further, we continue to invest in and evolve our innovation program to develop, incubate, and launch new products and services driving ongoing differentiated value for our customers. Our overall strategy involves an active corporate development program that seeks to identify partnership and possible investment opportunities in technology-driven companies that can augment our distribution and product capabilities. Regulatory Matters Regulatory Environment The banking industry is highly regulated. We are subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by various federal and state regulators, including the Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, CFPB, FDIC, FINRA, and various state regulatory agencies. The statutory and regulatory framework that governs us is generally intended to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole. Banking statutes, regulations, and policies are continually under review by Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters, and similar written guidance applicable to Huntington and its subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on our business or organization. Huntington and the Bank each qualify as a Category IV banking organization subject to the least restrictive of the requirements applicable to firms with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets. Our business, however, remains subject to extensive regulation and supervision, and the U.S. banking agencies may issue additional rules to tailor the application of certain other regulatory requirements to BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank. The scope of laws and regulations and the intensity of supervision to which we are subject has increased in response to the banking turmoil in early 2023, technological factors, market changes, and climate change concerns, and there is increased scrutiny and possible denials of bank mergers and acquisitions by federal banking regulators. We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC, as well as the rules of Nasdaq that apply to companies with securities listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The following discussion describes certain elements of the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to us. This discussion is not intended to describe all laws and regulations applicable to Huntington, the Bank, and Huntington s other subsidiaries. Supervision, Examination and Enforcement Huntington is a BHC under the BHC Act that has elected to be a FHC. FHCs may engage in, and be affiliated with, companies engaging in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a BHC, so long as such activities are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include, for example, securities underwriting, securities dealing, making a market in securities, making merchant banking investments in non-financial companies, and engaging in insurance underwriting and agency activities. To become and remain eligible for FHC status, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must meet certain criteria, including capital, management, and CRA requirements. Failure to meet such criteria could result, depending on which requirements were not met, in restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions, or being required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for BHCs. 10 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Table of Contents Huntington is subject to primary supervision, regulation, and examination by the Federal Reserve, which serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization. The primary regulators of our non-bank subsidiaries directly regulate the activities of those subsidiaries, with the Federal Reserve exercising a supervisory role. Such non-bank subsidiaries include, for example, broker-dealers and investment advisers both registered with the SEC. The Bank is a national banking association chartered under the laws of the U.S. As a national bank, the activities of the Bank are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and OCC regulations. The Bank is subject to comprehensive primary supervision, regulation, and examination by the OCC. As a member of the DIF, the Bank is also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC. A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory regime is to protect depositors and customers, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of BHCs and banks, including Huntington and the Bank. Bank regulators regularly examine the operations of BHCs and banks. In addition, BHCs and banks are subject to periodic reporting and filing requirements. The Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC have broad supervisory and enforcement authority with regard to BHCs and banks, including the power to conduct examinations and investigations, impose nonpublic supervisory agreements, issue cease and desist orders, impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, terminate deposit insurance, and appoint a conservator or receiver. In addition, Huntington, the Bank, and other Huntington subsidiaries are subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the CFPB, which is the primary administrator of most federal consumer financial statutes and Huntington s primary consumer financial regulator. Supervision and examinations are confidential, and the outcomes of these actions may not be made public. Bank regulators have various remedies available if they determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of a banking organization s operations are unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things, (1) prohibit unsafe or unsound practices, (2) require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice, (3) issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, (4) direct increases in capital, (5) direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, (6) limit dividends and distributions, (7) restrict growth, (8) assess civil monetary penalties, (9) remove officers and directors, and (10) terminate deposit insurance. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory agreements could subject the Company, its subsidiaries, and their respective officers, directors, and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above, and other sanctions. In addition, the FDIC may terminate a bank s deposit insurance upon a finding that the bank s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the bank has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated an applicable rule, regulation, order, or condition enacted or imposed by the bank s regulatory agency. Huntington is subject to the Federal Reserve s LFI Rating System, which places a greater emphasis on capital and liquidity, including related planning and risk management practices, as compared to the supervisory rating system applicable to smaller BHCs. These ratings are confidential. Bank Acquisitions by Huntington BHCs, such as Huntington, must obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve in connection with any acquisition that results in the BHC owning or controlling 5% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank or another BHC. Acquisitions of Ownership of the Company Acquisitions of Huntington s voting stock above certain thresholds are subject to prior regulatory notice or approval under federal banking laws, including the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, a person or entity generally must provide prior notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring the power to vote 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Investors should be aware of these requirements when acquiring shares in our stock. 2023 Form 10-K 11 Table of Contents Interstate Banking Under the Riegle-Neal Act, a BHC may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the BHC not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the BHC s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state). The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches. A national bank, such as the Bank, with the approval of the OCC may open a branch in any state if the law of that state would permit a state bank chartered in that state to establish the branch. Enhanced Prudential Standards BHCs with consolidated assets of more than $100 billion, such as Huntington, are currently subject to certain enhanced prudential standards. As a r