Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 30 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 47 Item 2. Properties 4 7 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 4 8 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 5 1 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 5 3 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 7 3 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 7 3 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 7 3 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 7 3 Item 9B. Other Information 7 5 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 7 5 Item 11. Executive Compensation 7 5 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 7 6 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 7 6 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 7 6 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 7 7 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 9 0 Signatures 9 1 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General HCA Healthcare, Inc. is one of the leading health care services companies in the United States. At December 31, 2019, we operated 184 hospitals, comprised of 179 general, acute care hospitals; three psychiatric hospitals; and two rehabilitation hospitals. In addition, we operated 123 freestanding surgery centers. Our facilities are located in 21 states and England. The terms Company, HCA, we, our or us, as used herein and unless otherwise stated or indicated by context, refer to HCA Healthcare, Inc. and its affiliates. The term affiliates means direct and indirect subsidiaries of HCA Healthcare, Inc. and partnerships and joint ventures in which such subsidiaries are partners. The terms facilities or hospitals refer to entities owned and operated by affiliates of HCA, and the term employees refers to employees of affiliates of HCA. Our primary objective is to provide a comprehensive array of quality health care services in the most cost-effective manner possible. Our general, acute care hospitals typically provide a full range of services to accommodate such medical specialties as internal medicine, general surgery, cardiology, oncology, neurosurgery, orthopedics and obstetrics, as well as diagnostic and emergency services. Outpatient and ancillary health care services are provided by our general, acute care hospitals, freestanding surgery centers, freestanding emergency care facilities, urgent care facilities, walk-in clinics, diagnostic centers and rehabilitation facilities. Our psychiatric hospitals provide a full range of mental health care services through inpatient, partial hospitalization and outpatient settings. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol HCA ). Through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1968. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in October 2010. Our principal executive offices are located at One Park Plaza, Nashville, Tennessee 37203, and our telephone number is (615) 344-9551. Available Information We file certain reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements and other information we file. Our website address is www.hcahealthcare.com. Please note that our website address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. We make available free of charge, through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. Our Code of Conduct is available free of charge upon request to our Corporate Secretary, HCA Healthcare, Inc., One Park Plaza, Nashville, Tennessee 37203, and is also available on the Ethics and Compliance and Corporate Governance portion of our website at www.hcahealthcare.com. 3 Table of Contents Business Strategy We are committed to providing the communities we serve with high quality, cost-effective health care while growing our business and creating long-term value for our stockholders. To achieve these objectives, we align our efforts around the following growth agenda: grow our presence in existing markets; achieve industry-leading performance in clinical and satisfaction measures; recruit and employ physicians to meet the need for high quality health services; continue to leverage our scale and market positions to grow the Company; and pursue a disciplined development strategy. Health Care Facilities We currently own, manage or operate hospitals, freestanding surgery centers, freestanding emergency care facilities, urgent care facilities, walk-in clinics, diagnostic and imaging centers, radiation and oncology therapy centers, comprehensive rehabilitation and physical therapy centers, physician practices and various other facilities. At December 31, 2019, we owned and operated 179 general, acute care hospitals with 48,443 licensed beds. Most of our general, acute care hospitals provide medical and surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. The general, acute care hospitals also provide outpatient services such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology and physical therapy. Each hospital has an organized medical staff and a local board of trustees or governing board, made up of members of the local community. At December 31, 2019, we operated three psychiatric hospitals with 412 licensed beds. Our psychiatric hospitals provide therapeutic programs, including child, adolescent and adult psychiatric care and adolescent and adult alcohol and drug abuse treatment and counseling. We also operate outpatient health care facilities, which include freestanding ambulatory surgery centers ( ASCs ), freestanding emergency care facilities, urgent care facilities, walk-in clinics, diagnostic and imaging centers, comprehensive rehabilitation and physical therapy centers, radiation and oncology therapy centers, physician practices and various other facilities. These outpatient services are an integral component of our strategy to develop comprehensive health care networks in select communities. Most of our ASCs are operated through partnerships or limited liability companies, with majority ownership of each partnership or limited liability company typically held by a general partner or member that is an affiliate of HCA. Certain of our affiliates provide a variety of management services to our health care facilities, including patient safety programs, ethics and compliance programs, national supply contracts, equipment purchasing and leasing contracts, accounting, financial and clinical systems, governmental reimbursement assistance, construction planning and coordination, information technology systems and solutions, legal counsel, human resources services and internal audit services. Sources of Revenue Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and ancillary services ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or payment rates for such services. Reimbursement rates for inpatient and outpatient services vary significantly depending on the type of third-party payer, the type of service (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or psychiatric) and the geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control. 4 Table of Contents We receive payments for patient services from the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid or similar programs, managed care plans (including plans offered through the American Health Benefit Exchanges ( Exchanges )), private insurers and directly from patients. Our revenues by primary third-party payer classification and other (including uninsured patients) for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 are summarized in the following table (dollars in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2019 Ratio 2018 Ratio 2017 Ratio Medicare $ 10,798 21.0 % $ 9,831 21.1 % $ 9,285 21.3 % Managed Medicare 6,452 12.6 5,497 11.8 4,680 10.7 Medicaid 1,572 3.1 1,358 2.9 1,316 3.0 Managed Medicaid 2,450 4.8 2,403 5.1 2,165 5.0 Managed care and other insurers 26,544 51.6 24,467 52.4 23,342 53.5 International (managed care and other insurers) 1,162 2.3 1,156 2.5 1,097 2.5 Other 2,358 4.6 1,965 4.2 1,729 4.0 Revenues $ 51,336 100.0 % $ 46,677 100.0 % $ 43,614 100.0 % Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons age 65 and over, some disabled persons, persons with end-stage renal disease and persons with Lou Gehrig s Disease. Medicaid is a federal-state program, administered by the states, that provides hospital and medical benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford health care. All of our general, acute care hospitals located in the United States are eligible to participate in Medicare and Medicaid programs. Amounts received under Medicare and Medicaid programs are generally significantly less than established hospital gross charges for the services provided. Our hospitals generally offer discounts from established charges to certain group purchasers of health care services, including private health insurers, employers, health maintenance organizations ( HMOs ), preferred provider organizations ( PPOs ) and other managed care plans, including health plans offered through the Exchanges. These discount programs generally limit our ability to increase revenues in response to increasing costs. See Item 1, Business Competition. For services under Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs, PPOs and other managed care plans, patients are generally responsible for any exclusions, deductibles or coinsurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and coinsurance continues to increase. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from government health care programs or other third-party payers. We provide discounts to uninsured patients who do not qualify for Medicaid or for financial relief under our charity care policy. We may attempt to provide assistance to uninsured patients to help determine whether they may qualify for Medicaid, other federal or state assistance or charity care under our charity care policy. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. Medicare In addition to the reimbursement reductions and adjustments discussed below, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the BCA ) requires automatic spending reductions to reduce the federal deficit, including Medicare spending reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all Medicare programs. In 2013, the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services ( CMS ) began imposing a 2.0% reduction on Medicare payments, and these reductions have been extended through 2029. Inpatient Acute Care Under the Medicare program, we receive reimbursement under a prospective payment system ( PPS ) for general, acute care hospital inpatient services. Under the hospital inpatient PPS, fixed payment amounts per inpatient discharge are established based on the patient s assigned Medicare severity diagnosis-related group 5 Table of Contents ( MS-DRG ). MS-DRGs classify treatments for illnesses according to the estimated intensity of hospital resources necessary to furnish care for each principal diagnosis. MS-DRG weights represent the average resources for a given MS-DRG relative to the average resources for all MS-DRGs. MS-DRG payments are adjusted for area wage differentials. Hospitals, other than those defined as new, receive PPS reimbursement for inpatient capital costs based on MS-DRG weights multiplied by a geographically adjusted federal rate. When the cost to treat certain patients falls well outside the normal distribution, providers typically receive additional outlier payments. These payments are financed by offsetting reductions in the inpatient PPS rates. A high-cost outlier threshold is set annually at a level that will result in estimated outlier payments equaling 5.1% of total inpatient PPS payments for the fiscal year. MS-DRG rates are updated, and MS-DRG weights are recalibrated, using cost-relative weights each federal fiscal year (which begins October 1). The index used to update the MS-DRG rates (the market basket ) gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals and entities outside the health care industry in purchasing goods and services. Each federal fiscal year, the annual market basket update is reduced by a productivity adjustment based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) 10-year moving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity, as required by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the Affordable Care Act ). A decrease in payment rates or an increase in rates that is below the increase in our costs may adversely affect our results of operations. For federal fiscal year 2019, CMS increased the MS-DRG rate by approximately 1.85%. This increase reflected a market basket update of 2.9%, adjusted by the following percentage points: a 0.75 reduction required by the Affordable Care Act, a negative 0.8 productivity adjustment, and a positive 0.5 adjustment in accordance with the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 ( MACRA ). For federal fiscal year 2020, CMS increased the MS-DRG rate by approximately 3.1%. This increase reflects a market basket update of 3.0%, adjusted by the following percentage points: a negative 0.4 productivity adjustment and a positive 0.5 adjustment required by MACRA. Additional adjustments may apply, depending on patient-specific or hospital-specific factors. For example, the two midnight rule limits payments to hospitals when services to Medicare beneficiaries are payable as inpatient services. In addition, under the post-acute care transfer policy, Medicare reimbursement rates may be reduced when an inpatient hospital discharges a patient in a specified MS-DRG to certain post-acute care settings, including, effective October 1, 2018, hospice care. CMS has implemented and is implementing a number of programs and requirements intended to transform Medicare from a passive payer to an active purchaser of quality goods and services. For example, hospitals that do not successfully participate in the Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting Program are subject to a 25% reduction of the market basket update. Hospitals that do not demonstrate meaningful use of electronic health records ( EHRs ) are subject to a 75% reduction of the market basket update. Medicare does not allow an inpatient hospital discharge to be assigned to a higher paying MS-DRG if certain designated hospital acquired conditions ( HACs ) were not present on admission and the identified HAC is the only condition resulting in the assignment of the higher paying MS-DRG. In this situation, the case is paid as though the secondary diagnosis was not present. There are currently 14 categories of conditions on the list of HACs. In addition, the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted HAC scores in the designated performance period receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient PPS Medicare payments. CMS has also established three National Coverage Determinations that prohibit Medicare reimbursement for erroneous surgical procedures performed on an inpatient or outpatient basis. Payments to hospitals may also be reduced based on readmission rates. Each federal fiscal year, inpatient payments are reduced if a hospital experiences excess readmissions within the 30-day time period from the date of discharge for conditions designated by CMS. For federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years, CMS has designated six conditions or procedures, including heart attack, pneumonia and total hip arthroplasty. Hospitals with what CMS defines as excess readmissions for these conditions or procedures receive reduced payments for 6 Table of Contents all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions or procedures subject to the excess readmission standard. The amount by which payments are reduced is determined by assessing a hospital s performance relative to hospitals with similar proportions of dual eligible patients, subject to a cap established by CMS. The reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions can be up to 3% of a hospital s base payments. Each hospital s performance is publicly reported by CMS. In addition, CMS reduces the inpatient PPS payment amount for all discharges by 2.0%. The total amount collected from these reductions is pooled and used to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet certain quality performance standards established by CMS. CMS scores each hospital based on achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement ranges (relative to the hospital s own past performance) for each applicable performance standard. Because the Affordable Care Act provides that the pool will be fully distributed, hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. Hospitals that do not achieve the necessary quality performance receive reduced Medicare inpatient hospital payments. Hospitals are scored on a number of individual measures that are categorized into four domains: clinical outcomes; efficiency and cost reduction; safety; and person and community engagement. CMS estimates that $1.9 billion will be available to hospitals as incentive payments in federal fiscal year 2020 under the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing Program. Outpatient CMS reimburses hospital outpatient services (and certain Medicare Part B services furnished to hospital inpatients who have no Part A coverage) on a PPS basis. CMS uses fee schedules to pay for physical, occupational and speech therapies, durable medical equipment, clinical diagnostic laboratory services, nonimplantable orthotics and prosthetics, freestanding surgery center services and services provided by independent diagnostic testing facilities. In addition, certain items and services furnished by off-campus provider-based departments, subject to certain exceptions, are not covered as outpatient department services under the outpatient PPS, but are reimbursed under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule ( Physician Fee Schedule ), subject to adjustments as specified by CMS. In calendar year 2019, CMS began a two-year phase-in of an expanded site-neutral policy under which clinic visit services provided at all off-campus provider-based departments are reimbursed at the Physician Fee Schedule rate, which is generally lower than the PPS rate. Previously, this rate did not apply to excepted provider-based departments. However, in September 2019, a federal judge invalidated the expansion of the site-neutral payment policy for 2019. CMS is appealing this decision, but it is reprocessing the 2019 claims paid at the lower rates. For calendar year 2020, CMS issued a final rule implementing year two of the policy phase-in. Hospitals have also challenged the policy for 2020, but the case has not yet been decided. Hospital outpatient services paid under PPS are classified into groups called ambulatory payment classifications ( APCs ). Services for each APC are similar clinically and in terms of the resources they require. A payment rate is established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, a hospital may be paid for more than one APC for a patient visit. The APC payment rates are updated for each calendar year. Each calendar year, the annual market basket update is further reduced by a productivity adjustment based on the BLS 10-year moving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity as required by the Affordable Care Act. For calendar year 2019, CMS increased APC payment rates by an estimated 1.35%. This increase reflected a market basket increase of 2.9% with a negative 0.8 percentage point productivity adjustment and a negative 0.75 percentage point adjustment required by the Affordable Care Act. For calendar year 2020, CMS increased APC payment rates by an estimated 2.6%. This increase reflects a market basket increase of 3.0% with a negative 0.4 percentage point productivity adjustment. Together with other policy changes, CMS estimates that the calendar year 2020 rates will increase Medicare outpatient PPS payments by 1.3%. CMS requires hospitals to submit quality data relating to outpatient care to avoid receiving a 2.0 percentage point reduction in the annual payment update under the outpatient PPS. The 340B program allows participating hospitals to purchase certain outpatient drugs from manufacturers at discounted rates. These hospitals are reimbursed for the discounted drugs under the same Medicare payment 7 Table of Contents methodology and rates as are applied to non-340B-discounted drugs. In a final rule effective January 1, 2018, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) reduced the Medicare payments under the outpatient PPS for most drugs obtained at the 340B-discounted rates. HHS continued to apply the reduced rates in 2019. On May 6, 2019, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia reaffirmed its ruling that the adoption of the 2018 rule had exceeded HHS statutory authority and reached the same conclusion with respect to a final rule for the 2019 rates. The court has remanded to the agency to craft appropriate remedies to implement the holding. HHS is appealing the decision but has also announced its intent to survey hospitals for drug acquisition cost data, which it may use to craft a remedy. Depending upon the remedy and the outcome of any appeal, this case could result in a decrease to the Company s outpatient Medicare reimbursement. For calendar year 2020, HHS will continue to pay the reduced rates that took effect in 2018, although this is also the subject of ongoing litigation. Rehabilitation CMS reimburses inpatient rehabilitation facilities ( IRFs ) on a PPS basis. Under the IRF PPS, patients are classified into case mix groups that reflect the relative resource intensity typically associated with the patient s clinical condition. The case mix groups are based upon impairment, age, functional motor and cognitive scores, and comorbidities (additional diseases or disorders from which the patient suffers). IRFs are paid a predetermined amount per discharge that reflects the patient s case mix group and is adjusted for facility-specific factors, such as area wage levels, proportion of low-income patients, and location in a rural area. Each federal fiscal year, the IRF rates are updated using a market basket index, which is reduced by a productivity adjustment based on the BLS 10-year moving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity. For federal fiscal year 2019, CMS increased IRF payment rates by an estimated 1.3%, reflecting an IRF market basket update of 2.9% with a negative 0.8 percentage point productivity adjustment and a 0.75 percentage point reduction required by the Affordable Care Act, among other payment adjustments. For federal fiscal year 2020, CMS increased IRF payment rates by an estimated 2.5%, reflecting an IRF market basket update of 2.9% with a negative 0.4 percentage point productivity adjustment. In addition, CMS requires IRFs to report quality measures to avoid receiving a reduction of 2.0 percentage points to the market basket update. CMS has indicated that it is working toward a unified payment system for post-acute care services, including those provided by IRFs. In order to qualify for classification as an IRF, at least 60% of a facility s inpatients during the most recent 12-month CMS-defined review period must have required intensive rehabilitation services for one or more of 13 specified conditions. IRFs must also meet additional coverage criteria, including patient selection and care requirements relating to pre-admission screenings, post-admission evaluations, ongoing coordination of care and involvement of rehabilitation physicians. A facility that fails to meet the 60% threshold, or other criteria to be classified as an IRF, will be paid under either the acute care hospital inpatient or outpatient PPS, which generally provide for lower payment amounts. As of December 31, 2019, we had two rehabilitation hospitals and 63 hospital rehabilitation units. Psychiatric Inpatient hospital services furnished in psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units of general, acute care hospitals and critical access hospitals are reimbursed on a PPS basis. The inpatient psychiatric facility ( IPF ) PPS is based upon a per diem payment, with adjustments to account for certain patient and facility characteristics. The IPF PPS contains an outlier policy for extraordinarily costly cases and an adjustment to a facility s base payment if it maintains a full-service emergency department. CMS has established the IPF PPS payment rate in a manner intended to be budget neutral. Each federal fiscal year, IPF payment rates are updated using a market basket index, which is reduced by a productivity adjustment based on the BLS 10-year moving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity. For federal fiscal year 2019, CMS increased IPF payment rates by an estimated 1.1%, which reflects a 2.9% IPF market basket update with a negative 0.8 percentage point productivity adjustment, a negative 0.75 percentage point adjustment as required by the Affordable Care Act, and other payment adjustments. For federal fiscal year 2020, CMS increased IPF payment 8 Table of Contents rates by an estimated 1.75%, which reflects a 2.9% IPF market basket increase with a negative 0.4 percentage point productivity adjustment and a 0.75 percentage point reduction required by statute, among other payment adjustments. Inpatient psychiatric facilities are required to report quality measures to CMS to avoid receiving a 2.0 percentage point reduction to the market basket update. As of December 31, 2019, we had three psychiatric hospitals and 55 hospital psychiatric units. Ambulatory Surgery Centers CMS reimburses ASCs using a predetermined fee schedule. Reimbursements for ASC overhead costs are limited to no more than the overhead costs paid to hospital outpatient departments under the Medicare hospital outpatient PPS for the same procedure. If CMS determines that a procedure is commonly performed in a physician s office, the ASC reimbursement for that procedure is limited to the reimbursement allowable under the Physician Fee Schedule, with limited exceptions. All surgical procedures, other than those that pose a significant safety risk or generally require an overnight stay, are payable as ASC procedures. From time to time, CMS expands the services that may be performed in ASCs, which may result in more Medicare procedures that historically have been performed in hospitals being moved to ASCs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. Also, more Medicare procedures that historically have been performed in ASCs may be moved to physicians offices. Some commercial third-party payers have adopted similar policies. Historically, CMS updated reimbursement rates for ASCs based on changes to the consumer price index. However, for calendar years 2019 through 2023, CMS updates to ASC reimbursement rates will be based on the hospital market basket index, partly to promote site-neutrality between hospitals and ASCs. For each federal fiscal year, the ASC payment system update is reduced by a productivity adjustment based on the BLS 10-year moving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity. For calendar year 2019, CMS increased ASC payment rates by 2.1%, which reflected a market basket increase of 2.9%, less a 0.8 percentage point productivity adjustment. For calendar year 2020, CMS increased ASC payment rates by 2.6%, which reflects a market basket increase of 3.0% and a negative 0.4 percentage point productivity adjustment. In addition, CMS has established a quality reporting program for ASCs under which ASCs that fail to report on specified quality measures receive a 2.0 percentage point reduction to the consumer price index update. Physician Services Physician services are reimbursed under the Physician Fee Schedule system, under which CMS has assigned a national relative value unit ( RVU ) to most medical procedures and services that reflects the various resources required by a physician to provide the services, relative to all other services. Each RVU is calculated based on a combination of work required in terms of time and intensity of effort for the service, practice expense (overhead) attributable to the service and malpractice insurance expense attributable to the service. These three elements are each modified by a geographic adjustment factor to account for local practice costs and are then aggregated. While RVUs for various services may change in a given year, any alterations are required by statute to be 