Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 36 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 60 Item 2. Properties 61 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 61 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 61 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 62 Item 6. [Reserved] 63 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 64 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 86 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 86 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86 Item 9B. Other Information 88 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 88 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 88 Item 11. Executive Compensation 89 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 89 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 89 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 90 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 91 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 105 Signatures 106 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General HCA Healthcare, Inc. is one of the leading health care services companies in the United States. At December 31, 2021, we operated 182 hospitals, comprised of 175 general, acute care hospitals; five psychiatric hospitals; and two rehabilitation hospitals. In addition, we operated 125 freestanding surgery centers and 21 freestanding endoscopy centers. Our facilities are located in 20 states and England. The terms Company, HCA, we, our or us, as used herein and unless otherwise stated or indicated by context, refer to HCA Healthcare, Inc. and its affiliates. The term affiliates means direct and indirect subsidiaries of HCA Healthcare, Inc. and partnerships and joint ventures in which such subsidiaries are partners. The terms facilities or hospitals refer to entities owned and operated by affiliates of HCA, and the term employees refers to employees of affiliates of HCA. Our primary objective is to provide a comprehensive array of quality health care services in the most cost-effective manner possible. Our general, acute care hospitals typically provide a full range of services to accommodate such medical specialties as internal medicine, general surgery, cardiology, oncology, neurosurgery, orthopedics and obstetrics, as well as diagnostic and emergency services. Outpatient and ancillary health care services are provided by our general, acute care hospitals, freestanding surgery centers, freestanding emergency care facilities, urgent care facilities, walk-in clinics, diagnostic centers and rehabilitation facilities. Our psychiatric hospitals provide a full range of mental health care services through inpatient, partial hospitalization and outpatient settings. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol HCA ). Through our predecessors, we commenced operations in 1968. HCA Healthcare, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in October 2010. Our principal executive offices are located at One Park Plaza, Nashville, Tennessee 37203, and our telephone number is (615) 344-9551. Available Information We file certain reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements and other information we file. Our website address is www.hcahealthcare.com. Please note that our website address is provided throughout this report as an inactive textual reference only. We make available free of charge, through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. Our Code of Conduct is available free of charge upon request to our Investor Relations Department, HCA Healthcare, Inc., One Park Plaza, Nashville, Tennessee 37203, and is also available on the Ethics and Compliance and Corporate Governance portion of our website at www.hcahealthcare.com. 3 Table of Contents Business Strategy We are committed to providing the communities we serve with high quality, cost-effective health care while growing our business and creating long-term value for our stockholders. We strive to be the provider system of choice in the communities we serve and to support our operations with unique enterprise capabilities and best-in-class economies of scale. To achieve these objectives, we align our efforts around the following growth agenda: grow our presence in existing markets; achieve industry-leading performance in clinical, operational and satisfaction measures; recruit and employ physicians to meet the need for high quality health services; continue to leverage our scale and market positions to grow the Company; and pursue a disciplined development strategy. Health Care Facilities We currently own, manage or operate hospitals, freestanding surgery centers, freestanding emergency care facilities, urgent care facilities, walk-in clinics, diagnostic and imaging centers, radiation and oncology therapy centers, comprehensive rehabilitation and physical therapy centers, physician practices, home health, hospice, outpatient physical therapy home and community-based services providers, and various other facilities. At December 31, 2021, we owned and operated 175 general, acute care hospitals with 48,030 licensed beds. Most of our general, acute care hospitals provide medical and surgical services, including inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic services and emergency services. The general, acute care hospitals also provide outpatient services such as outpatient surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology and physical therapy. Each hospital has an organized medical staff and a local board of trustees or governing board, made up of members of the local community. At December 31, 2021, we operated five psychiatric hospitals with 593 licensed beds. Our psychiatric hospitals provide therapeutic programs, including child, adolescent and adult psychiatric care and adolescent and adult alcohol and drug abuse treatment and counseling. We also operate outpatient health care facilities, which include freestanding ambulatory surgery centers ( ASCs ), freestanding emergency care facilities, urgent care facilities, walk-in clinics, diagnostic and imaging centers, comprehensive rehabilitation and physical therapy centers, radiation and oncology therapy centers, physician practices and various other facilities. These outpatient services are an integral component of our strategy to develop comprehensive health care networks in select communities. Most of our ASCs are operated through partnerships or limited liability companies, with majority ownership of each partnership or limited liability company typically held by a general partner or member that is an affiliate of HCA. Certain of our affiliates provide a variety of management services to our health care facilities, including patient safety programs, ethics and compliance programs, national supply contracts, equipment purchasing and leasing contracts, accounting, financial and clinical systems, governmental reimbursement assistance, construction planning and coordination, information technology systems and solutions, legal counsel, human resources services and internal audit services. COVID-19 Pandemic On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization designated COVID-19 as a global pandemic. Patient volumes and the related revenues for most of our services were significantly impacted during the latter portion of the first quarter and the first half of the second quarter of 2020 and have continued to be impacted as various policies were implemented by federal, state and local governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 4 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2021, our patient volumes improved as the effects of the pandemic moderated and certain pandemic-related restrictions and policies were eased. For the remainder of 2021, our patient volumes exhibited consistent growth over the prior year, with the exception of inpatient surgeries, and included a resurgence of COVID-19 admissions and the re-imposition of pandemic-related restrictions in certain markets. We believe the extent of the COVID-19 pandemic s impact on our operating results and financial condition has been and will continue to be driven by many factors, most of which are beyond our control and ability to forecast. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot estimate how long or to what extent the pandemic will impact our operations. Summary Risk Factors You should carefully read and consider the risk factors set forth under Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect us. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially, adversely affected. Our business is subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties: Risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic and other potential pandemics: The COVID-19 pandemic is significantly affecting our operations and could affect our business and financial condition. Our liquidity could also be negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly if the U.S. economy remains unstable for a significant amount of time. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the CARES Act (as defined below) and other existing or future stimulus and relief legislation, if any, or the effect that such legislation and other governmental responses intended to assist providers in responding to COVID-19 may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There can be no assurance as to the total amount of financial assistance or types of assistance we will receive, that we will be able to comply with the applicable terms and conditions to retain such assistance, or that we will be able to benefit from provisions intended to increase access to resources and ease regulatory burdens for health care providers. The emergence and effects related to a potential future pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease could adversely affect our operations. Risks related to our indebtedness: Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Discontinuation, reform or replacement of LIBOR may adversely affect our borrowing costs. Risks related to human capital: Our operations may be adversely affected by competition for staffing, the shortage of experienced nurses and other health care professionals, vaccine mandates and labor union activity. We may be unable to attract, hire, and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. 5 Table of Contents Risks related to technology, data privacy and cybersecurity: A cybersecurity incident could result in the compromise of our facilities, confidential data or critical data systems. A cybersecurity incident could also give rise to potential harm to patients; remediation and other expenses; and exposure to liability under HIPAA (as defined below), consumer protection laws, common law theories or other laws. Such incidents could subject us to litigation and foreign, federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business. Our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems. Health care technology initiatives, particularly those related to patient data and interoperability, may adversely affect our operations. We may not be reimbursed for the cost of expensive, new technology. Risks related to governmental regulation and other legal matters: Our results of operations may be adversely affected by health care reform efforts, including efforts to significantly change the Affordable Care Act (as defined below). We are unable to predict what, if any, and when additional health reform measures will be adopted or implemented, and the effects and ultimate impact of any such measures are uncertain. Changes in government health care programs may adversely affect our revenues. If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. State efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations. We may incur additional tax liabilities. We have been and could become the subject of government investigations, claims and litigation. We may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities, which are costly to defend and may require us to pay significant damages if not covered by insurance. Risks related to operations, strategy, demand and competition: Our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. A deterioration in the collectability of uninsured and patient due accounts could adversely affect our results of operations. If our volume of patients with private health insurance coverage declines or we are unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with private third-party payers, including managed care plans, our revenues may be reduced. Changes to physician utilization practices and treatment methodologies, third-party payer controls designed to reduce inpatient services or surgical procedures and other factors outside our control that impact demand for medical services may reduce our revenues. We may encounter difficulty acquiring hospitals and other health care businesses and challenges integrating the operations of acquired hospitals and other health care businesses and become liable for unknown or contingent liabilities as a result of acquisitions. Our facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida and Texas, which makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, public health, environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those states. Our business and operations are subject to risks related to climate change. The industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. 6 Table of Contents Risks related to macroeconomic conditions: Our overall business results may suffer during periods of general economic weakness. We are exposed to market risk related to changes in the market values of securities and interest rates. Risks related to ownership of our common stock: There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends. Certain of our investors may continue to have influence over us. Sources of Revenue Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and ancillary services ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or payment rates for such services. Reimbursement rates for inpatient and outpatient services vary significantly depending on the type of third-party payer, the type of service (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or psychiatric) and the geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control. We receive payments for patient services from the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid or similar programs, managed care plans (including plans offered through the American Health Benefit Exchanges ( Exchanges )), private insurers and directly from patients. Our revenues by primary third-party payer classification and other (including uninsured patients) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 are summarized in the following table (dollars in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2021 Ratio 2020 Ratio 2019 Ratio Medicare $ 10,447 17.8 % $ 10,420 20.2 % $ 10,798 21.0 % Managed Medicare 8,424 14.3 6,997 13.6 6,452 12.6 Medicaid 2,290 3.9 1,965 3.8 1,572 3.1 Managed Medicaid 3,124 5.3 2,621 5.1 2,450 4.8 Managed care and other insurers 30,295 51.6 26,535 51.5 26,544 51.6 International (managed care and other insurers) 1,336 2.3 1,120 2.2 1,162 2.3 Other 2,836 4.8 1,875 3.6 2,358 4.6 Revenues $ 58,752 100.0 % $ 51,533 100.0 % $ 51,336 100.0 % Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons age 65 and over, some disabled persons, persons with end-stage renal disease and persons with Lou Gehrig s Disease. Medicaid is a federal-state program, administered by the states, that provides hospital and medical benefits to qualifying low-income individuals. All of our general, acute care hospitals located in the United States are eligible to participate in Medicare and Medicaid programs. Amounts received under Medicare and Medicaid programs are generally significantly less than established hospital gross charges for the services provided. Our hospitals generally offer discounts from established charges to certain group purchasers of health care services, including private health insurers, employers, health maintenance organizations ( HMOs ), preferred provider organizations ( PPOs ) and other managed care plans, including health plans offered through the Exchanges. These discount programs generally limit our ability to increase revenues in response to increasing costs. See Item 1, Business Competition. For services under Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs, PPOs and other managed care plans, patients are generally responsible for any exclusions, deductibles or coinsurance features of their coverage. The amounts of such exclusions, deductibles and coinsurance continue to increase. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from government health care programs or other 7 Table of Contents third-party payers. We provide discounts to uninsured patients who do not qualify for Medicaid or for financial relief under our charity care policy. We may attempt to provide assistance to uninsured patients to help determine whether they may qualify for Medicaid, other federal or state assistance or charity care under our charity care policy. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. Medicare In addition to the reimbursement reductions and adjustments discussed below, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the BCA ) requires automatic spending reductions to reduce the federal deficit, including Medicare spending reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year, with a uniform percentage reduction across all Medicare programs. In 2013, the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services ( CMS ) began imposing a 2% reduction on Medicare payments. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security ( CARES ) Act and related legislation temporarily suspended these reductions through March 31, 2022 and reduced the sequestration adjustment from 2% to 1% from April 1 through June 30, 2022. The full 2% reduction will resume on July 1, 2022. The BCA sequestration has been extended through 2030, with the reductions for 2030 set to increase to 2.25% for the first six months and to 3% for the second six months. In addition, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ( ARPA ) increased the federal budget deficit in a manner that triggers an additional sequestration mandated under the Pay As You Go Act of 2010 ( PAYGO Act ). As a result, a further payment reduction of up to 4% was required to take effect in January 2022. However, Congress has delayed implementation of this payment reduction until 2023. Inpatient Acute Care Under the Medicare program, we receive reimbursement under a prospective payment system ( PPS ) for general, acute care hospital inpatient services. Under the hospital inpatient PPS, fixed payment amounts per inpatient discharge are established based on the patient s assigned Medicare severity diagnosis-related group ( MS-DRG ). MS-DRGs classify treatments for illnesses according to the estimated intensity of hospital resources necessary to furnish care for each principal diagnosis. MS-DRG weights represent the average resources for a given MS-DRG relative to the average resources for all MS-DRGs. MS-DRG payments are adjusted for area wage differentials. Hospitals, other than those defined as new, receive PPS reimbursement for inpatient capital costs based on MS-DRG weights multiplied by a geographically adjusted federal rate. When the cost to treat certain patients falls well outside the normal distribution, providers typically receive additional outlier payments. These payments are financed by offsetting reductions in the inpatient PPS rates. A high-cost outlier threshold is set annually at a level that will result in estimated outlier payments equaling 5.1% of total inpatient PPS payments for the fiscal year. MS-DRG rates are updated, and MS-DRG weights are recalibrated, using cost-relative weights each federal fiscal year (which begins October 1). The index used to update the MS-DRG rates (the market basket ) gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals and entities outside the health care industry in purchasing goods and services. Each federal fiscal year, the annual market basket update is reduced by a productivity adjustment based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) 10-year moving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity. A decrease in payment rates or an increase in rates that is below the increase in our costs may adversely affect our results of operations. For federal fiscal year 2021, CMS increased the MS-DRG rate by approximately 2.9%. This increase reflected a market basket update of 2.4%, increased by a positive 0.5 percentage point adjustment in accordance with the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 ( MACRA ). For federal fiscal year 2022, CMS increased the MS-DRG rate by approximately 2.5%. This increase reflects a market basket update of 2.7%, adjusted by a negative 0.7 percentage point productivity adjustment and a positive 0.5 percentage point adjustment required by MACRA. Additional adjustments may apply, depending on patient-specific or hospital-specific factors. For example, the two midnight rule limits payments to hospitals when services to Medicare 8 Table of Contents beneficiaries are payable as inpatient services. In addition, under the post-acute care transfer policy, Medicare reimbursement rates may be reduced when an inpatient hospital discharges a patient in a specified MS-DRG to certain post-acute care settings. CMS has implemented and is implementing a number of programs and requirements intended to transform Medicare from a passive payer to an active purchaser of quality goods and services. For example, hospitals that do not successfully participate in the Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting Program are subject to a 25% reduction of the market basket update. Hospitals that do not demonstrate meaningful use of electronic health records ( EHRs ) are subject to a 75% reduction of the market basket update. Medicare does not allow an inpatient hospital discharge to be assigned to a higher paying MS-DRG if certain designated hospital acquired conditions ( HACs ) were not present on admission and the identified HAC is the only condition resulting in the assignment of the higher paying MS-DRG. In this situation, the case is paid as though the secondary diagnosis was not present. There are currently 14 categories of conditions on the list of HACs. In addition, the 25% of hospitals with the worst risk-adjusted HAC scores in the designated performance period receive a 1% reduction in their inpatient PPS Medicare payments. CMS has also established three National Coverage Determinations that prohibit Medicare reimbursement for erroneous surgical procedures performed on an inpatient or outpatient basis. Under the Hospital Readmission Reduction Program ( HRRP ), payments to hospitals may also be reduced based on readmission rates. Each federal fiscal year, inpatient payments are reduced if a hospital experiences excess readmissions within the 30-day time period from the date of discharge for conditions designated by CMS. For federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years, CMS has designated six conditions or procedures, including heart attack, pneumonia and total hip arthroplasty. Hospitals with what CMS defines as excess readmissions for these conditions or procedures receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions or procedures subject to the excess readmission standard. The amount by which payments are reduced is determined by assessing a hospital s performance relative to hospitals with similar proportions of dual eligible patients, subject to a cap established by CMS. The reduction in payments to hospitals with excess readmissions can be up to 3% of a hospital s base payments. Each hospital s performance is publicly reported by CMS. In addition, under the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing ( HVBP ) Program, CMS reduces the inpatient PPS payment amount for all discharges by 2.0%. The total amount collected from these reductions is pooled, and the entire amount collected is redistributed as incentive payments to reward hospitals that meet certain quality performance standards established by CMS. CMS scores each hospital based on achievement (relative to other hospitals) and improvement ranges (relative to the hospital s own past performance) for each applicable performance standard. Hospitals that meet or exceed the quality performance standards receive greater reimbursement under the value-based purchasing program than they would have otherwise. Hospitals that do not achieve the necessary quality performance receive reduced Medicare inpatient hospital payments. Hospitals are scored on a number of individual measures that are categorized into four domains: clinical outcomes; efficiency and cost reduction; safety; and person and community engagement. For the duration of the national public health emergency ( PHE ) declared as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is ongoing, CMS has implemented a measure suppression policy across various hospital quality measurement and value-based purchasing programs. The policy is intended to ensure that these programs neither reward nor penalize hospitals based on circumstances caused by the PHE that the measures were not designed to accommodate. For example, CMS is modifying certain readmissions measures within the HRRP to exclude COVID-19 diagnosed patients. Under the HVBP Program in federal fiscal year 2022, as a result of the measure suppression policy, hospitals will receive a net neutral payment adjustment for each discharge that is equal to the 2% withheld under the program. In addition, facilities that experience extraordinary circumstances beyond their control that prevent satisfaction of program reporting requirements may request an exception from CMS. 9 Table of Contents Outpatient CMS reimburses hospital outpatient services (and certain Medicare Part B services furnished to hospital inpatients who have no Part A coverage) on a PPS basis. Hospital outpatient services paid under PPS are classified into groups called ambulatory payment classifications ( APCs ). Services for each APC are similar clinically and in terms of the resources they require. A payment rate is established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, a hospital may be paid for more than one APC for a patient visit. The APC payment rates are updated for each calendar year. Each calendar year, the annual market basket update is further reduced by a productivity adjustment based on the BLS 10-year moving average of changes in specified economy-wide productivity. For calendar year 2021, CMS increased APC payment rates by an estimated 2.4%. This increase reflected a market basket increase of 2.4%. For calendar year 2022, CMS increased payment rates under the outpatient PPS by an estimated 2.0%. This increase reflects a market basket increase of 2.7% with a negative 0.7 percentage point productivity adjustment. CMS requires hospitals to submit quality data relating to outpatient care to avoid receiving a 2.0 percentage point reduction in the annual payment update under the outpatient PPS. Certain items and services furnished by off-campus provider-based departments, subject to certain exceptions, are not covered as outpatient department services under the outpatient PPS, but are reimbursed under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule ( Physician Fee Schedule ), subject to adjustments as specified by CM