Item 1. Business . 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors . 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments . 22 Item 1C. Cybersecurity . 22 Item 2. Properties . 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings . 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures . 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . 26 Item 6. Reserved . 27 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 27 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk . 34 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 35 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures . 66 Item 9B. Other Information . 68 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections . 68 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation . 69 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters . 69 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence . 69 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services . 69 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules . 70 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary . 74 SIGNATURES 75 Fiscal 2023 Form 10-K i Table of Contents COMMONLY USED OR DEFINED TERMS Term Definition ASU Accounting Standards Update BODFS Buy Online, Deliver From Store BOPIS Buy Online, Pickup In Store BORIS Buy Online, Return In Store BOSS Buy Online, Ship to Store CDP The not-for-profit organization formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project Comparable sales As defined in the Results of Operations section of MD A DIFM Do-It-For-Me DIY Do-It-Yourself EH S Environmental, Health, and Safety EPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ESG Environmental, social, and governance ESPP Employee Stock Purchase Plan Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board fiscal 2020 Fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2021 Fiscal year ended January 30, 2022 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2022 Fiscal year ended January 29, 2023 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2023 Fiscal year ended January 28, 2024 (includes 52 weeks) fiscal 2024 Fiscal year ending February 2, 2025 (includes 53 weeks) GAAP U.S. generally accepted accounting principles IRS Internal Revenue Service LIBOR London interbank offered rate MD A Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MRO Maintenance, repair, and operations NOPAT Net operating profit after tax NYSE New York Stock Exchange PLCC Private label credit card Pro Professional customer Restoration Plans Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan and HD Supply Restoration Plan ROIC Return on invested capital SEC Securities and Exchange Commission Securities Act Securities Act of 1933, as amended SG A Selling, general, and administrative expenses SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate Fiscal 2023 Form 10-K ii Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained herein, as well as in other filings we make with the SEC and other written and oral information we release, regarding our performance or other events or developments in the future constitute forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our products and services, including as a result of macroeconomic conditions; net sales growth; comparable sales; the effects of competition; our brand and reputation; implementation of interconnected retail, store, supply chain and technology initiatives; inventory and in-stock positions; the state of the economy; the state of the housing and home improvement markets; the state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans, and consumer credit; the impact of tariffs; issues related to the payment methods we accept; demand for credit offerings; management of relationships with our associates, potential associates, suppliers and service providers; cost and availability of labor; costs of fuel and other energy sources; events that could disrupt our business, supply chain, technology infrastructure, or demand for our products and services, such as international trade disputes, natural disasters, climate change, public health issues, cybersecurity events, geopolitical conflicts, and military conflicts or acts of war; our ability to maintain a safe and secure store environment; our ability to address expectations regarding environmental, social and governance matters and meet related goals; continuation or suspension of share repurchases; net earnings performance; earnings per share; future dividends; capital allocation and expenditures; liquidity; return on invested capital; expense leverage; changes in interest rates; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; commodity or other price inflation and deflation; our ability to issue debt on terms and at rates acceptable to us; the impact and expected outcome of investigations, inquiries, claims, and litigation, including compliance with related settlements; the challenges of operating in international markets; the adequacy of insurance coverage; the effect of accounting charges; the effect of adopting certain accounting standards; the impact of legal and regulatory changes, including changes to tax laws and regulations; store openings and closures; financial outlook; and the impact of acquired companies on our organization and the ability to recognize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions. Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control, dependent on the actions of third parties, or currently unknown to us as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our expectations and projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in Part I,