Item 1. Business Item 1. BUSINESS (Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated) GENERAL The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, The Hartford , the Company , we , or our ) is a holding company for a group of subsidiaries that provide property and casualty ("P C") insurance, group benefits insurance and services, and mutual funds and exchange-traded products to individual and business customers in the United States as well as in the United Kingdom and other international locations. The Hartford is headquartered in Connecticut and its oldest subsidiary, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, dates back to 1810. At December 31, 2021, total assets and total stockholders equity of The Hartford were $76.6 billion and $17.8 billion, respectively. ORGANIZATION The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to individuals and businesses and is considered a leading property and casualty and employee group benefits insurer. The Hartford Stag logo is one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry. As a holding company, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and has no significant business operations of its own. The holding company relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations, pay dividends and repurchase common stock. Information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) Capital Resources and Liquidity. PURPOSE and STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The Hartford s mission is to provide people with the support and protection they need to pursue their unique ambitions, seize opportunity, and prevail through unexpected challenge. Our strategy to maximize value creation for all stakeholders focuses on advancing underwriting excellence, emphasizing digital capabilities, maximizing distribution channels, optimizing organizational efficiency, and advancing environmental, social and governance ("ESG") leadership. We endeavor to maintain and enhance our position as a market leader by leveraging our core strengths of underwriting excellence, risk management, claims, product development and distribution. We are investing in claims, analytics, data science and digital capabilities to strengthen our existing competitive advantages. An ethics, people, and performance-driven culture drives our values. We have proactive positions on ESG issues important to our sustainability, and our capacity to deliver long-term stockholder value. 6 | Table of Contents Part I - Item 1. Business 2022 Priorities As we enter 2022, our strategy remains consistent and we are focused on the following priorities across our businesses: Advancing leading underwriting capabilities across our portfolio to offer expanded products and services; Emphasizing digital, data and analytics, and data science that enhance the customer experience and improve the underwriting and claims decision making; Maximizing distribution channels and product breadth to increase market share; Optimizing organizational efficiency with a focus on continuous improvement. For information on the Company s operational transformation and cost reduction plan (called Hartford Next ), refer to The Hartford s Operations section of Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Before considering investments in new products and technology, we are on track to achieve a reduction in annual insurance operating costs and other expenses of approximately $540 in 2022 and $625 in 2023, relative to 2019; Balancing capital deployment for organic growth, investments in the business, and return to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases; and Continuing to advance ESG leadership in order to attract and retain top talent and enhance value to stockholders. For more information on retaining and attracting talent through our diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives, refer to the Human Capital Resources section of Part 1, Item 1. Within our businesses, we will continue to pursue objectives specific to each, including: Commercial Lines Benefiting from a firm pricing environment in most property and liability lines while navigating continued pricing pressure in workers compensation by staying disciplined in our underwriting; Successfully leveraging our broader underwriting capabilities, product breadth, risk appetite and expanded access to cross-sell global specialty product lines to customers of small commercial and middle large commercial, and grow specialized verticals in middle large commercial; Accelerating use of data, digital technology and voice of customer to transform and differentiate our business; and Expanding distribution to match customers preferred access points. Personal Lines Continuing to transform our products, regain competitive momentum, and grow top-line through the continued rollout of our new automobile and homeowners product, Prevail, which is tailored to the mature market and includes digital service capabilities that provide real time transaction support; Transforming underwriting to improve member experience and reduce expense; Driving new business growth in AARP Direct through direct marketing initiatives designed to increase conversion rates; and Expanding use of telematics and investing in digital capabilities. Group Benefits Continuing to grow revenues through strong sales and persistency; Expanding absence/leave management capabilities and pursuing product innovation to meet the rapidly evolving needs of employers and employees; Continuing to grow market share of voluntary product offerings, including supplemental health coverage, as well as new state paid family and medical leave; Completing the implementation of our disability and leave management claims platform, The Hartford Ability Advantage, to enhance the overall customer experience and accommodate the Company s leave management programs; and Investing in data and analytics to enhance risk management and reinvent processes at the intersection of data, analytics, artificial intelligence and technology. Hartford Funds Driving organic growth across key distribution channels; Working with subadvisors to launch products to meet the needs of financial advisors and their clients. REPORTING SEGMENTS The Hartford conducts business principally in five reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds, as well as a Corporate category. The Company includes in the Corporate category reserves for run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities, restructuring costs, capital raising activities (including equity financing, debt financing and related interest expense), transaction expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, certain M A costs, purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments. Corporate also includes investment management fees and expenses related to managing third party business, including management of a portion of the invested assets of Talcott Resolution Life, Inc. and its subsidiaries as well as certain affiliates. Talcott Resolution Life, Inc. is the holding company of the life and annuity business that we sold in May 2018. In addition, up until June 30, 2021, Corporate included a 9.7% ownership interest in Hopmeadow Holdings LP, the legal entity that acquired Talcott Resolution in May 2018 7 | Table of Contents Part I - Item 1. Business (Hopmeadow Holdings, LP, Talcott Resolution Life Inc., and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as Talcott Resolution ). 2021 Revenues of $22,390 by Segment [1]Includes Revenue of $88 for Property Casualty Other Operations and $137 for Corporate. The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion of the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 4 - Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. | COMMERCIAL LINES 2021 Earned Premiums of $9,541 by Line of Business 2021 Earned Premiums of $9,541 by Product 8 | Table of Contents Part I - Item 1. Business Principal Products and Services Automobile Covers damage to a business's fleet of vehicles due to collision or other perils (automobile physical damage). In addition to first party automobile physical damage, commercial automobile covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or under-insured motorists. Property Covers the building a business owns or leases as well as its personal property, including tools and equipment, inventory, and furniture. A commercial property insurance policy covers losses resulting from fire, wind, hail, earthquake, theft and other covered perils, including coverage for assets such as accounts receivable and valuable papers and records. Commercial property may include specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery. General Liability Covers a business in the event it is sued for causing harm to a person and/or damage to property. General liability insurance covers third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on the insured s premises or arising out of their operations. General liability insurance may also cover losses arising from product liability and provides replacement of lost income due to an event that interrupts business operations. Marine Encompasses various ocean and inland marine coverages including cargo, craft, hull, specie, transport and liability, among others. Package Business Covers both property and general liability damages. Workers' Compensation Covers employers for losses incurred due to employees sustaining an injury, illness or disability in connection with their work. Benefits paid under workers compensation policies may include reimbursement of medical care costs, replacement income, compensation for permanent injuries and benefits to survivors. Workers compensation is provided under both guaranteed cost policies (coverage for a fixed premium) and loss sensitive policies where premiums are adjustable based on the loss experience of the employer. Professional Liability Covers liability arising from directors and officers acting in their official capacity and liability for errors and omissions committed by professionals and others. Coverage may also provide employment practices insurance relating to allegations of wrongful termination and discrimination. Bond Encompasses fidelity and surety insurance, including commercial surety, contract surety and fidelity bonds. Commercial surety includes bonds that insure non-performance by contractors, license and permit bonds to help meet government-mandated requirements and probate and judicial bonds for fiduciaries and civil court proceedings. Contract surety bonds may include payment and performance bonds for contractors. Fidelity bonds may include ERISA bonds related to the handling of retirement plan assets and bonds protecting against employee theft or fraud. The Company also provides credit and political risk insurance offered to clients with global operations. Assumed Reinsurance Includes assumed reinsurance of property, liability, surety, credit and political, marine and agriculture risks throughout the world but principally in Europe and the Americas. Business principally provides cover on broad books of business (i.e. treaty), as opposed to individual risks (i.e. facultative). Through its three lines of business of small commercial, middle large commercial, and global specialty, Commercial Lines offers its products and services to businesses in the United States ("U.S.") and internationally. Commercial Lines generally consists of products written for small businesses and middle market companies as well as national and multi-national accounts, largely distributed through retail agents and brokers, wholesale agents and global and specialty reinsurance brokers. The majority of Commercial Lines written premium is generated by small commercial and middle market lines, which provide coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder s individual risk characteristics. Small commercial and middle market lines within middle large commercial are generally referred to as standard commercial lines. Small commercial provides coverages for small businesses, which the Company generally considers to be businesses with an annual payroll under $20, revenues under $50 and property values less than $20 per location. Primary coverages provided include workers' compensation, property, general liability and commercial automobile. Within small commercial, both property and general liability coverages are offered under a single package policy, marketed under the Spectrum name. Small commercial also provides excess and surplus lines coverage to small businesses including umbrella, general liability, property and other coverages. Middle large commercial business provides insurance coverages to medium-sized and national accounts businesses, which are companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition. In addition to offering standard commercial lines products, including workers' compensation, property, general liability and commercial automobile products, middle large commercial includes program business which provides tailored programs, primarily to customers with common risk characteristics. On national accounts, a significant portion of the business is written through large deductible programs. Other programs written within middle large commercial are retrospectively-rated where the ultimate premium collected from the insured is adjusted based on how incurred losses for the policy year develop over time, subject to a minimum and maximum premium. Also within middle large commercial, the Company writes captive programs business, which provides tailored programs to those seeking a loss sensitive solution where premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Lines of business written by small commercial and middle large commercial are subject to rate regulation and written pricing increases or decreases partly in response to loss cost trends. Workers compensation rates are based on loss experience and are informed by data submitted through the National Council on Compensation Insurance ("NCCI"). Workers compensation rates have been under downward pressure for the industry due to favorable loss cost trends in 9 | Table of Contents Part I - Item 1. Business recent years, including due to lower claim frequency that occurred during the pandemic. Global specialty provides a variety of customized insurance products, including property, liability, marine, professional liability, and bond. The vast majority of the business written by our Navigators Group insurance subsidiaries is reported in the global specialty business unit. Marketing and Distribution Commercial Lines provides insurance products and services through the Company s regional offices, branches and sales and policyholder service centers throughout the United States and, to a lesser extent, overseas, principally in the United Kingdom. The products are marketed and distributed using independent retail agents and brokers, wholesale agents and global and specialty reinsurance brokers, with business also sold direct-to-consumer. In addition, the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies in the United States and to members of affinity organizations. As the sole corporate member of Lloyd's Syndicate 1221 ("Lloyd's Syndicate"), the Company has the exclusive right to underwrite business up to an approved level of premium in the Lloyd s market. In the United States, independent agents, brokers and wholesalers are consolidating and this trend is expected to continue. This will likely result in a larger proportion of written premium being concentrated among fewer agents, brokers and wholesalers. These distribution partners are leveraging data and analytics for bargaining power. Competition Small Commercial In small commercial, The Hartford competes against large national carriers, regional carriers and direct writers. Competitors include stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market remains highly competitive and fragmented as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price, enhanced service and leading technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford are continually advancing their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents and customers through the use of technology, analytics and other capabilities that improve the process of evaluating a risk, quoting new business and servicing customers. The Company also continuously enhances digital capabilities as customers and distributors demand more access and convenience, and expands product and underwriting capabilities to accommodate both larger accounts and a broader risk appetite. Existing competitors and new entrants, including start-up and non-traditional carriers, are actively looking to expand sales of business insurance products to small businesses through increasing their underwriting appetite, deepening their relationships with distribution partners, and through on-line and direct-to-consumer marketing. Carriers that can quote business in an automated way have a competitive advantage by shortening the time from quoting to issuance. Through its ICON quoting tool, The Hartford quotes over 70% of its Spectrum package business and workers compensation new business policies without human intervention. Middle Large Commercial Middle large commercial business is considered high touch and involves individual underwriting and pricing decisions. Competition in this market includes stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. In addition, some larger brokers are now becoming competitors through acquisition of managing general agents or managing general underwriters. Carriers in this marketplace seek to differentiate their product offerings, including by leveraging their umbrella and excess liability underwriting capacity to sell other lines of business. The pricing of middle market and national accounts is prone to significant volatility over time due to changes in individual account characteristics and exposure, as well as legislative and macro-economic forces. National and regional carriers participate in the middle large commercial insurance sector, resulting in a competitive environment where pricing and policy terms are critical to securing new business and retaining existing accounts. Within this competitive environment, The Hartford is working to deepen its product and underwriting capabilities, leverage its sales and underwriting talent and expand its use of data analytics and third party data to make risk selection and pricing decisions. In product development and related areas such as claims and risk engineering, the Company has extended its capabilities in industry verticals, such as energy, construction, technology and life sciences. Through business partners, the Company offers business insurance coverages to exporters and other U.S. companies with a physical presence overseas. The Hartford s middle large commercial business will leverage the investments in product, underwriting, and technology to better match price to individual risk as the firm pursues responsible growth strategies to deliver target returns. For specialty casualty businesses within middle large commercial, pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. As a means to mitigate the cost of insurance on larger accounts, more insureds may opt for loss-sensitive products, including retrospectively rated contracts, in lieu of guaranteed cost policies. Global Specialty Global specialty competes against multi-national insurance and reinsurance companies, writing marine, property, excess casualty, professional liability, bond and assumed reinsurance. Global specialty writes many surplus lines of business which are lines of business not written through standard products licensed or admitted in a state. Since 2010, surplus lines has accounted for an increasing share of total commercial lines industry direct written premiums. Customers served by the global specialty marketplace expect tailored policy language for their unique risks and, increasingly, are looking for a single insurance carrier to meet all their coverage needs. The Company has been successful in cross-selling global specialty product lines acquired through the Navigators Insurance Group acquisition to customers of small commercial and of middle large commercial and seeks to expand cross-sell opportunities in the future. The Hartford competes on the basis of its underwriting capabilities where it uses data and actuarial insights to enhance risk selection. The Company seeks to drive greater efficiency, shorten the quoting process and improve the customer s experience through 10 | Table of Contents Part I - Item 1. Business expanded use of digital capabilities. While global specialty benefitted from firm market conditions in 2020 and 2021, more capital has entered the specialty lines marketplace, increasing competition and putting downward pressure on rates. Lloyd's Syndicate and London market business have been under financial stress in recent years due to a perceived lack of adequate pricing and an excessive focus on growth at the expense of underwriting discipline in those markets, combined with a significant increase in the level of catastrophe activity. As such, syndicates and London market carriers, including The Hartford, have taken pricing and underwriting actions to improve profitability. Lloyd's, which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority in the U.K., has been implementing changes to improve performance of the syndicates including a more rigorous approach to the approval of syndicate business plans. Additionally, Lloyd s has also introduced recent changes which require that members limit the amount of tier 2 capital (e.g. letters of credit) that can be used to meet syndicate solvency capital requirements. For further discussion, see Part II, Item 7, MD A - Capital Resources and Liquidity. | PERSONAL LINES 2021 Earned Premiums of $2,954 by Line of Business 2021 Earned Premiums of $2,954 by Product Principal Products and Services Automobile Covers damage to an individual insured s own vehicle due to collision or other perils and is referred to as automobile physical damage. In addition to first party automobile physical damage, automobile insurance covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or underinsured motorists. Also, under no-fault laws, policies written in some states provide first party personal injury protection. Some of the Company s personal automobile insurance policies also offer personal umbrella liability coverage for an additional premium. Homeowners Insures against losses to residences and contents from fire, wind and other perils. Homeowners insurance includes owned dwellings, rental properties and coverage for tenants. The policies may provide other coverages, including loss related to recreation vehicles or watercraft, identity theft and personal items such as jewelry. Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the United States, mostly through a program designed exclusively for members of AARP ( AARP Program ). The Hartford's automobile and homeowners products provide coverage options and pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, they represent a significant portion of the total Personal Lines' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of $2.7 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The AARP relationship provides The Company with a competitive advantage to capitalize on the continued growth of the over age-50 population. During 2021, the Company began introducing its new product, Prevail, which is being rolled out for new business on a state-by-state basis through 2022 and into 2023 and was in seven states as of December, 2021. Prevail is tailored to the mature market and includes digital service capabilities that provide real time transaction support. Among other things, overall rate levels, price segmentation, rating factors and underwriting procedures 11 | Table of Contents Part I - Item 1. Business are being updated through the introduction of Prevail. Personal Lines works with carrier partners to provide risk protection options for AARP members with needs beyond the company s current product offering. Marketing and Distribution Personal Lines reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels, including direct-to-consumer and independent agents. The direct-to-consumer channel continues to represent a larger share of the automobile insurance market, accounting for more than one-third of premiums. In direct-to-consumer, Personal Lines markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail, digital marketing, television as well as digital and print advertising. Through the agency channel, Personal Lines provides products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market, primarily serving mature, preferred consumers. These independent agents are not employees of the Company. Personal Lines has made significant investments in offering direct and agency-based customers the opportunity to interact with the company on-line, including via mobile devices. In addition, its technology platform for telephone sales centers enables sales representatives to provide an enhanced experience for direct-to-consumer customers, positioning the Company to offer unique capabilities to AARP s member base. Most of Personal Lines' sales are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place through December 31, 2032, to market automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to AARP's approximately 37 million members, primarily direct but also through independent agents. This relationship with AARP, which has been in place since 1984, provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage given the increase in the population of those over age 50 and the strength of the AARP brand. New business premium growth partly depends on the rate that consumers shop for insurance and while shopping rates have generally rebounded since the depths of the pandemic, they have rebounded more slowly in the 50-plus age segment. Prior to May 2021, in most states, new business automobile and home policies were issued to AARP members with a lifetime continuation agreement endorsement, providing that the policies will be renewed as long as certain terms are met, such as timely payment of premium and maintaining a driver s license in good standing. However, beginning in May 2021, Personal Lines no longer offers the lifetime continuation agreement to new business home and automobile policies. The endorsement will remain on renewal policies with original new business effective dates prior to May 2021. In addition to selling to AARP members, Personal Lines offers its automobile and homeowners products to non-AARP customers, primarily through the independent agent channel within select underwriting markets where we believe we have a competitive advantage. Personal Lines leverages its agency channel to target AARP members and other customer segments that value the advice of an independent agent and recognize the differentiated experience the Company provides. In particular, the Company has taken action to distinguish its brand and improve profitability in the independent agent channel with fewer and more highly partnered agents. Competition The personal lines automobile and homeowners insurance markets are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete principally on the basis of price, product, service, including claims handling, the insurer's ratings and brand recognition. Companies with strong ratings, recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. Larger carriers have the advantage of economies of scale with the top ten personal lines insurers accounting for approximately 70% of market share. In recent years, insurers have increased their advertising in the direct-to-consumer market in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. The growth of direct-to-consumer sales, including by new entrants to the marketplace, continues to outpace sales in the agency distribution channel. Insurers that distribute products principally through agency channels compete by 