Item 1. Business Item 1. BUSINESS (Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated) GENERAL The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, The Hartford , the Company , we , or our ) is a holding company for a group of subsidiaries that provide property and casualty ("P C") insurance, group benefits insurance and services, and mutual funds and exchange-traded products to individual and business customers in the United States as well as in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and other international locations. The Hartford is headquartered in Connecticut and its oldest subsidiary, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, dates back to 1810. At December 31, 2019 , total assets and total stockholders equity of The Hartford were $70.8 billion and $16.3 billion , respectively. ORGANIZATION The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to individuals and businesses and is considered a leading property and casualty and employee group benefits insurer. The Company endeavors to expand its insurance product offerings and distribution and capitalize on the strength of the Company's brand. The Hartford Stag logo is one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry. The Company is also working to increase efficiencies through investments in technology. As a holding company, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and has no significant business operations of its own. The holding company relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations, pay dividends and repurchase common stock. Information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in Part II, Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) Capital Resources and Liquidity. STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The Hartford s strategy focuses on realizing the full potential of our product capabilities and underwriting expertise, becoming an easier company to do business with, and attracting, retaining and developing the talent needed for long-term success. Many initiatives and investments in 2019 advanced our position in each strategic focus area: Closing on the acquisition of The Navigators Group, Inc. ( Navigators Group ), a global specialty insurance company. Integrating the recent Group Benefits and Navigators Group acquisitions successfully, and maximizing our combined potential by deepening our distribution relationships, capitalizing on a broader product portfolio and meeting a wider array of customer needs. Increasing the speed and ease of our interactions and business processes through data, digital technology and voice of customer, including expanded use of robotics and continued enhancements to underwriting and quoting platforms. Continuing investment in new products and business models such as Spectrum, our next-generation package offering for small businesses, which offers customers tailored coverage recommendations as well as the ability to customize their own coverage, including real-time quote pricing. We are investing to maintain market leadership in small commercial as existing competitors and new entrants increase their focus on this business. Improving employee experience. We are investing in our workforce and striving to attract, retain and develop the best talent in the industry, enhance our industry-leading position in diversity and inclusion, and sustain our ethical culture. We see the benefits of this commitment in our sustained top-decile employee engagement scores. 2019 Financial Results Our 2019 financial results were excellent, with strong financial results across all of our business lines. Full year 2019 income from continuing operations, net of tax, available to common stockholders was $2.1 billion, or $5.66 per diluted share and net 6 Part I - Item 1. Business income return on equity ("ROE") was 14.4%. Book value per diluted share rose 25%, to $43.85, primarily due to net income in excess of common stockholder dividends during 2019 and an increase in common stockholders' equity resulting from the impact of lower interest rates and tighter credit spreads on net unrealized investment gains within AOCI. Total revenues were $20.7 billion, up 9% since 2018 as growth in Commercial Lines, driven partly by the Navigators Group acquisition, and growth in Group Benefits was partially offset by a decline in Personal Lines. Integration of the Navigators Group business is underway and we are making progress on improving the profitability of the acquired book of business, including pricing increases and underwriting actions. We are encouraged by the product breadth and depth of underwriting talent that the Navigators Group acquisition has contributed, and we re already seeing the impact of these additions in our businesses and with our distribution partners. Our Group Benefits business has benefited from favorable incidence trends in group disability and remains well-poised to compete moving forward with a complete set of voluntary product offerings. We will also continue to address business challenges, including the need to return our Personal Lines segment to top line growth, the need for additional rate increases in challenging lines, such as in commercial auto, property, general liability and global specialty, and the continued rate pressure on workers compensation in response to continued favorable loss cost trends. In addition, the decline in reinvestment rates will continue to put pressure on investment yields and it remains to be seen whether the market will compensate with higher rate increases to increase underwriting profitability or will accept lower overall returns on equity. 2020 Priorities As we enter 2020, our strategy remains consistent and we are focused on the following priorities: Commercial Lines Benefiting from a firming pricing environment in most property and liability lines while navigating continued pricing pressure in workers compensation by staying disciplined in our underwriting; Leveraging advanced analytics and technologies as well as the combined product breadth and talent we have acquired with Navigators Group; and Continuing our journey to be a top-tier risk player in middle market. Personal Lines Continuing to upgrade our products and regain competitive momentum; and Continuing to drive new business growth in AARP Direct. Group Benefits Continuing to grow revenues through sales growth in group life and voluntary; and Substantially completing by year end the integration of the block of business we acquired from Aetna in 2017. Finally, beyond the achievement of business performance goals, The Hartford has long understood that making a sustainable and positive impact on society is an essential element of our ongoing success. Through financial contributions, volunteering and support for our company s environmental initiatives, we are committed to demonstrating our character to customers and neighbors. We have proactive positions on social, environmental and governance issues important to our sustainability, and our capacity to deliver long-term shareholder value. For more information on the Company s sustainability initiatives, please refer to our 2018 Sustainability Highlight Report available on the investor relations section of the Company s website at: https://ir.thehartford.com . 7 Part I - Item 1. Business REPORTING SEGMENTS The Hartford conducts business principally in five reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits and Hartford Funds, as well as a Corporate category. The Company includes in the Corporate category discontinued operations related to the life and annuity business sold in May 2018, reserves for run-off structured settlement and terminal funding agreement liabilities, capital raising activities (including equity financing, debt financing and related interest expense), transaction expenses incurred in connection with an acquisition, purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments. Corporate also includes investment management fees and expenses related to managing third party business, including management of the invested assets of Talcott Resolution Life, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Talcott Resolution"). Talcott Resolution is the holding company of the life and annuity business that we sold in May 2018. In addition, Corporate includes a 9.7% ownership interest in the legal entity that acquired the life and annuity business sold. 2019 Revenues of $20,740 [1] by Segment [1]Includes Revenue of $106 for Property Casualty Other Operations and $234 for Corporate. The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion of the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 4 - Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 Part I - Item 1. Business COMMERCIAL LINES 2019 Earned Premiums of $8,290 by Line of Business 2019 Earned Premiums of $8,290 by Product Principal Products and Services Automobile Covers damage to a business's fleet of vehicles due to collision or other perils (automobile physical damage). In addition to first party automobile physical damage, commercial automobile covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or under-insured motorists. Property Covers the building a business owns or leases as well as its personal property, including tools and equipment, inventory, and furniture. A commercial property insurance policy covers losses resulting from fire, wind, hail, earthquake, theft and other covered perils, including coverage for assets such as accounts receivable and valuable papers and records. Commercial property may include specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery. General Liability Covers a business in the event it is sued for causing harm to a person and/or damage to property. General liability insurance covers third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on the insured s premises or arising out of their operations. General liability insurance may also cover losses arising from product liability and provide replacement of lost income due to an event that interrupts business operations. Marine Encompasses various ocean and inland marine coverages including cargo, craft, hull, specie, transport and liability, among others. Package Business Covers both property and general liability damages. Workers' Compensation Covers employers for losses incurred due to employees sustaining an injury, illness or disability in connection with their work. Benefits paid under workers compensation policies may include reimbursement of medical care costs, replacement income, compensation for permanent injuries and benefits to survivors. Workers compensation is provided under both guaranteed cost policies (coverage for a fixed premium) and loss sensitive policies where premiums are adjustable based on the loss experience of the employer. Professional Liability Covers liability arising from directors and officers acting in their official capacity and liability for errors and omissions committed by professionals and others. Coverage may also provide employment practices insurance relating to allegations of wrongful termination and discrimination. Bond Encompasses fidelity and surety insurance, including commercial surety, contract surety and fidelity bonds. Commercial surety includes bonds that insure non-performance by contractors, license and permit bonds to help meet government-mandated requirements and probate and judicial bonds for fiduciaries and civil court proceedings. Contract surety bonds may include payment and performance bonds for contractors. Fidelity bonds may include ERISA bonds related to the handling of retirement plan assets and bonds protecting against employee theft or fraud. The Company also provides credit and political risk insurance offered to clients with global operations. Assumed Reinsurance Includes assumed reinsurance of property, liability, agriculture, marine and accident and health risks throughout the world but principally in Europe and North America. 9 Part I - Item 1. Business Through its three lines of business of small commercial, middle large commercial, and global specialty, Commercial Lines offers its products and services to businesses in the United States ("U.S.") and internationally. Commercial Lines generally consists of products written for small businesses and middle market companies as well as national and multi-national accounts, largely distributed through retail agents and brokers, wholesale agents and global and specialty reinsurance brokers. The majority of Commercial Lines written premium is generated by small commercial and middle market, which provide coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder s individual risk characteristics. Small commercial and middle market lines within middle large commercial are generally referred to as standard commercial lines. Small commercial provides coverages for small businesses, which the Company generally considers to be businesses with an annual payroll under $12, revenues under $25 and property values less than $20 per location. Within small commercial, both property and general liability coverages are offered under a single package policy, marketed under the Spectrum name. Through Maxum Specialty Insurance Group ("Maxum"), small commercial also provides excess and surplus lines coverage to small businesses including umbrella, general liability, property and other coverages. Middle large commercial business provides insurance coverages to medium-sized and national accounts businesses, which are companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition. In addition to offering standard commercial lines products, middle large commercial includes program business which provides tailored programs, primarily to customers with common risk characteristics. On national accounts, a significant portion of the business is written through large deductible programs. Other programs written within middle large commercial are retrospectively-rated where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Also within middle large commercial, the Company writes captive programs business, which provides tailored programs to those seeking a loss sensitive solution where premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Global specialty provides a variety of customized insurance products, including property, liability, marine, professional liability, bond and accident and health reinsurance. On May 23, 2019, the Company' acquired Navigators Group, a global specialty insurer. The vast majority of the business written by our Navigators Group insurance subsidiaries is reported in the global specialty business unit. Revenues and earnings of the Navigators Group business are included in operating results of the Company's Commercial Lines segment since the acquisition date. For discussion of this transaction, see Note 2 - Business Acquisitions of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Marketing and Distribution Commercial Lines provides insurance products and services through the Company s regional offices, branches and sales and policyholder service centers throughout the United States and overseas, principally in Europe. The products are marketed and distributed using independent retail agents and brokers, wholesale agents and global and specialty reinsurance brokers. As the sole corporate member of Lloyd's Syndicate 1221 ("Lloyd's Syndicate"), the Company has the exclusive right to underwrite business up to an approved level of premium in the Lloyd s of London ( Lloyd s ) market. In the United States, the independent agent and broker distribution channel is consolidating and this trend is expected to continue. This will likely result in a larger proportion of written premium being concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. In addition, the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies in the United States and to members of affinity organizations. Competition Small Commercial In small commercial, The Hartford competes against large national carriers, regional carriers and direct writers. Competitors include stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market remains highly competitive and fragmented as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and leading technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford continually advance their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents and customers through the use of technology, analytics and other capabilities that improve the process of evaluating a risk, quoting new business and servicing customers. The Company also continuously enhances digital capabilities as customers and distributors demand more access and convenience, and expands product and underwriting capabilities to accommodate both larger accounts and a broader risk appetite. Existing competitors and new entrants, including start-up and non-traditional carriers, are actively looking to expand sales of business insurance products to small businesses through increasing their underwriting appetite, deepening their relationships with distribution partners, and through on-line and direct-to-consumer marketing. Middle Large Commercial Middle large commercial business is considered high touch and involves individual underwriting and pricing decisions. Competition in this market includes stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The pricing of middle market and national accounts is prone to significant volatility over time due to changes in individual account characteristics and exposure, as well as legislative and macro-economic forces. National and regional carriers participate in the middle large commercial insurance sector, resulting in a competitive environment where pricing and policy terms are critical to securing new business and retaining existing accounts. Within this competitive environment, The Hartford is working to deepen its product and underwriting capabilities, leverage its sales and underwriting talent and expand its use of data analytics to make risk selection and pricing decisions. In product development and related areas such as claims and risk engineering, the Company is extending its capabilities in industry verticals, such as energy, construction, technology and life sciences. Through business partners, the Company offers business insurance coverages to exporters and other U.S. companies with a physical presence overseas. The Hartford s middle large commercial business will leverage the investments in product, underwriting, and technology to better match price to individual risk as the firm pursues responsible growth strategies to deliver target returns. 10 Part I - Item 1. Business For specialty casualty businesses within middle large commercial, pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. As a means to mitigate the cost of insurance on larger accounts, more insureds may opt for the loss-sensitive products offered in our national accounts segment, including retrospectively rated contracts, in lieu of guaranteed cost policies. Under a retrospectively-rated contract, the ultimate premium collected from the insured is adjusted based on how incurred losses for the policy year develop over time, subject to a minimum and maximum premium. Global Specialty Global specialty competes against multi-national insurance and reinsurance companies, writing marine, property, excess casualty, professional liability, bond and assumed reinsurance. Global specialty also includes excess and surplus lines written through Maxum, including umbrella, general liability, property and other coverages. Due to adverse loss experience over the past couple of years, particularly in ocean marine, property, excess casualty and international professional liability lines, pricing has increased across the industry in response to those loss cost trends. Nonetheless, the market continues to be highly competitive. In the bond business, favorable underwriting results in recent years has led to increased competition for market share. In professional liability, international, large and medium-sized businesses are in differing competitive environments. Large public director officers coverage, specifically excess layers, is under significant competitive price pressure. The middle market private management liability segment is in a more stable competitive and pricing environment. Lloyd's syndicate and London market business has been under financial stress in recent years due to a perceived lack of adequate premium pricing and an excessive focus on growth at the expense of underwriting discipline in those markets, combined with a significant increase in the level of catastrophe activity. As such, syndicates and London market carriers, including The Hartford, are taking pricing and underwriting actions to improve profitability. Lloyd's of London ("Lloyd's"), which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority in the U.K., has been implementing changes to improve performance of the syndicates including a more rigorous approach to the approval of syndicate business plans. Additionally Lloyd s have also introduced recent changes which require that members limit the amount of tier 2 capital (e.g. letters of credit) that can be used to meet syndicate solvency capital requirements. PERSONAL LINES 2019 Earned Premiums of $3,198 by Line of Business 2019 Earned Premiums of $3,198 by Product 11 Part I - Item 1. Business Principal Products and Services Automobile Covers damage to an individual insured s own vehicle due to collision or other perils and is referred to as automobile physical damage. In addition to first party automobile physical damage, automobile insurance covers liability for bodily injuries and property damage suffered by third parties and losses caused by uninsured or underinsured motorists. Also, under no-fault laws, policies written in some states provide first party personal injury protection. Some of the Company s personal automobile insurance policies also offer personal umbrella liability coverage for an additional premium. Homeowners Insures against losses to residences and contents from fire, wind and other perils. Homeowners insurance includes owned dwellings, rental properties and coverage for tenants. The policies may provide other coverages, including loss related to recreation vehicles or watercraft, identity theft and personal items such as jewelry. Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the United States, including a program designed exclusively for members of AARP ( AARP Program ). The Hartford's automobile and homeowners products provide coverage options and pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, they represent a significant portion of the total Personal Lines' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of $2.9 billion , $3.0 billion and $3.2 billion in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. During 2019, Personal Lines continued to refine its automobile and home product offerings marketed under the Open Road Auto and Home Advantage names. Overall rate levels, price segmentation, rating factors and underwriting procedures were examined and updated to reflect the company s actual experience with these products. Personal Lines works with carrier partners to provide risk protection options for AARP members with needs beyond the company s current product offering. Marketing and Distribution Personal Lines reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels, including direct-to-consumer and independent agents. In direct-to-consumer, Personal Lines markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail, digital marketing, television as well as digital and print advertising. Through the agency channel, Personal Lines provides products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market, primarily serving mature, preferred consumers. These independent agents are not employees of the Company. Personal Lines has made significant investments in offering direct and agency-based customers the opportunity to interact with the company online, including via mobile devices. In addition, its technology platform for telephone sales centers enables sales representatives to provide an enhanced experience for direct-to-consumer customers, positioning the Company to offer unique capabilities to AARP s member base. Most of Personal Lines' sales are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place through January 1, 2023 , to market automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to AARP's approximately 37 million members, primarily direct but also through independent agents. This relationship with AARP, which has been in place since 1984, provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage given the increase in the population of those over age 50 and the strength of the AARP brand. In most states, auto and home policies issued to AARP members include a lifetime continuation agreement endorsement, providing that the policies will be renewed as long as certain terms are met, such as timely payment of premium and maintaining a driver s license in good standing. In addition to selling to AARP members, Personal Lines offers its automobile and homeowners products to non-AARP customers, primarily through the independent agent channel within select underwriting markets where we believe we have a competitive advantage. Personal Lines leverages its agency channel to target AARP members and other customer segments that value the advice of an independent agent and recognize the differentiated experience the Company provides. In particular, the Company has taken action to distinguish its brand and improve profitability in the independent agent channel with fewer and more highly partnered agents. Competition The personal lines automobile and homeowners insurance markets are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete principally on the basis of price, product, service, including claims handling, the insurer's ratings and brand recognition. Companies with strong ratings, recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, insurers have increased their advertising in the direct-to-consumer market, in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. The growth of direct-to-consumer sales, including through new entrants to the marketplace, continues to outpace sales in the agency distribution channel. Insurers that distribute products principally through agency channels compete by offering commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier insurers are offering on-line and self-service capabilities that make it easier for agents and consumers to do business with the insurer. A large majority of agents have been using comparative rater tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools increases price competition. Insurers that are able to capitalize on their brand and reputation, differentiate their products and deliver strong customer service are more likely to be successful in this market. The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business, and carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. The Company continues to invest in capabilities to better utilize data and analytics, and thereby, refine and manage 12 Part I - Item 1. Business underwriting and pricing. Also, new automobile technology advancements, including lane departure warnings, backup cameras, automatic braking and active collision alerts, are being deployed rapidly and are expected to improve driver safety and reduce the likelihood of vehicle collisions. However, these features include expensive parts, potentially increasing average claim severity. PROPERTY CASUALTY OTHER OPERATIONS Property Casualty Other Operations includes certain property and casualty operations, managed by the Company, that have discontinued writing new business and includes substantially all of the Company's pre-1986 asbestos and environmental ("A E") exposures. For a discussion of coverages provided under policies written with exposure to A E prior to 1986, reported within the P C Other Operations segment ( Run-off A E ), ru