Item 1. BUSINESS 1 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 10 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 23 Item 2. PROPERTIES 23 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 24 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 25 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 26 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 27 Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 28 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 55 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 56 REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 56 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 59 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 60 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 62 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 63 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 105 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 105 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 106 PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 107 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 110 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 110 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 111 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 111 PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 112 SIGNATURES 117 i Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS History and Organization Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. ("HII", the "Company", "we", "us", or "our") is America s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, our Ingalls Shipbuilding segment ("Ingalls") in Mississippi and Newport News Shipbuilding segment ("Newport News") in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. Our Technical Solutions segment, established in the fourth quarter of 2016, provides a range of services to the governmental, energy, and oil and gas markets. We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the Department of Defense ("DoD"). As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. We also provide a wide range of professional services, including fleet support, mission driven innovative solutions ("MDIS"), nuclear and environmental, and oil and gas services, through our Technical Solutions segment. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, we employ approximately 42,000 people both domestically and internationally. Ingalls Through our Ingalls segment, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard, including amphibious assault ships, expeditionary warfare ships, surface combatants, and national security cutters ("NSC"). We are the sole builder of amphibious assault ships and one of two builders of surface combatants for the U.S. Navy. We are the sole builder of large multi-mission NSCs for the U.S. Coast Guard. Our Ingalls segment is located in Pascagoula, Mississippi on 800 acres along the Pascagoula River. This shipyard offers a collection of manufacturing capabilities that includes a 660-ton gantry crane and a Land Based Test Facility. Amphibious Assault Ships We construct amphibious assault ships and expeditionary warfare ships for the U.S. Navy, which include the U.S. Navy large deck amphibious assault ships ("LHA") and amphibious transport dock ships ("LPD"), respectively. The LHA is a key component of the U.S. Navy-Marine Corps requirement for 11 Expeditionary Strike Groups/Amphibious Readiness Groups, and design, construction, and modernization of LHAs are core to our Ingalls operations. In 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for USS America (LHA 6), the first in a class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized Marine assault platform. We are currently constructing Tripoli (LHA 7), scheduled for delivery in 2020, and Bougainville (LHA 8). The LPD program is a long-running production program of expeditionary warfare ships in which we have generated efficiencies through ship-over-ship learning. We delivered USS Portland (LPD 27) in 2017 and USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) in 2016, and we are currently constructing Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28) and Richard M. McCool Jr . (LPD 29), with Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28) scheduled for delivery in 2021. In 2019, we were awarded a contract for the detail design and construction of Harrisburg (LPD 30). Surface Combatants We are a design agent for, and one of only two companies that constructs, the Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) guided missile destroyers, a class of surface combatant. We have delivered 31 Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers to the U.S. Navy, including Paul Ignatius (DDG 117) in 2019 and Ralph Johnson (DDG 114) in 2017. In 2013, we were awarded a multi-year contract totaling $3.3 billion for construction of five Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, of which one has been delivered. We are currently constructing the remaining four ships: Delbert D. Black (DDG 119), Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121), Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123), and Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125), with Delbert D. Black (DDG 119) scheduled for delivery in 2020. In September 2018, we were awarded a multi-year contract totaling $5.1 billion for construction of six additional Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers. 1 Table of Contents National Security Cutters The U.S. Coast Guard's recapitalization program is designed to replace aging and operationally expensive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. The flagship of this program is the Legend class NSC, a multi-mission platform we designed and continue to build. We delivered USCGC Kimball (NSC 7) and USCGC Midgett (NSC 8) to the U.S. Coast Guard in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Stone (NSC 9) is currently under construction and scheduled for delivery in 2020. In 2018, we were awarded long-lead-time material and construction contracts for Calhoun (NSC 10) and NSC 11 (unnamed), which are currently under construction. Newport News The core business of our Newport News segment is designing and constructing nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of such ships. Our Newport News shipyard is located on approximately 550 acres near the mouth of the James River, which adjoins the Chesapeake Bay. The shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities, which include seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, module outfitting facilities, and various other workshops. Our Newport News shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock serviced by a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of supporting two aircraft carriers at one time. Design, Construction, Refueling and Complex Overhaul, and Inactivation of Aircraft Carriers Engineering, design, and construction of U.S. Navy nuclear aircraft carriers ("CVN") are core to Newport News operations. Aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the U.S. Navy's fleet, with a displacement of over 90,000 tons. Newport News has designed and built more than 30 aircraft carriers for the U.S. Navy since 1933, including all ten Nimitz class (CVN 68) aircraft carriers currently in active service, as well as the first ship of the next generation Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers. We delivered the U.S. Navy's newest carrier, USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), in 2017. Beginning in 2009, we received contract awards totaling $7.6 billion for construction preparation, detail design, and construction of the second Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carrier, John F. Kennedy (CVN 79). In addition, we have received awards valued at $15.2 billion for detail design and construction of the Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Enterprise (CVN 80) and Doris Miller (CVN 81). We continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear aircraft carrier refueling and complex overhaul ("RCOH"). Each RCOH takes nearly four years to complete, with the work accounting for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization during an aircraft carrier's 50 year service life. RCOH services include propulsion work (refueling of reactors; propulsion plant modernization; and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank, and void maintenance; hull, shafting, propellers, and rudders; launch and recovery system; piping repairs; and component refurbishment), and modernization (electrical systems; aviation support systems; warfare; interoperability; and environmental compliance). We provide ongoing maintenance services for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through both RCOH and fleet support across the globe. In 2017, we completed the RCOH for USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN 72) and redelivered the ship to the U.S. Navy. We are currently performing the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73). We believe our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our RCOH performance on the first six Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers, our highly trained workforce, the capital-intensive nature of RCOH work, and high barriers to entry due to its nuclear component strongly position us for RCOH contract awards on the remaining Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers, as well as future work on Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers. We received a contract in 2013 to inactivate the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65), the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961. The decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) inactivation was completed in the second quarter of 2018. Aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the ten Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers we delivered that are currently in active service, as well as Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers we will deliver in the future, present significant opportunities for inactivation contracts as they reach the end of their lifespans. We believe we are well positioned as the U.S. Navy's shipyard of choice for these contract awards. 2 Table of Contents Design and Construction of Nuclear-Powered Submarines We are one of only two companies in the United States capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy. Newport News has delivered 62 submarines to the U.S. Navy since 1960, comprised of 48 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. Of the 52 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 26 were delivered by Newport News. Our nuclear submarine program, located at our Newport News shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research, and integrated planning. Virginia Class (SSN 774) Submarines We have a teaming agreement with Electric Boat Corporation ("Electric Boat"), a division of General Dynamics Corporation ("General Dynamics"), to build Virginia class (SSN 774) fast attack nuclear submarines cooperatively. Under the present arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail, and bow, while Electric Boat builds the engine room, control room, and pressure hull structure. Work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit, and delivery of the submarines alternate between Electric Boat and us. The four submarines of the first block and six submarines of the second block of Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines have been delivered. In 2008, the team was awarded a construction contract for the third block of eight Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines. The multi-year contract increased construction from one submarine per year to two submarines per year. The first submarine under this contract was delivered in 2014 and the last submarine of the third block was delivered in 2019. In 2014, the team was awarded a construction contract for the fourth block of ten Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines. The first submarine of the Block IV contract is scheduled for delivery in 2020, and the last is scheduled for delivery in 2024. In 2019, the team was awarded a construction contract for the fifth block of nine Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines, continuing the two submarines per year production rate that began on the third block. The first submarine of the Block V contract is scheduled for delivery in 2025 and the last is schedule for delivery in 2029. Columbia Class (SSBN 826) Submarines Newport News is participating in designing the Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine as a replacement for the current aging Ohio class nuclear ballistic missile submarines ("SSBN"), which were first introduced into service in 1981. The Ohio class SSBN includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines ("SSGN"). The Columbia class (SSBN 826) program currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines. We perform design work as a subcontractor to Electric Boat, and we have entered into a teaming agreement with Electric Boat to build modules for the entire Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine program that leverages our Virginia class (SSN 774) experience. We have been awarded contracts from Electric Boat to begin integrated product and process development and provide long-lead-time material and advance construction for the Columbia class (SSBN 826) program. Construction of the first Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine is expected to begin in 2021. Naval Nuclear Support Services Newport News provides additional services to and in support of the U.S. Navy, ranging from services supporting the Navy's carrier and submarine fleets to maintenance services at U.S. Navy training facilities. Fleet services include design, construction, maintenance, and disposal activities for in service U.S. Navy nuclear ships worldwide through mobile and in-house capabilities. We also provide maintenance services on nuclear reactor prototypes, such as those at the Kenneth A. Kesselring Site, a research and development facility in New York that supports the U.S. Navy. Technical Solutions Our Technical Solutions segment was established in 2016 to enhance strategic and operational alignment among our services businesses. The Technical Solutions segment includes businesses that are focused on life-cycle sustainment services to the U.S. Navy fleet and other maritime customers; high-end information technology ( IT ) and mission-based solutions for DoD, intelligence, and federal civilian customers; nuclear management and operations and environmental management services for the Department of Energy ("DoE"), DoD, state and local governments, and private sector companies; and full-service engineering, procurement, construction management ( EPCM ), and engineering and field services solutions for the oil and gas industry. 3 Table of Contents Fleet Support Services Our fleet support services provide comprehensive life-cycle sustainment services to the U.S. Navy fleet and other DoD and commercial maritime customers. Our technical and waterfront ship services include maintenance, modernization, and repair on all ship classes; naval architecture, marine engineering, and design; integrated logistics support; technical documentation development; warehousing, asset management, and material readiness; operational and maintenance training development and delivery; software design and development; IT infrastructure support and data delivery and management; and cyber security and information assurance. In addition to our broad range of life-cycle sustainment services, we provide undersea vehicle and specialized craft development and prototyping services. Mission Driven Innovative Solutions ("MDIS") Our MDIS services include high-end IT and mission-based solutions to DoD, intelligence, and federal civilian customers, such as the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts and the U.S. Postal Service. The services and solutions we provide are accessible through a broad portfolio of contract vehicles and include agile software engineering, development, and integration; Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance ("C4ISR") engineering and software integration; mobile application development and network engineering; modeling, simulation, and training; force protection and emergency management training and exercises; unmanned systems development, integration, operations, and maintenance; and mission-oriented intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance analytics. Nuclear and Environmental Services Our nuclear and environmental services focus on nuclear management and operations. We provide site management, nuclear and industrial facilities operations and maintenance, decontamination and decommissioning, and radiological and hazardous waste management services to DoE, DoD, state and local governments, and private sector companies. As part of our nuclear and environmental services, we participate in joint ventures, including Newport News Nuclear BWXT Los Alamos, LLC ("N3B"), Mission Support and Test Services, LLC ("MSTS"), and Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC ("SRNS"). We have a 51% ownership interest in N3B, which, in 2017, was awarded the Los Alamos Legacy Cleanup Contract at the DoE/National Nuclear Security Administration s Los Alamos National Laboratory located northwest of Santa Fe, New Mexico. We have a 23% ownership interest in MSTS, which, in 2017, was awarded a contract for site management and operations at the Nevada National Security Site located northwest of Las Vegas, Nevada. We have a 34% ownership interest in SRNS, which provides site management and operations at the DoE's Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina. Oil and Gas Services Our oil and gas services provide engineering, procurement, and construction management services to the oil and gas industry for major pipeline, production, and treatment facilities. These services include full life-cycle services for domestic and international projects, from concept identification through detail design, execution and construction, and decommissioning. We also offer related field services, including survey, inspection, commissioning and start-up, operations and maintenance, and optimization and debottlenecking. Corporate HII was incorporated in Delaware on August 4, 2010, and became an independent, publicly owned company in 2011, when we were spun-off from Northrop Grumman. Our principal executive offices are located at 4101 Washington Avenue, Newport News, Virginia 23607. Our telephone number is (757) 380-2000, and our home page on the Internet is www.huntingtoningalls.com. References to our website in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Accordingly, such information should not be considered part of this report. 4 Table of Contents Customers Our revenues are primarily derived from the U.S. Government. In 2019, 2018, and 2017, approximately 87%, 88%, and 87%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the U.S. Navy, and approximately 4%, 5%, and 6%, respectively, were generated from the U.S. Coast Guard. In 2019, 2018, and 2017, we generated approximately 3%, 3%, and 3%, respectively, of our revenues from commercial customers and 6%, 4%, and 4%, respectively, from other government agencies. Intellectual Property We develop and incorporate into our vessels new technologies, manufacturing processes, and systems-integration processes. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we license intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. Government receives non-exclusive licenses to our intellectual property developed in the performance of U.S. Government contracts and unlimited license rights in technical data developed under our U.S. Government contracts when such data is developed entirely at government expense. The U.S. Government may use or authorize others to use the intellectual property we license to the government. While our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. Seasonality No material portion of our business is seasonal. The timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, contract cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments - Revenue Recognition in Item 7. Backlog As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, our total backlog was approximately $46.5 billion and $23.0 billion, respectively. We expect approximately 17% of backlog at December 31, 2019, to be converted into sales in 2020. Total backlog includes both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding is contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding is not currently contractually obligated by the customer). Unfunded backlog excludes unexercised contract options and unfunded Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") orders. For contracts having no stated contract values, backlog includes only the amounts committed by the customer. Backlog is converted into sales as work is performed or deliveries are made. For backlog by segment, see Backlog in Item 7. Raw Materials The most significant material we use is steel. Other materials we use in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable, and fittings. All of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. In connection with our U.S. Government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. For long-term contracts, we generally obtain price quotations for many of our material requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. While we have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source, we currently have only one supplier for certain component parts as a result of consolidation in the defense industry. We believe that these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our foreseeable needs. We have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with certain raw material suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases through certain contractual arrangements with customers. Governmental Regulation and Supervision Our business is affected by a variety of laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. See Risk Factors in Item 1A. We operate in a heavily regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its agencies, including the U.S. Navy's Supervisor of Shipbuilding, the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"), and the Defense Contract Management Agency ("DCMA"). These agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our 5 Table of Contents business systems and processes relative to U.S. Government requirements. Our business systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, government property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management accounting systems. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. Certain U.S. Government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. Government contracts or the loss of export privileges . In addition, any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if already reimbursed. The U.S. Government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more of our business systems. The U.S. Government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. Although this has not materially impacted the timing of our cash receipts in the past, any such action by the U.S. Government in the future could have a material impact on the timing of our cash receipts. The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based upon performance. In the event of termination of a contract for convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the remaining profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. A termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess reprocurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. Government contractors must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those related to procurement and cyber security. Our contracts with the U.S. Government may result in Requests for Equitable Adjustments ("REAs"), which represent requests for the U.S. Government to make appropriate adjustments to contract terms, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the U.S. Government is responsible. We submit and negotiate REAs in the ordinary course of business, and large REAs are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and RCOH activities. REAs are not considered claims under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, although they may be converted to such claims if we cannot reach agreement with the U.S. Government. In cases where there are multiple suppliers, contracts for the construction and conversion of U.S. Navy ships and submarines are generally subject to competitive bidding. In evaluating proposed prices, the U.S. Navy sometimes requires bidders to submit information on pricing, estimated costs of completion, and anticipated profit margins to enable the Navy to assess cost realism. The U.S. Navy uses this information and other data to determine an estimated cost for each bidder. U.S. Government regulations determine the contractor costs that are allowable and therefore recoverable from the government, and certain costs are not allowable and therefore are not recoverable. The U.S. Government also regulates the methods by which allowable costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. Our business, our contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government, and our subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR"), the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement ("DFARS"), the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the False Claims Act, U.S. Cost Accounting Standards ("CAS"), the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are also subject to evolving cyber security and data privacy and protection laws and regulations. A noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. 6 Table of Contents Competition In our primary business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with General Dynamics and, to a lesser extent, smaller shipyards, one or more of which could team with a large defense contractor. Intense competition related to programs, resources, and funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. It is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, serve as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding long-term contracts, allows companies that perform well to benefit from a level of program continuity not common in many industries. We believe we are well-positioned in our markets. Because we are the only company currently capable of building, refueling, and inactivating the U.S. Navy's nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, we believe we are in a strong competitive position to be awarded each contract to perform such activities. Even 