Item 1. BUSINESS 1 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 12 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 26 Item 1C. CYBERSECURITY 26 Item 2. PROPERTIES 28 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 29 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 29 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 30 Item 6. [RESERVED] 31 Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 31 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 52 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 54 REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 54 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 58 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 59 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 61 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 62 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 99 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 99 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 99 Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 100 PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 101 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 104 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 104 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 105 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 105 PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 106 Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 111 SIGNATURES 112 i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS History and Organization Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. ("HII", the "Company", "we", "us", or "our") is a global, all-domain defense partner, building and delivering the world's most powerful, survivable naval ships and technologies that safeguard America s seas, sky, land, space, and cyber. For more than a century, our Ingalls Shipbuilding segment ("Ingalls") in Mississippi and Newport News Shipbuilding segment ("Newport News") in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder, making us America's largest shipbuilder. Our Mission Technologies segment develops integrated technology solutions and products that enable today's connected, all domain force. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, we employ over 44,000 people domestically and internationally. We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the Department of Defense ("DoD"). As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. Our Mission Technologies segment provides a wide range of services and products, including command, control, computers, communications, cyber, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance ("C5ISR") systems and operations; the application of Artificial Intelligence and machine learning to battlefield decisions; defense and offensive cyberspace strategies and electronic warfare; unmanned autonomous systems; live, virtual, and constructive training solutions; fleet sustainment; and critical nuclear operations. Ingalls Through our Ingalls segment, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard, including amphibious assault ships, expeditionary warfare ships, surface combatants, and national security cutters ("NSC"). We are the sole builder of amphibious assault ships and one of two builders of surface combatants for the U.S. Navy. We are the sole builder of large multi-mission NSCs for the U.S. Coast Guard. Our Ingalls segment is located in Pascagoula, Mississippi on 800 acres along the Pascagoula River. Amphibious Assault Ships We construct amphibious assault ships and expeditionary warfare ships for the U.S. Navy, which include U.S. Navy large deck amphibious assault ships ("LHA") and amphibious transport dock ships ("LPD"), respectively. The LHA is a key component of the Department of the Navy's requirement for Expeditionary Strike Groups/Amphibious Readiness Groups, and design, construction, and modernization of LHAs are core to our Ingalls operations. In 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for USS America (LHA 6), the first in a class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized Marine assault platform. We are currently constructing Bougainville (LHA 8) and Fallujah (LHA 9). In 2023, we were awarded a long-lead-time material contract for LHA 10 (unnamed). The LPD program is a long-running production program of expeditionary warfare ships in which we have generated efficiencies through ship-over-ship learning. We delivered USS Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28) in 2022, and we are currently constructing Richard M. McCool Jr . (LPD 29), Harrisburg (LPD 30), and Pittsburgh (LPD 31). In 2023, we were awarded a contract to construct Philadelphia (LPD 32). Surface Combatants We are a design agent for, and one of only two companies that constructs, Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) guided missile destroyers, a class of surface combatant. We have delivered 35 Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers to the U.S. Navy, including USS Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125) in 2023, USS Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123) in 2022, and USS Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121) in 2021. In 2018, we were awarded a multi-year contract for construction of six Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers and, in 2020,a contract to construct an additional Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyer. In 2023, we were awarded a multi-year contract for construction of six more Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, as well as the first option ship, for a total of seven ships. We are currently 1 constructing Ted Stevens (DDG128), Jeremiah Denton (DDG 129), George M. Neal (DDG 131), Sam Nunn (DDG 133), and Thad Cochran (DDG 135). National Security Cutters The U.S. Coast Guard's recapitalization program is replacing aging and operationally expansive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. The flagship of this program is the Legend class NSC, a multi-mission platform we designed and continue to build. In 2018, we were awarded long-lead-time material and construction contracts for Calhoun (NSC 10), which was delivered to the U.S. Coast Guard in 2023, and Friedman (NSC 11), which is currently under construction. Newport News The core business of our Newport News segment is designing and constructing nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. Our Newport News shipyard is located on approximately 550 acres near the mouth of the James River, which adjoins the Chesapeake Bay. Design, Construction, Refueling and Complex Overhaul, and Inactivation of Aircraft Carriers Engineering, design, and construction of U.S. Navy nuclear aircraft carriers ("CVN") are core to Newport News operations. Aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the U.S. Navy's fleet, with a displacement of over 90,000 tons. Newport News has designed and built more than 31 aircraft carriers for the U.S. Navy since 1933, including all ten Nimitz class (CVN 68) aircraft carriers currently in active service, as well as the first ship of the next generation Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers. We delivered USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78), the first aircraft carrier of the Gerald R. Ford class to the U.S. Navy in 2017. Beginning in 2009, we received contract awards totaling $8.7 billion for construction preparation, detail design, and construction of the second Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carrier, John F. Kennedy (CVN 79). In addition, we have received contract awards valued at $15.3 billion for detail design and construction of the Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Enterprise (CVN 80) and Doris Miller (CVN 81). We continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear aircraft carrier refueling and complex overhaul ("RCOH"). Each RCOH takes nearly four years to complete, with the work accounting for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization during an aircraft carrier's 50 year service life. RCOH services include propulsion work (refueling of reactors; propulsion plant modernization; and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank, and void maintenance; hull, shafting, propellers, and rudders; launch and recovery system; piping repairs; and component refurbishment), and modernization (electrical systems; aviation support systems; warfare; interoperability; and environmental compliance). We provide ongoing maintenance services for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through both RCOH and fleet support services worldwide. USS George Washington (CVN 73) was redelivered to the U.S. Navy in 2023 after completion of its RCOH, and we are currently performing the RCOH of USS John C. Stennis (CVN 74). We believe our current position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our RCOH performance on the first seven Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers, our highly trained workforce, the capital-intensive nature of RCOH work, and high barriers to entry due to required nuclear expertise position us well for RCOH contract awards on the remaining Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers, as well as future RCOH work on Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers. Aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the ten Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers we delivered that are currently in active service, as well as Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers, present significant opportunities for inactivation contracts as they reach the end of their lifespans. We believe we are well positioned to be the U.S. Navy's shipyard of choice for these contract awards. Design and Construction of Nuclear-Powered Submarines We are one of only two companies in the United States currently capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy. Newport News has delivered 63 submarines to the U.S. Navy since 1960, comprised of 49 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. Of the 49 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in 2 active service, 23 were delivered by Newport News. Our nuclear submarine program, located at our Newport News shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research, and integrated planning. Virginia Class (SSN 774) Submarines We have a teaming agreement with Electric Boat Corporation ("Electric Boat"), a division of General Dynamics Corporation ("General Dynamics"), to build Virginia class (SSN 774) fast attack nuclear submarines. Under the teaming arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail, and bow, while Electric Boat builds the engine room, control room, and pressure hull structure. Work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit, and delivery of the submarines to the U.S. Navy alternates between Electric Boat and us. The four submarines of the first block, six submarines of the second block, and eight submarines of the third block of Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines have been delivered. In 2014, the team was awarded a construction contract for the fourth block of ten Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines, which contemplated production of two submarines per year. The first submarine of the Block IV contract was delivered in 2020, and three more submarines have been delivered through 2023. The remaining six boats of the Block IV contract are in the final assembly and test phases of construction. In 2019, the team was awarded a construction contract for the fifth block of nine Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines, and, in 2021, an option for a 10th submarine was exercised, continuing the two submarines per year production rate. Ten of the Block V boats are in manufacturing and outfitting stages of construction. In 2023, the team was awarded a contract modification for advance procurement for long lead-time material in support of two additional Block V boats, bringing the total Block V boats to 12. In addition, the team received a contract award for advance procurement of long-lead-time material in support of the first two Block VI boats. Columbia Class (SSBN 826) Submarines Newport News is participating in the design and construction of the Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarines as a replacement for the current aging Ohio class nuclear ballistic missile submarines ("SSBN"), which were first introduced into service in 1981. The Columbia class (SSBN 826) program currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines. We perform design work as a subcontractor to Electric Boat, and we have entered into a teaming agreement with Electric Boat to build modules for the entire Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine program that leverages our Virginia class (SSN 774) experience. Contract award for the first two Columbia class submarines (SSBN 826 and SSBN 827) and construction start of the first Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine occurred in late 2020. In 2023, we were awarded a contract modification for long-lead-time material and advance construction in support of five additional Columbia class (SSBN 826) boats, also referred to as Build II of the class. Naval Nuclear Support Services Newport News provides additional services to and in support of the U.S. Navy, ranging from services supporting the Navy's carrier and submarine fleets to maintenance services at U.S. Navy training facilities. Fleet support services include design, construction, maintenance, and disposal activities for in-service U.S. Navy nuclear ships worldwide through mobile and in-house capabilities. We also provide maintenance services on nuclear reactor prototypes, such as those at the Kenneth A. Kesselring Site, a research and development facility in New York that supports the U.S. Navy. Mission Technologies Our Mission Technologies segment develops integrated solutions that enable today s connected, all-domain force. Our capabilities include C5ISR systems and operations; the application of Artificial Intelligence ("AI") and machine learning to battlefield decisions; defensive and offensive cyberspace strategies and electronic warfare ("CEW S"); live, virtual, constructive solutions ("LVC"); unmanned, autonomous systems; fleet sustainment; and critical nuclear operations. Our domain expertise and advanced technologies support our mission partners across the globe. 3 C5ISR C5ISR designs, develops, integrates, and manages the sensors, systems and other assets necessary to support integrated ISR operations and accelerated decision-making. These business activities provide data fusion and mission management capabilities for the DoD, the combatant commands, and the intelligence community. CEW S CEW S works within our nation s intelligence and cyber operations communities to defend U.S. interests in cyberspace and anticipate emerging threats. Our capabilities in cybersecurity, network architecture, reverse engineering, software, and hardware development uniquely enable our ability to support sensitive missions for the U.S. military and federal agency partners. We also develop, test, and integrate leading-edge AI and machine learning algorithms to optimize and accelerate the nation s mission-critical systems and platforms. LVC LVC training connects live environments with virtual platforms and simulated (constructive) threats to prepare trainees through integrated, real world scenarios before they are in harm s way. LVC is a modern and distributed approach to U.S. military training. Fleet Sustainment Fleet sustainment provides comprehensive life-cycle sustainment to the U.S. Navy fleet and other DoD and commercial maritime customers. Services include maintenance, modernization, and repair on all ship classes; naval architecture, marine engineering, and design; integrated logistics support; technical documentation development; warehousing, asset management, and material readiness; operational and maintenance training development and delivery; software design and development; IT infrastructure support and data delivery and management; and cyber security and information assurance. We also provide undersea vehicle and specialized craft development and prototyping services. Unmanned Systems Unmanned Systems develops advanced unmanned systems for defense, marine research, and commercial applications. Serving customers in more than 30 countries, we provide design, autonomy, manufacturing, testing, operations, and sustainment of unmanned systems, including unmanned underwater vehicles and unmanned surface vessels. Nuclear and Environmental Services Nuclear and Environmental Services support the Department of Energy s ("DoE") national security mission through the management and operation of DoE sites, as well as the safe cleanup of legacy waste across the country. Through participation in joint ventures, including Newport News Nuclear BWXT Los Alamos, LLC ("N3B"), Mission Support and Test Services, LLC ("MSTS"), and Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC ("SRNS"), we meet customers toughest nuclear and environmental challenges. Customers Our revenues are primarily derived from the U.S. Government, including the U.S. Navy, the U.S. Coast Guard, the DoD, the DoE, and other federal agencies. In 2023, 2022, and 2021, approximately 81%, 82%, and 90%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the U.S. Navy. Intellectual Property We develop new technologies that are incorporated into the products and services we provide to our customers. We also develop new manufacturing processes and systems-integration technologies and processes that we use to produce our products and to provide services to our customers. In addition to owning intellectual property, we license intellectual property rights to and from other parties. The U.S. Government generally receives non-exclusive licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in the performance of U.S. Government contracts and unlimited license rights in technical data developed under our U.S. Government contracts when such data is developed 4 entirely at government expense. The U.S. Government may use or authorize other parties to use the intellectual property we license to the government. While our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. Seasonality No material portion of our business is seasonal. The timing of our revenue recognition is based on multiple factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, contract cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8. Backlog As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, our total backlog was approximately $48.1 billion and $47.1 billion, respectively. We expect approximately 22% of backlog at December 31, 2023, to be converted into sales in 2024. Raw Materials We rely on third parties to provide raw materials. The most significant material we use is steel. Other materials we use in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cables, electronic components, fittings, custom machine items, and sensors. All of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. In connection with our U.S. Government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. For long-term contracts, we generally solicit price quotations for many of our material requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. While we have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source, we currently have only one supplier for certain component parts as a result of consolidation in the defense industry. We believe these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our foreseeable needs. Any inability to procure the necessary raw materials, components, and other supplies for our products on a timely basis could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flow. In addition, a significant prolonged increase in inflation could negatively impact the cost of raw materials, components, and other supplies. We mitigate some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with certain raw material suppliers, and we mitigate inflation risk related to raw material to an extent through price escalation provisions in certain customer contracts. Regulatory Matters We operate in heavily regulated markets and must comply with a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts, as well as legal and regulatory requirements relating to cyber security, environmental protection, and our nuclear operations. Government contracting requirements increase our contract performance costs and compliance costs and risks. See Risk Factors in Item 1A. Government Contracting We are overseen and audited by the U.S. Government and its agencies, including the U.S. Navy's Supervisor of Shipbuilding, the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"), and the Defense Contract Management Agency ("DCMA"). These agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. Certain U.S. Government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. Government contracts or the loss of export privileges. U.S. Government agencies also evaluate the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to U.S. Government requirements. Our business systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, government property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management accounting systems. The U.S. Government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more of our business systems. The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based upon performance. In the event of termination of a contract for convenience, a 5 contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and profit on incurred costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. A termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. Our contracts with the U.S. Government sometimes result in Requests for Equitable Adjustments ("REAs"), which represent requests for the U.S. Government to make appropriate adjustments to contract terms, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes to the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption for which the U.S. Government is responsible. We submit and negotiate REAs in the ordinary course of business, and large REAs are not uncommon at the conclusion of both new construction and RCOH activities. REAs can result in claims under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 in cases in which we cannot reach agreement with the U.S. Government. U.S. Government regulations determine contractor costs that are allowable and therefore recoverable from the government, and certain costs are not allowable and therefore not recoverable. The U.S. Government also regulates the methods by which allowable costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. Costs we incur that are not allowable under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (the FAR ) or U.S. Cost Accounting Standards ( CAS ) or that are otherwise determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract are not recoverable or must be refunded if already reimbursed. Our business, including contracts with U.S. Government agencies and subcontracts with other prime contractors, is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the FAR, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement ("DFARS"), the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the False Claims Act, CAS, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. We are also subject to evolving cyber security and data privacy and protection laws and regulations, which increase our costs and compliance risks and may affect our competitiveness, cause reputational harm, and expose us to damage claims, substantial fines, and other penalties. See Note 7: Revenue under Item 8 and "Risk Factors" in Item 1A for further information regarding our contracts. Nuclear Our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, the DoE, and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. In addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, the DoE, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the U.S. Navy and the DoE generally provide for indemnity by the U.S. Government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. For our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. See "Risk Factors" in Item 1A for further information regarding nuclear regulatory matters. Environmental Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations impose liability upon a party for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. We accrue estimated costs to perform environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a Potentially Responsible Party 6 ("PRP") by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. Uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations make future environmental remediation costs difficult to estimate and can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. We believe we are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. We could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any laws and regulations enacted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. We have made investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental legal requirements, but we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. We do not currently believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and Note 16: Commitments and Contingencies under Item 8 for further information regarding environmental matters. Competitive Environment In our business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with General Dynamics and, in the case of certain non-nuclear shipbuilding programs, smaller shipyards. The smaller shipyards sometimes team with large defense contractors. Intense competition related to programs, resources, funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our shipbuilding business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. It is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the cont