Item 1. BUSINESS 1 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 12 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 26 Item 2. PROPERTIES 26 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 27 Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 27 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 28 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 29 Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 29 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 56 Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 57 REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 57 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 60 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 61 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 63 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 64 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 105 Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 105 Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 105 Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 105 PART III Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 106 Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 109 Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 109 Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 109 Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 110 PART IV Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 111 Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 116 SIGNATURES 117 i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS History and Organization Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. ("HII", the "Company", "we", "us", or "our") is America s largest military shipbuilding company and a provider of professional services to partners in government and industry. For more than a century, our Ingalls Shipbuilding segment ("Ingalls") in Mississippi and Newport News Shipbuilding segment ("Newport News") in Virginia have built more ships in more ship classes than any other U.S. naval shipbuilder. Our Technical Solutions segment provides a range of services to government and commercial customers. We conduct most of our business with the U.S. Government, primarily the Department of Defense ("DoD"). As prime contractor, principal subcontractor, team member, or partner, we participate in many high-priority U.S. defense programs. Ingalls includes our non-nuclear ship design, construction, repair, and maintenance businesses. Newport News includes all of our nuclear ship design, construction, overhaul, refueling, and repair and maintenance businesses. We also provide a wide range of professional services, including defense and federal solutions ("DFS"), nuclear and environmental services, and unmanned systems, through our Technical Solutions segment. Headquartered in Newport News, Virginia, we employ approximately 44,000 people domestically and internationally. Ingalls Through our Ingalls segment, we design and construct non-nuclear ships for the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard, including amphibious assault ships, expeditionary warfare ships, surface combatants, and national security cutters ("NSC"). We are the sole builder of amphibious assault ships and one of two builders of surface combatants for the U.S. Navy. We are the sole builder of large multi-mission NSCs for the U.S. Coast Guard. Our Ingalls segment is located in Pascagoula, Mississippi on 800 acres along the Pascagoula River. This shipyard offers a collection of manufacturing capabilities that includes a 660-ton gantry crane and a Land Based Test Facility. Amphibious Assault Ships We construct amphibious assault ships and expeditionary warfare ships for the U.S. Navy, which include U.S. Navy large deck amphibious assault ships ("LHA") and amphibious transport dock ships ("LPD"), respectively. The LHA is a key component of the Department of the Navy's requirement for Expeditionary Strike Groups/Amphibious Readiness Groups, and design, construction, and modernization of LHAs are core to our Ingalls operations. In 2007, we were awarded the construction contract for USS America (LHA 6), the first in a class of enhanced amphibious assault ships designed from the keel up to be an aviation optimized Marine assault platform. We delivered USS Tripoli (LHA 7) in 2020 and are currently constructing Bougainville (LHA 8). In 2020, we were awarded a long-lead-time material and construction contract for LHA 9 (unnamed). The LPD program is a long-running production program of expeditionary warfare ships in which we have generated efficiencies through ship-over-ship learning. We delivered USS Portland (LPD 27) in 2017 and USS John P. Murtha (LPD 26) in 2016, and we are currently constructing Fort Lauderdale (LPD 28), Richard M. McCool Jr . (LPD 29), and Harrisburg (LPD 30). In 2020, we were awarded a contract to construct Pittsburgh (LPD 31). Surface Combatants We are a design agent for, and one of only two companies that constructs, Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) guided missile destroyers, a class of surface combatant. We have delivered 33 Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers to the U.S. Navy, including Frank E. Petersen Jr. (DDG 121) in 2021, USS Delbert D. Black (DDG 119) in 2020, and USS Paul Ignatius (DDG 117) in 2019. In 2013, we were awarded a multi-year contract totaling $3.3 billion for construction of five Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers, of which three have been delivered. We are currently constructing the remaining two ships: Lenah H. Sutcliffe Higbee (DDG 123) and Jack H. Lucas (DDG 125). In 2018, we were awarded a multi-year contract totaling $5.1 billion for construction of six additional Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyers. In 2020, we were awarded a contract to construct an additional Arleigh Burke class (DDG 51) destroyer. 1 National Security Cutters The U.S. Coast Guard's recapitalization program is designed to replace aging and operationally expansive ships and aircraft used to conduct missions in excess of 50 miles from the shoreline. The flagship of this program is the Legend class NSC, a multi-mission platform we designed and continue to build. We delivered USCGC Kimball (NSC 7), USCGC Midgett (NSC 8), and USCGC Stone (NSC 9) to the U.S. Coast Guard in 2018, 2019, and 2020, respectively. In 2018, we were awarded long-lead-time material and construction contracts for Calhoun (NSC 10) and Friedman (NSC 11), which are currently under construction. Newport News The core business of our Newport News segment is designing and constructing nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and submarines, and the refueling and overhaul and the inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. Our Newport News shipyard is located on approximately 550 acres near the mouth of the James River, which adjoins the Chesapeake Bay. The shipyard has two miles of waterfront property and heavy industrial facilities, which include seven graving docks, a floating dry dock, two outfitting berths, five outfitting piers, module outfitting facilities, and various other workshops. Our Newport News shipyard also has a 2,170-foot dry dock serviced by a 1,050-ton gantry crane capable of supporting two aircraft carriers at one time. Design, Construction, Refueling and Complex Overhaul, and Inactivation of Aircraft Carriers Engineering, design, and construction of U.S. Navy nuclear aircraft carriers ("CVN") are core to Newport News operations. Aircraft carriers are the largest ships in the U.S. Navy's fleet, with a displacement of over 90,000 tons. Newport News has designed and built more than 31 aircraft carriers for the U.S. Navy since 1933, including all ten Nimitz class (CVN 68) aircraft carriers currently in active service, as well as the first ship of the next generation Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers. Beginning in 2009, we received contract awards totaling $7.8 billion for construction preparation, detail design, and construction of the second Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carrier, John F. Kennedy (CVN 79). In addition, we have received awards valued at $15.3 billion for detail design and construction of the Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers Enterprise (CVN 80) and Doris Miller (CVN 81). We continue to be the exclusive prime contractor for nuclear aircraft carrier refueling and complex overhaul ("RCOH"). Each RCOH takes nearly four years to complete, with the work accounting for approximately 35% of all maintenance and modernization during an aircraft carrier's 50 year service life. RCOH services include propulsion work (refueling of reactors; propulsion plant modernization; and propulsion plant repairs), restoration of service life (dry docking, tank, and void maintenance; hull, shafting, propellers, and rudders; launch and recovery system; piping repairs; and component refurbishment), and modernization (electrical systems; aviation support systems; warfare; interoperability; and environmental compliance). We provide ongoing maintenance services for the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier fleet through both RCOH and fleet support across the globe. We are currently performing the RCOH of USS George Washington (CVN 73) and USS John C. Stennis (CVN 74). We believe our position as the exclusive designer and builder of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our RCOH performance on the first seven Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers, our highly trained workforce, the capital-intensive nature of RCOH work, and high barriers to entry due to its nuclear component strongly position us for RCOH contract awards on the remaining Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers, as well as future RCOH work on Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers. We received a contract in 2013 to inactivate the decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65), the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, which was built by us and commissioned in 1961. The decommissioned Enterprise (CVN 65) inactivation was completed in the second quarter of 2018. Aircraft carriers have a lifespan of approximately 50 years, and we believe the ten Nimitz class (CVN 68) carriers we delivered that are currently in active service, as well as Gerald R. Ford class (CVN 78) aircraft carriers, present significant opportunities for inactivation contracts as they reach the end of their lifespans. We believe we are well positioned as the U.S. Navy's shipyard of choice for these contract awards. 2 Design and Construction of Nuclear-Powered Submarines We are one of only two companies in the United States capable of designing and building nuclear-powered submarines for the U.S. Navy. Newport News has delivered 62 submarines to the U.S. Navy since 1960, comprised of 48 fast attack and 14 ballistic missile submarines. Of the 52 nuclear-powered fast attack submarines currently in active service, 25 were delivered by Newport News. Our nuclear submarine program, located at our Newport News shipyard, includes construction, engineering, design, research, and integrated planning. Virginia Class (SSN 774) Submarines We have a teaming agreement with Electric Boat Corporation ("Electric Boat"), a division of General Dynamics Corporation ("General Dynamics"), to build Virginia class (SSN 774) fast attack nuclear submarines. Under the teaming arrangement, we build the stern, habitability and machinery spaces, torpedo room, sail, and bow, while Electric Boat builds the engine room, control room, and pressure hull structure. Work on the reactor plant and the final assembly, test, outfit, and delivery of the submarines to the U.S. Navy alternates between Electric Boat and us. The four submarines of the first block and six submarines of the second block of Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines have been delivered. In December 2008, the U.S. Navy signed a contract for eight Block III Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines. The contract required delivery of one Virginia class (SSN 774) submarine per year for the first two years, and increased production to two submarines per year for the remaining six Block III boats. The first submarine under this contract was delivered in 2014, and the last submarine of Block III was delivered in 2019. In 2014, the team was awarded a construction contract for the fourth block of ten Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines. The first submarine of the Block IV contract was delivered in 2020, and the remaining boats are in the module outfitting, final assembly, and test phases of construction. In 2019, the team was awarded a construction contract for the fifth block of nine Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines, and, in 2021, an option for a 10th submarine was exercised, continuing the two submarines per year production rate that began on the third block. The fiscal year 2021 appropriations act included funding for the 10th submarine in Block V, and the fiscal year 2022 National Defense Authorization Act recommends continued procurement of two Virginia class (SSN 774) submarines per fiscal year. All ten boats of the Block V contract are in the early manufacturing and advance procurement phases. Columbia Class (SSBN 826) Submarines Newport News is participating in design and construction of the Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine as a replacement for the current aging Ohio class nuclear ballistic missile submarines ("SSBN"), which were first introduced into service in 1981. The Ohio class SSBN includes 14 nuclear ballistic missile submarines and four nuclear cruise missile submarines ("SSGN"). The Columbia class (SSBN 826) program currently anticipates 12 new ballistic missile submarines. We perform design work as a subcontractor to Electric Boat, and we have entered into a teaming agreement with Electric Boat to build modules for the entire Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine program that leverages our Virginia class (SSN 774) experience. We were previously awarded contracts from Electric Boat to begin integrated product and process development and provide long lead-time material and advance construction for the Columbia class (SSBN 826) program. Contract award for the first two Columbia class submarines (SSBN 826 and SSBN 827) and construction start of the first Columbia class (SSBN 826) submarine occurred in late 2020. Naval Nuclear Support Services Newport News provides additional services to and in support of the U.S. Navy, ranging from services supporting the Navy's carrier and submarine fleets to maintenance services at U.S. Navy training facilities. Fleet support services include design, construction, maintenance, and disposal activities for in-service U.S. Navy nuclear ships worldwide through mobile and in-house capabilities. We also provide maintenance services on nuclear reactor prototypes, such as those at the Kenneth A. Kesselring Site, a research and development facility in New York that supports the U.S. Navy. Technical Solutions The Technical Solutions segment includes businesses that are focused on life-cycle sustainment services to the U.S. Navy fleet and other maritime customers; high-end information technology ( IT ) and mission-based solutions for DoD, intelligence, and federal civilian customers; and nuclear management and operations and environmental management services for the Department of Energy ("DoE"), DoD, state and local governments, and private sector 3 companies. This segment was established to unify multiple strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of Alion Science and Technology in August 2021. The Technical Solutions segment is comprised of three business units as follows: Defense and Federal Solutions ( DFS ) DFS is focused on solving national security challenges for the DoD, the intelligence community, and federal civilian agencies around the globe. The group s expertise includes maritime fleet sustainment; intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; cyber operations; secure enterprise information technology engineering and operations; advanced modeling, simulation, and training; and logistics management. Nuclear and Environmental Services Our nuclear and environmental services focus on nuclear management and operations. We provide site management, nuclear and industrial facilities operations and maintenance, decontamination and decommissioning, and radiological and hazardous waste management services to DoE, DoD, state and local governments, and private sector companies. As part of our nuclear and environmental services, we participate in joint ventures, including Newport News Nuclear BWXT Los Alamos, LLC ("N3B"), Mission Support and Test Services, LLC ("MSTS"), and Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC ("SRNS"). We have a 51% ownership interest in N3B, which, in 2017, was awarded the Los Alamos Legacy Cleanup Contract at the DoE/National Nuclear Security Administration s Los Alamos National Laboratory located northwest of Santa Fe, New Mexico. We have a 23% ownership interest in MSTS, which, in 2017, was awarded a contract for site management and operations at the Nevada National Security Site located northwest of Las Vegas, Nevada. We have a 34% ownership interest in SRNS, which provides site management and operations at the DoE's Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina. Unmanned Systems Our unmanned systems products and services create advanced unmanned maritime solutions for defense, marine research, and commercial applications. Serving customers in more than 30 countries, unmanned systems provides design, autonomy, manufacturing, testing, operations, and sustainment of unmanned systems, including unmanned underwater vehicles and unmanned surface vessels. Customers Our revenues are primarily derived from the U.S. Government, including the U.S. Navy, the U.S. Coast Guard, the DoD, the DoE, and other federal agencies. In 2021, 2020, and 2019, approximately 90%, 88%, and 87%, respectively, of our revenues were generated from the U.S. Navy. Intellectual Property We develop new technologies that are incorporated into the products we produce for our customers. We also develop new manufacturing processes and systems-integration technologies and processes that we use to produce our products and to provide services to our customers. In addition to owning intellectual property, we license intellectual property rights to and from other parties. The U.S. Government generally receives non-exclusive licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in the performance of U.S. Government contracts and unlimited license rights in technical data developed under our U.S. Government contracts when such data is developed entirely at government expense. The U.S. Government may use or authorize other parties to use the intellectual property we license to the government. While our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. Seasonality No material portion of our business is seasonal. The timing of our revenue recognition is based on several factors, including the timing of contract awards, the incurrence of contract costs, contract cost estimation, and unit deliveries. See Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8. 4 Backlog As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, our total backlog was approximately $48.5 billion and $46.0 billion, respectively. We expect approximately 19% of backlog at December 31, 2021, to be converted into sales in 2022. Raw Materials The most significant material we use is steel. Other materials we use in large quantities include paint, aluminum, pipe, electrical cable, and fittings. All of these materials are currently available in adequate supply. In connection with our U.S. Government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials and component parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. For long-term contracts, we generally solicit price quotations for many of our material requirements from multiple suppliers to ensure competitive pricing. While we have not generally been dependent upon any one supply source, we currently have only one supplier for certain component parts as a result of consolidation in the defense industry. We believe these single source suppliers, as well as our overall supplier base, are adequate to meet our foreseeable needs. We have mitigated some supply risk by negotiating long-term agreements with certain raw material suppliers. In addition, we have mitigated price risk related to raw material purchases through certain contractual arrangements with customers. Regulatory Matters We operate in heavily regulated markets and must comply with a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts, as well as legal and regulatory requirements relating to cyber security, environmental protection, and our nuclear operations. Government contracting requirements increase our contract performance costs and compliance costs and risks. See Risk Factors in Item 1A. Government Contracting We are overseen and audited by the U.S. Government and its agencies, including the U.S. Navy's Supervisor of Shipbuilding, the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"), and the Defense Contract Management Agency ("DCMA"). These agencies evaluate our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to U.S. Government requirements. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. Certain U.S. Government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. Government contracts or the loss of export privileges. Our business systems subject to audit or review include our accounting systems, purchasing systems, government property management systems, estimating systems, earned value management systems, and material management accounting systems. The U.S. Government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in one or more of our business systems. The U.S. Government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies exist with one or more of our business systems. Although this has not materially impacted the timing of our cash receipts in the past, any such action by the U.S. Government in the future could have a material impact on the timing of our cash receipts. The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based upon performance. In the event of termination of a contract for convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and profit on incurred costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. A termination resulting from our default could expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could have a material effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. Our contracts with the U.S. Government sometimes result in Requests for Equitable Adjustments ("REAs"), which represent requests for the U.S. Government to make appropriate adjustments to contract terms, including pricing, delivery schedule, technical requirements, or other affected terms, due to changes in the original contract requirements and resulting delays and disruption in contract performance for which the U.S. Government is responsible. We submit and negotiate REAs in the ordinary course of business, and large REAs are not uncommon 5 at the conclusion of both new construction and RCOH activities. REAs can result in claims under the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, in cases in which we cannot reach agreement with the U.S. Government. U.S. Government regulations determine contractor costs that are allowable and therefore recoverable from the government, and certain costs are not allowable and therefore not recoverable. The U.S. Government also regulates the methods by which allowable costs, including overhead, are allocated to government contracts. Costs we incur that are not allowable under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (the FAR ) or U.S. Cost Accounting Standards ( CAS ) or that are otherwise determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if already reimbursed. Our business, including contracts with U.S. Government agencies and subcontracts with other prime contractors, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the FAR, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement ("DFARS"), the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the False Claims Act, CAS, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A noncompliance determination by a government agency may result in reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations, penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment. We are also subject to evolving cyber security and data privacy and protection laws and regulations, which increase our costs and compliance risks and may affect our competitiveness, cause reputational harm, and expose us to damage claims, substantial fines, and other penalties. Nuclear Our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, the DoE, and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. In addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, the DoE, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the U.S. Navy and the DoE generally provide for indemnity by the U.S. Government for losses resulting from our nuclear operations. For our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators for risk mitigation, and we maintain limited insurance coverage for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. Environmental Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several "strict liability" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations impose liability upon a party for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties. We accrue estimated costs to perform environmental remediation when we determine it is probable we will incur expenses in the future, in amounts we can reasonably estimate, to address environmental conditions at currently or formerly owned or leased operating facilities, or at sites where we are named a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") or similarly designated by another environmental agency. Uncertainties regarding the extent of required remediation, determination of legally responsible parties, and the status of laws and regulations and their interpretations make future environmental remediation costs difficult to estimate and can cause our estimated remediation costs to change. We believe we are in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and historical environmental compliance costs have not been material to our business. We could be affected by new environmental laws or regulations, including any laws and regulations enacted in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. We have made investments we believe are necessary to comply with environmental legal requirements, but we expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations. We do not currently believe such costs will have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 6 Competitive Environment In our business of designing, building, overhauling, and repairing military ships, we primarily compete with General Dynamics and, in the case of certain non-nuclear shipbuilding programs, smaller shipyards. The smaller shipyards sometimes team with large defense contractors. Intense competition related to programs, resources, funding, and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both our shipbuilding business and the shipbuilding defense industry in general. It is common industry practice to share work on major programs among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another party, become a subcontractor for the prime contracting party. It is not uncommon to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, serve as a supplier to or a customer of such competitor on other contracts. The nature of major defense programs, conducted under binding long-term contracts, allows comp