Item 1. Business Honeywell International Inc. ( Honeywell or the Company ) invents and commercializes technologies that address some of the world s most critical challenges around energy, safety, security, air travel, productivity and global urbanization. As a diversified technology and manufacturing company, we are uniquely positioned to blend physical products with software to serve customers worldwide with aerospace products and services, energy efficient products and solutions for businesses, specialty chemicals, electronic and advanced materials, process technology for refining and petrochemicals, and productivity, sensing, safety and security technologies for buildings and industries. Our products and solutions enable a safer, more comfortable and more productive world, enhancing the quality of life of people around the globe. Honeywell was incorporated in Delaware in 1985. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website (www.honeywell.com) under the heading Investors (see SEC Filings and Reports) immediately after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company incorporates by reference certain information from parts of its Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with the SEC on or about March 12, 2020 , and which will also be available free of charge on our website. Major Businesses We globally manage our business operations through four segments: Aerospace, Honeywell Building Technologies, Performance Materials and Technologies, and Safety and Productivity Solutions. Financial information related to our segments is included in Note 22 Segment Financial Data of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The major products/services, including Honeywell Forge solutions supported by Honeywell Connected Enterprise ("HCE"), customers/uses and key competitors of each of our segments are: Aerospace Aerospace is a leading global supplier of products, software and services for aircrafts that it sells to original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and other customers in a variety of end markets including: air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft, airlines, aircraft operators and defense and space contractors. Aerospace products and services include auxiliary power units, propulsion engines, environmental control systems, integrated avionics, wireless connectivity services, electric power systems, engine controls, flight safety, communications, navigation hardware, data and software applications, radar and surveillance systems, aircraft lighting, management and technical services, advanced systems and instruments, satellite and space components, aircraft wheels and brakes, repair and overhaul services and thermal systems. Aerospace also provides spare parts, repair, overhaul and maintenance services (principally to aircraft operators) for the aftermarket. Honeywell Forge solutions are designed to identify and resolve problems faster, making fleet management and flight operations more efficient. Honeywell Building Technologies Honeywell Building Technologies is a leading global provider of products, software, solutions and technologies that enable building owners and occupants to ensure their facilities are safe, energy efficient, sustainable and productive. Honeywell Building Technologies products and services include advanced software applications for building control and optimization; sensors, switches, control systems and instruments for energy management; access control; video surveillance; fire products; remote patient monitoring systems; and installation, maintenance and upgrades of systems. Honeywell Forge solutions are designed to digitally manage buildings to use space intelligently, cut operating expenses and reduce maintenance. 1 Performance Materials and Technologies Performance Materials and Technologies is a global leader in developing and manufacturing high-quality performance chemicals and materials, process technologies and automation solutions, including Honeywell Forge connected solutions. The segment comprises Process Solutions, UOP and Advanced Materials. Process Solutions provides automation control, instrumentation, advanced software and related services for the oil and gas, refining, pulp and paper, industrial power generation, chemicals and petrochemicals, biofuels, life sciences, and metals, minerals and mining industries. Through its smart energy products, Process Solutions enables utilities and distribution companies to deploy advanced capabilities to improve operations, reliability and environmental sustainability. UOP provides process technology, products, including catalysts and adsorbents, equipment, and consulting services that enable customers to efficiently produce gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, petrochemicals and renewable fuels for the petroleum refining, gas processing, petrochemical, and other industries. Advanced Materials manufactures a wide variety of high-performance products, including materials used to manufacture end products such as bullet-resistant armor, nylon, computer chips and pharmaceutical packaging, and provides reduced and low global-warming-potential (GWP) materials based on hydrofluoro-olefin technology. In the industrial environment, Honeywell Forge solutions enable integration and connectivity to provide a holistic view of operations and turn data into clear actions to maximize productivity and efficiency. Honeywell Forge's cybersecurity capabilities help identify risks and act on cyber-related incidents, together enabling improved operations and protecting processes, people and assets. Safety and Productivity Solutions Safety and Productivity Solutions is a leading global provider of products and software that improve productivity, workplace safety and asset performance to customers around the globe. Safety products include personal protection equipment, apparel, gear, and footwear designed for work, play and outdoor activities; gas detection technology; and cloud-based notification and emergency messaging. Productivity Solutions products and services include mobile devices and software for computing, data collection and thermal printing; supply chain and warehouse automation equipment, software and solutions; custom-engineered sensors, switches and controls for sensing and productivity solutions; and software-based data and asset management productivity solutions. Honeywell Forge solutions digitally automate processes to improve efficiency while reducing downtime and safety costs. Competition We are subject to competition in substantially all product and service areas. Some of our key competitors are: Aerospace: Garmin, Safran, Thales, and United Technologies Honeywell Building Technologies: Johnson Controls, Schneider Electric, Siemens and United Technologies Performance Materials and Technologies: Albemarle, BASF, Dupont, Emerson Electric, Schneider Electric, Siemens, Sinopec and Yokogawa Safety and Productivity Solutions: 3M, Kion Group, Mine Safety Appliances (MSA), TE Connectivity, and Zebra Technologies Our businesses compete on a variety of factors such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. Many of our competitors have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of OEMs. U.S. Government Sales Sales to the U.S. Government (principally by Aerospace), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,057 million, $3,403 million and $3,203 million in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , which included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,491 million, $2,832 million and $2,546 million in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . We do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2020 federal defense spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (OEMs production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs), as well as our diversified commercial businesses. 2 International Operations We engage in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development (R D) globally. U.S. exports and non-U.S. manufactured products are significant to our operations. U.S. exports comprised 15% of our total sales in 2019 , 13% in 2018 and 12% in 2017 . Non-U.S. manufactured products and services, mainly in Europe and Asia, were 40% of our total sales in 2019 , 43% in 2018 and 44% in 2017 . Manufactured Products and Systems and Performance of Services Year Ended December 31, 2019 Aerospace Honeywell Building Technologies Performance Materials and Technologies Safety and Productivity Solutions (% of Segment Sales) U.S. Exports 25 % 2 % 16 % 2 % Non-U.S. manufactured/services 19 % 64 % 56 % 41 % Information related to risks attendant to our foreign operations is included in