ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 16 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 61 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 61 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 61 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 62 ITEM 6. [ REMOVED AND RESERVED] 64 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 65 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 87 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 88 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 138 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 138 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 139 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTION S THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 139 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 140 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 140 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNER AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 140 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 140 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 140 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 141 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 141 SIGNATURES 145 1 Table of Co ntents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) of Robinhood Markets, Inc (together with its subsidiaries, we , Robinhood , or the Company ) contains forward-looking statements (as such phrase is used in the federal securities laws), which involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as believe, may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplate, estimate, predict, potential or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. This Annual Report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding: our expectations for headcount growth and the projects on which the additional employees will be staffed; our preparations for a full launch of crypto wallet transfers later in the first quarter of 2022; our expectations regarding legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations; our plan to attract new customers to accelerate our growth by continuing to introduce new products and features and by continuing to invest in broad-scale brand marketing and the Robinhood Referral Program (defined below), and our expectation that our efforts will drive higher brand awareness and increase customer adoption of our platform; our intent to continue investing in our platform capabilities and regulatory and compliance functions; our expectation that as our customer base and platform functionalities expand, areas of investment priority will likely include product innovation, educational content, and technology and infrastructure improvements; and our belief that these investments will contribute to our long-term growth; our belief that as our customers grow their wealth, they will continue to expand their relationship with our platform, providing an increased opportunity to meet their growing financial needs; our belief that there is a significant opportunity for Robinhood to grow internationally; our intent to pursue a disciplined approach to international expansion; our plan to consider factors such as population size and demographics, legal and regulatory environments, and general investing attitudes in potential new markets when pursuing such expansion; our intent to expand our international hiring to gain access to a larger talent pool, as well as to support our international service offerings; and our aggressive goals to open our crypto platform up to new customers internationally in 2022; our expectations about continued growth through acquisitions; and our expectations about meeting our current liquidity needs for the next 12 months and our long-term liquidity needs. Our forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that may cause our actual future results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in this Annual Report. Reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Factors that contribute to the uncertain nature of our forward-looking statements include, among others: our limited operating history; 2 Table of Co ntents the difficulty of managing rapid growth and the risk of declining or negative growth; the fluctuations in our financial results and key metrics from quarter to quarter; our reliance on transaction-based revenue, including payment for order flow ( PFOF ), and the risk of new regulation or bans on PFOF and similar practices; the difficulty of raising additional capital (to satisfy any liquidity needs and support business growth and objectives) on reasonable terms or at all; the need to maintain capital levels required by regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the risk that we might mishandle the cash, securities, and cryptocurrencies we hold on behalf of customers, and our exposure to liability for operational errors in clearing functions; the impact of negative publicity on our brand and reputation; the risk that changes in business, economic, or political conditions, or systemic market events, might harm our business; our dependence on key employees and a skilled workforce; the difficulty of complying with an extensive and complex regulatory environment and the need to adjust our business model in response to new or modified laws and regulations; the possibility of adverse developments in pending litigation and regulatory investigations; the effects of competition; our need to innovate and invest in new products and services in order to attract and retain customers and deepen their engagement with us in order to maintain growth; our reliance on third parties to perform some key functions and the risk that operational or technological failures could impair the availability or stability of our platform; the risk of cybersecurity incidents, theft, data breaches, and other online attacks; the difficulty of processing customer data in compliance with privacy laws; our need as a regulated financial services company to develop and maintain effective compliance and risk management infrastructures; the volatility of cryptocurrency prices and trading volumes; and the risk that substantial future sales of Class A common shares in the public market could cause the price of our stock to fall. Because some of these risks and uncertainties cannot be predicted or quantified and some are beyond our control, you should not rely on our forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. More information about potential risks and uncertainties that could affect our business and financial results is included in the section of this Annual Report titled Risk Factors and our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), which are available on the SEC s web site at www.sec.gov. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risks and uncertainties may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks nor identify all uncertainties. The events and circumstances reflected in our forward-looking statements might not be achieved and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise noted, all forward-looking statements are made as of the date we file this Annual 3 Table of Co ntents Report, and are based on information and estimates available to us at this time. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, performance, or achievements. Except as required by law, Robinhood assumes no obligation to update any of the statements in this Annual Report whether as a result of any new information, future events, changed circumstances, or otherwise. You should read this Annual Report with the understanding that our actual future results, performance, events, and circumstances might be materially different from what we expect. 4 Table of Co ntents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Robinhood was founded in 2013 on the belief that everyone should be welcome to participate in our financial system. We are creating a modern financial services platform for everyone, regardless of their wealth, income, or background. Our mission is to democratize finance for all. We use mobile technology to provide access to the financial system in a way that is simple and convenient for our customers. We believe investing should be familiar and welcoming, with a simple design and an intuitive interface, so that customers are empowered to achieve their goals. We started with a revolutionary, bold brand and design, and the Robinhood app now makes investing approachable for millions. We pioneered commission-free stock trading with no account minimums, which the rest of the industry emulated, and we have continued to build relationships with our customers by introducing new products that further expand access to the financial system. Through these efforts, we believe we have made investing culturally relevant and understandable, and that our platform is enabling our customers to become long-term investors and take greater control of their finances. At Robinhood, our values are in service of our customers. The following values describe the company that we aspire to become. Safety First. Robinhood is a safety-first company. The reliability of our platform takes precedence over all else, so that we can be there for our customers when they need us the most. We relentlessly protect our customers security and privacy, and we only share with our counterparties what they need to fulfill our customers financial needs, nothing more. We build safeguards and provide education so that our customers are in the best position to succeed. We have high-quality timely customer support, and when things aren t right, we fix them. We work closely with regulators and lawmakers to protect our customers and the broader financial system. We speak simply, plainly, and truthfully, even if it s not what others want to hear. We hold ourselves and our colleagues to the highest ethical standards. Participation Is Power . We aim to give everyone access to the financial system, regardless of their background or bank account balance. We reflect the world around us, and we elevate and embrace all voices so everyone feels at home at Robinhood. Radical Customer Focus . We exist to make our customers happy. From the early days of Robinhood, we have prioritized getting direct customer feedback on what we were building. Talking to our customers forms the kernel of the product development process we have today. We listen with empathy, ask questions, and critically evaluate our work by how valuable our customers find it. We never stop asking how we can make our product better, and we never settle for good enough . We listen to our colleagues, and we start from a place of believing they are capable and well-intentioned. We delight our customers and take pride in our work. First-Principles Thinking . We make bold bets and challenge the status quo. Our foundation is in art, science, and pure mathematics, and we have a deep appreciation for the scientific process. We develop hypotheses and design experiments to test them. We reduce complex problems to their constituent bits. We debate vigorously and change our minds when confronted with the right evidence. We bravely do what s right, even when it hasn t been done before. We treat our company like a product and aim to get better, every single day. 5 Table of Co ntents We understand that millions of our customers are using Robinhood to enter the financial markets for the first time, and we take our responsibility to them seriously. We pursue strong, close working relationships with our regulators, and we believe the goals of our regulators and customers are aligned. We are passionate about operating Robinhood in a way that aligns with customer interests, applicable regulations, and with our own mission to democratize finance for all. We plan to create an ecosystem of financial products and services that will enable people across the world to become investors. We believe the products on our roadmap will go a long way toward making that a reality. Our Products We believe our products can transform the relationship people have with the financial system. We began by offering our customers the ability to buy and sell equities on a mobile-first platform and have since continued to expand our offerings to add products and features for our customers. Each capability we have added has been the result of a continuous focus on our customers needs and feedback, which has guided our product development decisions throughout our history. The core tenet of the Robinhood offering expanding access to our financial system through products that empower people to learn, participate, and grow underpins each of our offerings. We remain focused on building the best products and ultimately aim to serve all of our customers financial needs. Investing Solutions Our platform allows our customers to invest commission-free in U.S.-listed stocks and exchange traded funds ( ETFs ), as well as related options and American Depository Receipts all from their smartphones. We believe we have designed an elegant, intuitive investing interface that provides our customers with trading functionality and market information such as historical prices, valuation multiples, recent news, analyst ratings, and more. Stock and ETF trading is immediately available following our simple account onboarding process and funding. We review eligibility for our customers who wish to trade options, including disclosure of investment experience and knowledge, investment objectives and financial information. Subject to approval from Robinhood, customers can access basic options strategies (Level 2), which permits buying calls and puts and selling covered calls and puts, or more advanced options strategies (Level 3), which permits fixed-risk spreads (such as credit spreads and iron condors) and other advanced trading strategies, depending on their individually disclosed preparedness. We conduct regular reviews of our customers eligibility and take action to revoke access to trading options as appropriate, to ensure our customers are accessing the level of options strategies that are appropriate for them based on information such as their trading experience, investment objectives and financial situation. As we have built out our offerings, we have also added features to help our customers diversify their investments and give them greater access to financial products regardless of their portfolio size: Fractional shares . Fractional share trading allows customers to invest in fractions of a share of stock, rather than requiring them to buy and sell whole shares. This service enables customers to build a diversified portfolio regardless of their budget and removes a barrier to investing in higher-priced stocks, thereby providing access to a much greater selection of equities with as little as $1. Recurring investments. Our recurring investment feature enables our customers to automatically buy shares of equities and certain ETFs on a set schedule, allowing them to build positions over time and establish regular investing habits, even with small contributions. Our customers can also elect to automatically reinvest dividend income back into the underlying respective shares. IPO Access . Our IPO Access feature enables our customers to buy shares in participating initial public offerings ( IPOs ) at the IPO price, before trading begins on public exchanges. With IPO Access, our customers can participate with no account minimums. In November 2021, we also 6 Table of Co ntents launched our Directed Share Program ( DSP ) through IPO Access service that gives an issuing company the chance to set aside a certain amount of shares, at the IPO price, for a specific group of people. This group usually includes employees, valued customers, vendors, or others who have a relationship with the issuer. ACATS-in. Robinhood supports the Automated Customer Account Transfer Service ( ACATS ), an automated industry system for account asset transfers, including inbound and outbound transfers. The ACATS-in feature allows our customers to transfer assets from other brokerages into Robinhood instead of selling the assets in the external account and then re-purchasing them in the Robinhood account. This feature was offered to a small set of customers in late December 2021 and was made available to all customers in the first quarter 2022. Robinhood Crypto We offer commission-free cryptocurrency trading using the same intuitive, mobile interface as our broader Investing Solutions platform. We have expanded our coverage to include every U.S. state and the District of Columbia, except for Hawaii and Nevada, and support trading in seven different cryptocurrencies: Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Bitcoin SV, Dogecoin, Ethereum, Ethereum Classic and Litecoin. In addition, we support real-time market data for nine cryptocurrencies, which is available to all customers. We offer crypto recurring investments, allowing customers to automatically buy crypto, commission-free, on a schedule of their choice. This feature allows customers to build positions in their favorite cryptocurrencies over time. We also offer Crypto Gifts, which enables customers to gift crypto to family, friends, and others. We continue to invest in our cryptocurrency trading offering, evaluating new features and product capabilities as the cryptocurrency landscape develops. During the third quarter of 2021, we opened a waitlist to enroll for crypto wallet transfers ( Crypto Wallets ). Crypto Wallets have been one of the most heavily requested features by Robinhood customers. This feature will enable customers to transfer supported cryptocurrencies into and out of their Robinhood accounts. This means customers can consolidate their coins into one account so it s easier to track their portfolio and trade those coins commission-free. Robinhood s Crypto Wallets feature is designed to help make crypto more accessible for the average investor, with an intuitive user experience, low-cost, and competitive pricing. We have successfully completed alpha program launch and public user onboarding of Crypto Wallets and have launched a public beta, which will continue to provide insights as we prepare for a full launch of wallets later in the first quarter of 2022. Robinhood Gold Robinhood Gold is a monthly subscription service that grants subscribers access to a number of premium features. After the initial 30-day free trial, subscribers pay a flat monthly rate. Our premium features offered to Gold subscribers include: Enhanced instant access to deposits. Subscribers can instantly access $5,000 to $50,000 upon making a deposit, depending on their portfolio value. Professional research. Subscribers have unlimited access to in-depth stock research reports on approximately 1,000 stocks through Morningstar. Nasdaq Level II market data. Subscribers have the ability to see greater depth of orders for any given stock or option. The ability to see multiple buy and sell requests helps subscribers understand the availability or desire for a stock at a certain price. Access to investing on margin. Subject to approval upon meeting eligibility criteria set by Robinhood, subscribers can invest on margin at highly competitive interest rates. This allows 7 Table of Co ntents eligible subscribers to borrow a limited amount of funds, depending on account size, to use as additional investing capital. No interest is charged on the first $1,000 in margin borrowed by each user. If the subscriber chooses to borrow more funds, the subscriber will be charged interest, which interest is calculated daily and charged to the subscriber s account at the end of each billing cycle . Robinhood decides whether to extend margin to each customer who applies for access based on information regarding customer activity, portfolio equity or net worth criteria, investment objectives, and investing experience reported by the customer. Cash Management Our Cash Management product is available on our platform for customers with a Robinhood brokerage account. It provides additional value to our brokerage customers by allowing them to earn interest on idle cash swept to our partner banks and to spend cash through an optional Robinhood-branded Mastercard debit card. There are no maintenance fees or minimum balances, no overdraft fees, no transfer fees, no foreign transaction fees, and no monthly fees. Our customers are able to fund their accounts through either a bank transfer or direct deposit and have free access to their funds from over 75,000 ATMs. Our customers who opt in to Cash Management elect to participate in a deposit sweep program and will have their uninvested cash automatically swept, or moved, into deposits at a network of program banks. Through Cash Management, cash deposited at these banks is eligible for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insurance. Learning Education Solutions Investing, while an opportunity to partake in the broader financial ecosystem, can be complex and confusing for those who are new to it. While we do not provide investment advice to our customers, we are committed to helping our customers build sustainable, long-term financial habits and to offering a variety of contextual in-app educational tools and resources to help them achieve their goals and maximize their financial well-being, including: Robinhood Snacks . Snacks is a curated digest of business news stories delivered both daily and weekly. Snacks can be accessed in written, audio or video formats, including via a podcast and newsletter, and allows subscribers to start their days with the top business news of the day in an accessible, digestible format. During the third quarter of 2021, we also launched Snacks on Snapchat, making Snacks one of the first financially-oriented educational channels to ever be made available on Snapchat s Discover tab. Robinhood Learn . We aim to make finance not only more accessible, but more understandable as well. Robinhood Learn is a collection of articles, including guides, tutorials and an extensive financial dictionary available to anyone. It is designed to provide everyone with access to a breadth of financial education, and is frequently updated to provide relevant information for our customers to learn and grow. Newsfeeds . Within our newsfeeds, we provide access to free premium news from sites such as Barron s , Reuters and The Wall Street Journal to keep our customers informed of the latest news and events. Robinhood lists and alerts . Our customers are able to create custom watchlists and alerts to monitor equities, options, ETFs, or cryptocurrencies they are interested in following. First trade recommendations . We offer first trade recommendations to all new customers who have yet to place a trade, helping users get started with a diversified ETF portfolio based on their risk profile and investment objectives. 8 Table of Co ntents Our Technology The Robinhood mobile app is the core front-end pathway through which our customers engage with us. Our self-clearing platform, order routing system, data platform, and other back-end infrastructure deliver the capabilities that allow our customers to focus on investing, saving and spending, while also enabling us to rapidly develop products that our customers love to use. Some of our most critical technologies include: Core infrastructure and data platform. Our core infrastructure and data platform are all built on Amazon Web Services, and our platform enables application developers to define their microservices in a simple, standardized manner while also providing built-in scalability and resiliency. Self-clearing system. Our self-clearing services allow us to clear and settle trades across stocks, ETFs, and options without relying on a third-party clearing firm, an approach that provides increased internal visibility over clearing and settlement. Order routing system. We built a proprietary order routing system that uses statistical models to evaluate past orders and execution quality data, and automatically routes customer orders to the market makers that have historically given customers the best prices. This competition-based system creates an incentive for market makers to provide better prices for our customers, in order to receive more orders in the future. We are committed to seeking a quality execution on every order, and our routing protocols are designed with this in mind. Machine learning platform. Our machine learning models are highly advanced and contribute to multiple capabilities across our business. For example, we use machine learning as part of our fraud detection systems and customer support workflows, and even to improve the customer experience in our newsfeed by expanding the number of sources we can pull from, parsing and categorizing these articles, and delivering highly relevant and varied news to our customers for companies, stocks, or cryptocurrencies. Experiments infrastructure. To enable our rapid product cycle, we ve built a proprietary experiments infrastructure that enables us to test product changes through the build process and validate research hypotheses. The iterative, customer-centric product development approach that is so core to our success is enabled by this robust internal technology. Our Customers We are empowering a new generation of financial consumers. Robinhood was built to make the financial system more friendly, approachable, and understandable to newcomers and experts alike. We have reached customers across the United States from a wide variety of social and economic backgrounds and many of our customers funding accounts on our platform told us that Robinhood was their first brokerage account. We take pride in the fact that we are expanding the market by welcoming new investors into the financial system and helping the next generation of investors build sound long-term investing, saving, and spending habits. Customer feedback is at the heart of product development at Robinhood. As such, we regularly communicate with our customers not just to provide support, but also to learn more about their experiences and insights, and to respond to their feedback about our products. This keeps us connected with customers and enables us to understand their expectations and the problems and opportunities they face financially. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we launched 24/7 live phone support for all logged-in users, giving customers the ability to get phone support at any time and on any topic. We are also the first major crypto platform to provide 24/7 phone support. 9 Table of Co ntents Our Growth Strategies We aim to serve our customers with existing product offerings, grow with our customers over time as they build their wealth, and create new and innovative products that are relevant to new and existing customers. Continue Adding New Customers to Our Platform We are simplifying how people interact with financial products, allowing new customers from all walks of life and generations to participate in the financial system. We have achieved our growth with relatively little investment in traditional sales and marketing efforts, although we have done substantial in-market testing to determine how to most efficiently utilize paid channels. We plan to increase our brand marketing in the future and anticipate that our marketing efforts will drive higher brand awareness that can further accelerate our growth. Our brand has faced challenges in recent years, including as a result of, among other things, the March 2020 Outages, the April-May 2021 Disruptions, and the Early 2021 Trading Restrictions (each defined below), as well as criticism regarding the complexity of our options trading offerings and related concerns about limited customer support and controversial customer communications and displays. We have taken these concerns seriously and have prioritized developing responsive solutions, such as by reinforcing our platform infrastructure, raising additional capital to cushion ourselves against the potential for future increased collateral requirements and related market stress, expanding our investor education resources, adding additional eligibility criteria for our options authorization, more than doubling the number of customer support professionals we employ, introducing phone-based voice customer support, and redesigning some of our customer display features. We are determined to keep evolving to better serve our customer base. Growing with Our Customers Many of our customers are just beginning their financial journeys. As our customers grow their wealth, we believe they will continue to expand their relationship with our platform, providing an increased opportunity to meet their growing financial needs. We believe that these needs may come in a number of forms, from helping new investors grow into long-term investors to providing other financial services such as saving, spending, or facilitating payments. The younger generation is poised to see its wealth expand in the coming years and participation in the markets will provide a critical opportunity as younger customers grow their assets and 