ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 75 ITEM 1C. CY BERSECU RITY 75 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 77 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 77 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 77 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 78 ITEM 6. [REMOVED AND RESERVED] 79 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 80 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 100 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 102 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES 159 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 159 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 160 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 160 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 161 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 161 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNER AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 161 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 161 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 161 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 162 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 162 SIGNATURES 167 1 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this Annual Report ) of Robinhood Markets, Inc ( RHM and, together with its subsidiaries, we , Robinhood , or the Company ) contains forward-looking statements (as such phrase is used in the federal securities laws), which involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as believe, may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplate, estimate, predict, potential , or continue or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. This Annual Report includes, among others, forward-looking statements regarding: our expectations regarding legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations; our plans to keep investing in mobile and continue to innovate for our active traders as well as to keep investing in our existing products and features while also launching new products like credit cards; our belief that as our customers grow their wealth, they will continue to expand their relationship with our platform, providing an increased opportunity to meet their growing financial needs; our belief that there is a significant opportunity for Robinhood to grow internationally; our intent to pursue a disciplined approach to international expansion; our plan to consider factors such as population size and demographics, legal and regulatory environments, and general investing attitudes and the competitive landscape in potential new markets when pursuing such expansion; our expectations about adapting our product and service offerings to reflect local regulatory requirements, customer preferences, and other location-specific factors when pursuing such expansion; and our expectations about the sufficiency of our primary sources of liquidity being adequate to meet our current liquidity needs for the next 12 months. Our forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that may cause our actual future results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied in this Annual Report. Reported results should not be considered an indication of future performance. Factors that contribute to the uncertain nature of our forward-looking statements include, among others: our limited operating experience at our current scale; the difficulty of managing our business effectively, including the size of our workforce, and the risk of continued declining or negative growth; the fluctuations in our financial results and key metrics from quarter to quarter; our reliance on transaction-based revenue, including payment for order flow ( PFOF ), and the risk of new regulation or bans on PFOF and similar practices; our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and rapidly changing interest rate environments; the difficulty of raising additional capital (to provide liquidity needs and support business growth and objectives) on reasonable terms, if at all; 2 Table of Contents the need to maintain capital levels required by regulators and self-regulatory organizations ( SROs ); the risk that we might mishandle the cash, securities, and cryptocurrencies we hold on behalf of customers, and our exposure to liability for processing, operational, or technical errors in clearing functions; the impact of negative publicity on our brand and reputation; the risk that changes in business, economic, or political conditions that impact the global financial markets, or a systemic market event, might harm our business; our dependence on key employees and a skilled workforce; the difficulty of complying with an extensive, complex, and changing regulatory environment and the need to adjust our business model in response to new or modified laws and regulations; the possibility of adverse developments in pending litigation and regulatory investigations; the effects of competition; our need to innovate and invest in new products, services, technologies and geographies in order to attract and retain customers and deepen their engagement with us in order to maintain growth; our reliance on third parties to perform some key functions and the risk that processing, operational or technological failures could impair the availability or stability of our platform; the risk of cybersecurity incidents, theft, data breaches, and other online attacks; the difficulty of processing customer data in compliance with privacy laws; our need as a regulated financial services company to develop and maintain effective compliance and risk management infrastructures; the risks associated with incorporating artificial intelligence ( AI ) technologies into some of our products and processes; the volatility of cryptocurrency prices and trading volumes; the risk that our platform could be exploited to facilitate illegal payments; and the risk that substantial future sales of Class A common shares in the public market, or the perception that they may occur, could cause the price of our stock to fall. Because some of these risks and uncertainties cannot be predicted or quantified and some are beyond our control, you should not rely on our forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. More information about potential risks and uncertainties that could affect our business and financial results is included in the section of this Annual Report titled Risk Factors and our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), which are available on the SEC s web site at www.sec.gov. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risks and uncertainties may emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks nor identify all uncertainties. The events and circumstances reflected in our forward-looking statements might not be achieved and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise noted, all forward-looking statements are made as of the date we file this Annual Report, and are based on information and estimates available to us at this time. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, performance, or achievements. Except as required by law, Robinhood assumes no obligation to 3 Table of Contents update any of the statements in this Annual Report whether as a result of any new information, future events, changed circumstances, or otherwise. You should read this Annual Report with the understanding that our actual future results, performance, events, and circumstances might be materially different from what we expect. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Robinhood was founded in 2013 on the belief that everyone should be welcome to participate in our financial system. We are creating a modern financial services platform for everyone, regardless of their wealth, income, or background. Our mission is to democratize finance for all. We use technology to provide access to the financial system in a way that is simple and convenient for our customers. We believe investing should be familiar and welcoming, with a simple design and an intuitive interface, so that customers are empowered to achieve their goals. We started with a revolutionary, bold brand and design in the Robinhood app which makes investing approachable for millions. We pioneered commission-free stock trading with no account minimums, which has since been adopted by the rest of the industry, and we continue to build relationships with our customers by introducing new products that further expand access to the financial system. Through these efforts, we believe we have made investing culturally relevant and understandable, and that our platform is enabling our customers to become long-term investors and take greater control of their finances. At Robinhood, our values are in service of our customers. The following values describe the company that we aspire to become: Safety First. Robinhood is a safety first company. Period. We create with care, make changes thoughtfully, and we obsess over details. We don t compromise regulatory requirements to move fast, and when we see something amiss, we move quickly to correct it. We take risks responsibly with safety as the foundation of innovation. Radical Customer Focus . Customers are at the center of our company. We listen to them, design for their needs, and aim to make our user experience simple and intuitive. We put what s best for customers at the center of decision-making. When there are customer pain points, we fix them quickly. Participation Is Power . We empower a new generation of investors. We seek to enable everyone to participate in the financial system and we deliver products to help them accomplish their long-term financial goals. We educate and empower our customers and strive to make the financial industry more inclusive. We were founded on the ideal that the rich shouldn t get a better deal, so we treat people fairly and strive to deliver exceptional value. One Robinhood. We re all invested in the same mission. We earn the trust of our colleagues by being honest, inclusive, and transparent. We invite diverse perspectives, support each other, and engage in lively but kind debate in pursuit of our path forward. When decisions are made we move in unison with an ownership mentality. We hold ourselves accountable but never point the finger or evade responsibility, and we treat everyone with respect and grace. High Performance. Our first instinct is to take action. We strive for improvement and push for progress; and when something is broken, we fix it. We are driven by impact and constantly go after big opportunities. We are making Robinhood a place people want to be by investing in our employees, leveraging diverse perspectives, and rewarding top performance. 5 Table of Contents First-Principles Thinking . We are inventors, dreamers, and problem solvers. We question assumptions and seek creative solutions rather than just following the crowd. We use data and experiments to inform our decisions, but we also make bold bets, challenge the status quo, and are often a first mover. And ultimately, we bravely do what s right even when it s scary and hasn t been done before. Lean and Disciplined. We do more with less. We pursue operational excellence so that we can deliver exceptional value to customers. We set ambitious goals, monitor progress, and regularly benchmark our performance to increase efficiency and effectiveness. We are respectful of each other s time, so when we change course we do so intentionally after weighing the tradeoffs. Our Products And Features We understand that millions of our customers have used Robinhood to enter the financial markets for the first time, and we take our responsibility to them seriously. We are passionate about operating Robinhood in a way that aligns with customer interests, applicable regulations, and with our own mission to democratize finance for all. We plan to create an ecosystem of financial products and services that will enable people across the world to become investors. We believe the products on our roadmap will go a long way toward making that a reality. We believe our products can transform the relationship people have with the financial system. We began by offering our customers the ability to buy and sell equities on a mobile-first platform and have since continued to expand our offerings to add products and features for our customers. Each capability we have added has been the result of a continuous focus on our customers needs and feedback, which has guided our product development decisions throughout our history. The core tenet of the Robinhood offering expanding access to our financial system through products that empower people to learn, participate, and grow underpins each of our offerings. We remain focused on building the best products and ultimately aim to serve all of our customers financial needs. Brokerage Investing . Our platform allows our customers to invest commission-free in U.S.-listed stocks and exchange traded funds ( ETFs ), as well as related options and American Depository Receipts ( ADR ). We believe we have designed an elegant, intuitive investing interface that provides our customers with trading functionality and market information such as historical prices, valuation multiples, recent news, analyst ratings, and more. We also launched advanced charts, which gives customers customizable, quick, simple and in-depth analysis right in the app. Options Trading. We review eligibility for our customers who wish to trade options, including disclosure of investment experience and knowledge, investment objectives and financial information. Subject to approval from Robinhood, customers can access basic options strategies (Level 2), which permits buying calls and puts and selling covered calls and puts, or more advanced options strategies (Level 3), which permits fixed-risk spreads (such as credit spreads and iron condors) and other advanced trading strategies, depending on their individually disclosed preparedness. We conduct regular reviews of our customers eligibility and take action to revoke access to trading options as appropriate, to ensure our customers are accessing the level of options strategies that are appropriate for them based on information such as their trading experience, investment objectives and financial situation. Fractional Trading . Fractional trading allows customers to invest in fractions of a share of stock, rather than requiring them to buy and sell whole shares. This service enables customers to build a diversified portfolio regardless of their budget and removes a barrier to investing in higher-priced stocks, thereby providing access to a much greater selection of equities with as little as $1. 6 Table of Contents Recurring Investments. Our recurring investment feature enables our customers to automatically buy shares of equities and certain ETFs on a set schedule, allowing them to build positions over time and establish regular investing habits, even with small contributions. Our customers can also elect to automatically reinvest dividend income back into the underlying respective shares. Access to Investing on Margin. Subject to approval upon meeting eligibility criteria set by Robinhood, customers can invest on margin. This allows eligible customers to borrow a limited amount of funds from Robinhood at a floating interest rate to use as additional investing capital. Robinhood decides whether to extend margin to each customer who applies for access based on information regarding customer activity, portfolio equity or net worth criteria, investment objectives, and investing experience reported by the customer. Fully-Paid Securities Lending. Under our Fully-Paid Securities Lending program ( Fully-Paid Securities Lending ), a customer can earn passive income on their stock portfolio once they give Robinhood permission to lend out any fully paid stocks in their portfolio. Robinhood does the work of finding interested borrowers and customers get paid a share of the interest revenue earned when their shares have been loaned to borrowers. Cash Sweep . Our cash sweep program ( Cash Sweep ) provides additional value to our brokerage customers by allowing them to earn interest on uninvested brokerage cash swept to our partner banks. The interest compounds daily and is then paid out by the partner banks monthly, with customers able to track how much they ve earned directly within the app. Cash deposited at these banks is eligible for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insurance. Instant Withdrawals . Our instant withdrawals feature enables eligible customers to withdraw money from their Robinhood accounts and instantly deposit it to their bank accounts or debit cards with a fee. Instant withdrawals are also available to customers of the Robinhood Cash Card and Spending Account (each described below). Robinhood Retirement. We are making it easy and accessible to start saving for retirement through a traditional Individual Retirement Account ( IRA ) or Roth IRA and are expanding options for the growing population of freelance and gig workers without access to employer-based matching programs. Customers eligible contributions to their retirement account can earn a percentage match by Robinhood ( Robinhood Retirement Match ), subject to a five-year holding period. We offer customer IRA instant deposits up to $1,000, which allows customers to immediately start investing. Customers can also get a custom recommended portfolio, build their own, or do both, all commission-free. 24 Hour Market . We are the first U.S. broker to offer around-the-clock trading of individual stocks, 24 hours a day, 5 days a week. We also offer around-the-clock trading of ETFs. It allows our customers to better manage their risk and take advantage of opportunities, no matter what time of day they arise. IPO Access and Directed Share Program . Our IPO Access feature enables our customers, with no account minimums, to buy shares in participating initial public offerings ( IPOs ) at the IPO price, before trading begins on public exchanges. We also offer our Directed Share Program service that gives an issuing company the chance to set aside a certain amount of shares, at the IPO price, for a specific group of people, such as employees, valued customers, vendors, or others who have a relationship with the issuer. 7 Table of Contents Robinhood Crypto United States We offer commission-free cryptocurrency trading in the United States through Robinhood Crypto, LLC ( RHC ). We have expanded our coverage to include every U.S. state and the District of Columbia, except for Hawaii. We currently support trading in the following cryptocurrencies, where available (1) : Aave (AAVE) Avalanche (AVAX)* Bitcoin (BTC) Bitcoin Cash (BCH) Chainlink (LINK) Compound (COMP)* Dogecoin (DOGE) Ethereum (ETH) Ethereum Classic (ETC) Litecoin (LTC) Shiba Inu (SHIB)* Stellar Lumens (XLM)* Tezos (XTZ)* Uniswap (UNI)* USD Stablecoin (USDC)** _______________ (1) Not all cryptocurrencies are available in every state. A single asterisk indicates a cryptocurrency is not currently available for trading in New York. A double asterisk indicates a cryptocurrency is not currently available for trading in New York or Texas. We also offer crypto recurring investments, allowing customers to automatically buy crypto, commission-free, on a schedule of their choice. This feature allows customers to build positions in their favorite cryptocurrencies over time. As an agent, we route all cryptocurrency transactions initiated by customers to third-party market makers. We never act as a counterparty to our users buy or sell transactions. We also offer cryptocurrency transfers ( Crypto Transfers ), allowing customers to transfer cryptocurrency into and out of their RHC accounts without commission, where eligible. Additionally, we provide real-time market data for certain cryptocurrencies, including those that are not supported on RHC s platforms, for informational purposes only. In 2023, we launched Robinhood Connect, a new avenue that allows customers to fund Web3 wallets without the need to leave decentralized applications, or dApps. This avenue also benefits developers by being able to quickly embed the feature directly into their dApps, allowing their customers to use Robinhood Crypto to buy and transfer crypto, and fund their self-custody wallets. European Union As of December 2023, we also offer commission-free cryptocurrency trading in select jurisdictions within the European Union (the EU ) through Robinhood Europe, UAB ( RHEC ) using a separate mobile application that is only available to eligible users in the EU. Eligible users in select jurisdictions in the EU can currently buy, sell, and hold select cryptocurrencies through RHEC. The list of cryptocurrencies supported by RHEC for eligible users in select jurisdictions in the EU is available on our website at https://robinhood.com/eu/en/support/articles/about-robinhood-crypto/ . Custody We hold all settled cryptocurrencies in custody on behalf of customers in two types of wallets: (i) hot wallets, which are managed online, and (ii) cold wallets, which are managed entirely offline. Our wallets store and transfer all the settled digital assets listed above using either private keys through hardware security modules or an architecture combining multi-party computation and hardware security to eliminate a single point of failure. We do not utilize third-party custodians for settled cryptocurrencies, but we do integrate proprietary technology from a third-party industry-standard vendor into the systems we use to support the custody, transfer and settlement operations to our wallets. In general, the overwhelming majority of cryptocurrency coins on our platform are held in cold storage, in facilities located in the United States with physical security systems that we believe are state-of-the-art, though some coins are held in hot wallets to support day-to-day operations. 8 Table of Contents We maintain custody of our customers cryptocurrencies in omnibus wallets on behalf and for the benefit of our customers. Following the purchase of cryptocurrencies from liquidity providers, cryptocurrencies are delivered to the secure omnibus wallet, or in the case of a net sell, cryptocurrencies are moved from such wallet to the liquidity provider s account. We have implemented strict operational protocols and permissions for cryptocurrency movement with our internal operational team to restrict access to customer wallets, and tightly control the movement of cryptocurrencies. More than one person is required to initiate and approve each large transfer, and only a small group of higher-level employees have the necessary privileges to add and authorize new addresses or to release proceeds from wallets. Access to cryptocurrency transfer interfaces is strictly controlled and requires hardware two-factor authentication to log in. To help ensure our security system functions as designed, our systems undergo security audits and are regularly subject to penetration testing. We maintain a ledger of customers ownership and account balances of cryptocurrencies. Additionally, the Company s accounting and crypto operations team has established internal control procedures and maintains records to verify the total quantity of each cryptocurrency we custody for our customers that are held in the omnibus wallets. Such controls are periodically tested by the Company s internal financial compliance team. With the exception of small amounts of cryptocurrency we purchase to support our business operations, we do not hold cryptocurrency for our own account and, therefore, do not commingle cryptocurrencies with those of our users. We do not engage in lending transactions with cryptocurrencies held on behalf of customers. We do not seek to profit from proprietary trading and only facilitate customer transactions. In addition, we have anti-money laundering and insider trading programs intended in part to prevent self-dealing and other potential conflicts of interest, including with respect to our cryptocurrency services. Robinhood Wallet Separately from RHC and RHEC, Robinhood offers a self-custody, web3 wallet (the Robinhood Wallet ) in over 150 countries through our Cayman Islands subsidiary, Robinhood Non-Custodial Ltd. ( RHNC ), that allows customers to deposit and withdraw cryptocurrencies to and from their wallets. Customers can store and manage cryptocurrencies on the Ethereum, Bitcoin, Dogecoin, Polygon, Arbitrum, Optimism and Base networks. The Robinhood Wallet gives customers full control over their cryptocurrencies, which means they hold and maintain the private key to their assets, and does not collect any portion of network or gas fees imposed by the applicable network. The Robinhood Wallet is a software application that users must access via a separate application. Neither RHC nor RHEC custody any Robinhood Wallet assets. Robinhood Gold Our subscription service grants subscribers access to a number of premium features. After an initial 30-day free trial, subscribers pay a flat recurring rate. Our premium features offered to Gold subscribers include: Higher Interest on Cash Sweep. Subscribers can earn a higher interest rate on the cash swept to participating banks compared to users who do not subscribe to Gold. Higher Match on IRA Contribution. Subscribers can earn a higher percentage match of 3% on eligible contributions compared to users who do not subscribe to Gold. Bigger Instant Deposits. Subscribers can immediately access $5,000 to $50,000 of their deposit, depending on their brokerage account balance and status, instantly so they can invest that portion of their deposit right away. 9 Table of Contents Access to Investing on Margin at a More Competitive Interest Rate . Subscribers can invest on margin at a lower rate compared to users who do not subscribe to Gold. No interest is charged on the first $1,000 in margin borrowed by each Robinhood Gold subscriber. Professional Research. Subscribers have unlimited access to in-depth stock research reports provided by Morningstar. Nasdaq Level II Market Data. Subscribers have the ability to see greater depth of orders for any given stock or option. The ability to see multiple buy and sell requests helps subscribers understand the availability or desire for a stock at a certain price. Robinhood Credit Card Our Robinhood Credit Card allows us to provide our customers access to credit. The credit card program is funded under a program agreement ( Program Agreement ) between Robinhood Credit, Inc. ( Robinhood Credit ) (formerly X1 Inc.) and Coastal Community Bank ( Coastal Bank ), a member of the FDIC. There are no annual fees, no late fees, and no foreign transaction fees. The credit card offers rewards on each purchase. Robinhood Cash Card and Spending Account Our Cash Card and Spending Account allows customers to spend with a prepaid spending card ( Robinhood Cash Card ) issued by Sutton Bank ( Sutton ). We offer a variety of features, such as recurring investments, paycheck early access, and a cash back rewards program. There are no monthly fees, no subscription fees, and no account minimum fees. Funds held in Robinhood Cash Card and Spending Account are eligible for FDIC insurance. Education We believe that offering educational resources is critical to advancing our mission. The more financial education people receive, the better equipped, and thus more empowered they will be to make personal investment decisions that meet their long-term goals. We ve been expanding financial educational resources on the Robinhood Learn website for anyone to access as well as in-app education for our customers. We offer a variety of ways for our customers to grow their financial knowledge: Robinhood Learn . Robinhood Learn is an online collection of beginners guides, feature tutorials, and an extensive financial dictionary available to anyone. It is designed to provide people with a breadth of financial education and is regularly updated to ensure we provide timely and relevant information for anyone to learn and grow. In-App Education . Our first in-app education resources cover investing fundamentals including why people invest, a stock market overview, and tips on how to define investing goals. This allows customers to understand the basics of investing before their first trade. We plan to continue to release additional Learn modules to provide customers access to information that can help build financial confidence. Newsfeeds . Our newsfeeds give customers access to free, premium news from sites such as Barron s , Reuters and Dow Jones . Robinhood Snacks . Robinhood Snacks is an accessible digest of business news stories written for a new generation of investors. Its bite-sized news stories bring new investors the latest market-moving news without all of the complicated financial jargon. Building on the success of Robinhood Snacks, we formed Sherwood Media, LLC, a subsidiary that is the home for news and information about the markets, economics, busine