Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 Item 2. Properties 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 30 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 64 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 140 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 140 Item 9B. Other Information 140 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 141 Item 11. Executive Compensation 141 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 141 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 141 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 141 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 142 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Hewlett Packard Enterprise") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. The words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "optimistic", "intend", "aim", "will", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the scope and duration of the novel coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19") and its impact on our business, operations, liquidity and capital resources, employees, customers, partners, supply chain, financial results and the world economy; any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, investments, effective tax rates, interest rates, the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and related guidance or regulations, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources, inventory, goodwill, impairment charges, hedges and derivatives and related offsets, order backlog, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates, repayments of debts including our asset-backed debt securities, or other financial items; the projections, execution, timing and results of any transformation or restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the anticipated benefits, cost savings or charges of implementing the transformation and restructuring plans; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, as well as the execution of corporate transactions or contemplated acquisitions, research and development expenditures, and any resulting benefit, cost savings, charges, or revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; risks associated with executing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's products and the delivery of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's services effectively; the protection of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties and intellectual property shared with its former parent; risks associated with Hewlett Packard Enterprise's international operations (including pandemics and public health problems, such as the outbreak of COVID-19); the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners, including any impact thereon resulting from events such as the COVID-19 pandemic; the hiring and retention of key employees; the execution, integration and risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the impact of changes to environmental, global trade, and other governmental regulations; changes in our product, lease, intellectual property or real estate portfolio; the payment or non-payment of a dividend for any period; the efficacy of using non-GAAP, rather than GAAP, financial measures in business projections and planning; the judgments required in connection with determining revenue recognition; impact of company policies and related compliance; utility of segment realignments; allowances for recovery of receivables and warranty obligations; provisions for, and resolution of, pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in Hewlett Packard Enterprise's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business We are a global technology leader focused on developing intelligent solutions that allow customers to capture, analyze and act upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. We enable customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Our customers range from small-and-medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") to large global enterprises and governmental entities. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers. On November 1, 2015, HP Inc. ("former Parent"), formerly known as Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP Co.") spun-off Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company ("we", "us", "our", "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", or "the Company") pursuant to a separation agreement (the "Separation and Distribution Agreement") (collectively the "Separation"). Since the Separation, we have operated as an independent, publicly-traded company. On April 1, 2017, we completed the separation and merger of our Enterprise Services business with DXC Technology Company ("DXC", "the Everett Transaction" or "Everett"). On September 1, 2017, we completed the separation and merger of our Software business segment with Micro Focus International plc ("Micro Focus", "the Seattle Transaction" or "Seattle"). Transformation Programs Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we launched a cost optimization and prioritization plan which focuses on realigning our workforce to areas of growth, including a new hybrid workforce model called Edge-to-Office, real estate strategies and simplifying and evolving our product portfolio strategy. The implementation period for the cost optimization and prioritization plan is through fiscal 2023. During this implementation period, we expect to incur transformation costs predominantly related to labor restructuring, non-labor restructuring, IT investments and design and execution charges. HPE Next During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we launched an initiative called HPE Next to put in place a purpose-built company designed to compete and win in the markets where we participate. Through this program, we are simplifying our operating model, streamlining our offerings, business processes and business systems to improve our execution. The implementation period for HPE Next has been extended to fiscal 2023. During the remaining implementation period we expect to incur transformation costs predominantly related to IT infrastructure costs for streamlining, upgrading and simplifying back-end operations, and real estate initiatives. These costs are expected to be partially offset by gains from real estate sales. Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic on HPE's Business The outbreak of COVID-19 in 2020 resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity including worldwide travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential work activities, disruption and shutdown of businesses and greater uncertainty in global financial markets, all of which resulted in COVID-19 having an impact on our financial performance in fiscal 2020. As this pandemic endures and continues to have an impact on global economic activity, the extent to which COVID-19 adversely impacts our future business operations, financial performance and results of operations is uncertain and will depend on many factors outside the Company's control. For a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to COVID-19, refer to Item 1A "Risk Factors" and Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". Our Strategy The pace of technology disruption continues to accelerate. The global pandemic has served as a catalyst making digital transformation a strategic imperative for enterprises. Enterprises now require more resilient IT to ensure continuity in their operations. They also need to deliver secure connectivity, remote work solutions, data analytics capabilities and mobile-first, cloud-like experiences to their employees and customers, while preserving liquidity to navigate the macro economic uncertainty and to adapt to the new world. We are answering the call for transformation with our edge-to-cloud strategy and solutions that are aligned to the evolving needs of our customers. We help enterprises transform and digitize their businesses so that they may accelerate their business outcomes by delivering new digital experiences and unlocking insights from their data. We saw that the foundation of 2 Table of Contents every business would be edge-to-cloud and in response HPE brings industry-leading IT infrastructure, software, services, financing resources and as-a-service capabilities to meet this demand. Human Capital Resources At HPE we are united by our purpose, which is to advance the way people live and work. We believe technology s greatest promise lies in its potential for positive change. This is the guidepost for each decision we make at HPE. We believe it not only helps guide our contribution to society, but also makes good business sense. Our company has always been an engine of innovation, and our approximately 59,400 employees as of October 31, 2020, are proud of the ways our technology enables our customers to achieve meaningful outcomes like curing disease, modernizing farming to cure world-hunger and democratizing transportation through autonomous vehicles. Our Culture : We recognize the critical importance of talent and culture to the success of HPE and our ability to fulfill our purpose . We are passionate about the values that have underpinned the success of the company over years. This is why we believe in investing in our employees and communities where we live and work. HPE has intensified its focus on creating a superior team member experience and a highly engaged workforce, driving improvements across our communications, our culture, our reward programs, and our work environment and fostering a collaborative, inclusive and inspiring experience for all our team members. Our most recent global engagement survey shows how these intentional efforts are making a difference, with our overall Employee Engagement Index measuring 83%. More than 80% of team members would recommend HPE as a great place to work, and 87% say they are proud to work for HPE. Building a Vibrant Culture: We have identified four key cultural beliefs that guide how we lead on a daily basis: belief in accelerating what s next, in bold moves, in the power of yes , and in being a force for good. We embed these beliefs in an unshakable DNA that puts customers first, ensuring we partner, innovate and act with uncompromising integrity. Our empowered and engaging culture is making HPE a destination for the best talent while driving innovation and excellence for our customers. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: We are committed to being unconditionally inclusive to capture the ideas and perspectives that fuel innovation and enable our workforce, customers, and communities to succeed in the digital age. This is because, by harnessing the potential of our technologies and our team members, we can be a force for good. Annual goals are set to increase the representation of both women and ethnically diverse talent by at least 1 percentage point year-over-year. In 2020, HPE increased our female workforce at every level worldwide, including technical and executive roles. We also increased our representation of all underrepresented minorities in the U.S. The leadership standards sponsored, clearly articulate that all people leaders are expected to continuously develop their inclusive leadership capabilities. Our Board, CEO and Executive Committee role model high standards for diversity, equity and inclusion and are leading sustainable change, with strong governance and oversight via our Inclusion and Diversity Council. Talent: We invest in attracting, developing and retaining the best talent. We do this by communicating a clear purpose and strategy, transparent goal setting, driving accountability, continuously assessing, developing, advancing talent, and a leadership-driven talent strategy. The dynamism of our industry and our company enables team members to grow in their current roles and build new skills. Over the past year, our approximately 59,400 team members completed over 330,000 online and instructor-led courses across a broad range of categories leadership, inclusion and diversity, professional skills, technical and compliance. HPE is deeply committed to identifying and developing the next generation of top tier leadership with a special focus on diverse and technical talent. We conduct an in-depth annual talent and succession review with our CEO and Executive Committee members. The process focuses on accelerating talent development, strengthening succession pipelines, and advancing diversity representation for our most critical roles. Work That Fits Your Life: This global initiative, which was launched in 2019, is an important example of how HPE is investing in our culture and creating a team member experience that makes HPE a destination of choice for the best talent in the industry. It includes an industry-leading paid parental leave program (minimum 6 months), part-time work opportunities for new parents or team members transitioning to retirement, and "Wellness Fridays" encouraging team members to leave work early one Friday per month to focus on their well-being. HPE's broader wellness program offers flexibility built around team member needs while continuing to deliver on critical business results. Key features include mental health support including employee assistance programs and free headspace accounts, physical fitness activities, and financial wellness programs. Total Rewards: HPE requires a uniquely talented workforce and is committed to providing total rewards that are market-competitive and performance based, driving innovation and operational excellence. Our compensation programs, practices, and policies reflect our commitment to reward short- and long-term performance that aligns with, and drives, stockholder value. Total direct compensation is generally positioned within a competitive range of the market median, with differentiation based on tenure, skills, proficiency, and performance to attract and retain key talent. 3 Table of Contents HPE s strong and healthy culture is critical to accelerating what s next for our customers and partners and the success of our company. Our team is energized and more engaged than ever and will enable our ability to pivot and grow, which will, in turn, power the next chapter at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Our Business Segments, Products and Services Our operations are organized into seven business segments: Compute, High Performance Compute and Mission Critical Systems ("HPC MCS"), Storage, Advisory and Professional Services ("A PS"), Intelligent Edge, Financial Services ("FS"), and Corporate Investments. The class of similar product categories within each segment which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue in each of the past three years were as follows: Fiscal 2020 - Compute products, Storage products, Compute Services Fiscal 2019 - Compute products, Storage products Fiscal 2018 - Compute products, Storage products A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments can be found in Note 3, "Segment Information", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. A discussion of certain factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Compute Our Compute portfolio offers both general purpose servers for multi-workload computing and workload-optimized servers which offer the best performance and value for demanding applications. This portfolio of products includes our secure and versatile HPE ProLiant rack and tower servers; HPE BladeSystem, a modular infrastructure that converges server, storage and networking; and HPE Synergy, a composable infrastructure for traditional and cloud-native applications. HPE ProLiant servers are the compute foundation for the fastest growing workloads in the industry including hyperconverged infrastructure ("HCI"), virtual workspaces, and artificial intelligence ("AI"). Compute offerings also include operational and support services. The Compute support team is also a provider of on-premises flexible consumption models, such as HPE GreenLake. HPC MCS Our HPC MCS portfolio offers specialized compute servers designed to support specific use cases. The HPC portfolio includes the HPE Apollo and Cray products that are sold as supercomputing systems, including exascale supercomputers (systems which have exaflops performance or a billion billion calculations per second), to support data-intensive workloads for high performance computing, data analytics and artificial intelligence applications. The MCS portfolio includes the HPE Superdome Flex, HPE Nonstop and HPE Integrity product lines for critical applications such as payments and transaction processing that require high availability, fault-tolerant computing infrastructure. The HPC MCS segment also includes the Edge Compute business which consists of the HPE Moonshot and HPE Edgeline products for computing at the network edge. HPC MCS offerings also include operational and support services. HPC MCS products can also be purchased through on-premises flexible consumption models, such as HPE GreenLake. With offerings that are artificial intelligence-driven and built for hybrid cloud environments with as-a-service consumption and flexible investment options, we provide the right workload optimized destinations for data. A portion of HPC and MCS revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to the terms and rights for the convenience of the government entity. These terms and rights include in some instances a dependence on the appropriation of future funding and also termination rights contingent upon not achieving certain milestones. For a discussion of certain risks related to contracts with government entities, see "Risk Factors Failure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations." Storage We provide workload-optimized products and service offerings that are AI-driven and built for cloud environments with flexible consumption models from HPE GreenLake and flexible investment options. Powered by HPE InfoSight-advanced artificial intelligence operations, HPE solutions deliver an intelligent data platform that enables customers to unleash the power of their data. Key offerings include an intelligent HCI portfolio with HPE Nimble Storage dHCI, a disaggregated HCI solution for the enterprise data center and HPE SimpliVity, a hyperconverged platform for general purpose and edge workloads. The portfolio also includes HPE Primera, HPE Nimble Storage and HPE 3PAR primary storage solutions, comprehensive data protection solutions with HPE Cloud Volumes Backup and HPE StoreOnce, and big data solutions running on HPE Apollo servers. Storage also provides solutions for secondary workloads and traditional tape, storage networking and disk products, such as HPE Modular Storage Arrays ("MSA") and HPE XP. Storage offerings also include operational and support services. 4 Table of Contents A PS Our A PS business provides consultative-led services, HPE and partner technology expertise and advice, implementation services and complex solution engagement capabilities. Our advisors and experts engage early with customers to lead them through their digital transformations and to improve their business outcomes. A PS is also a provider of on-premises flexible consumption models that enable IT agility, simplify operations, and align cost to value. A PS is of strategic importance to HPE as it drives large value sales of HPE infrastructure products and services such as HPE GreenLake, HPE Ezmeral, HPC MCS and other Compute Storage infrastructure products. Intelligent Edge The Intelligent Edge business is comprised of a portfolio of secure edge-to-cloud solutions operating under the Aruba brand that include wireless local area network ("LAN"), campus and data center switching, software-defined wide-area-networking, which now includes Silver Peak, security, and associated services to enable secure connectivity for businesses of any size. The primary business drivers for Intelligent Edge solutions are mobility and IoT. The HPE Aruba Product portfolio includes wired and wireless LAN hardware products such as Wi-Fi access points, switches, routers and sensors. The HPE Aruba software and services portfolio of products includes cloud-based management, network management, which now includes Silver Peak, network access control, analytics and assurance, location services software and professional and support services, as well as as-a-Service and consumption models for the Intelligent Edge portfolio of products. Financial Services Financial Services provides flexible investment solutions, such as leasing, financing, IT consumption, and utility programs and asset management services, for customers that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software and services from Hewlett Packard Enterprise and others. FS also supports financial solutions for on-premise flexible consumption models, such as HPE Greenlake. In order to provide flexible services and capabilities that support the entire IT life cycle, FS partners with customers globally to help build investment strategies that enhance their business agility and support their business transformation. FS offers a wide selection of investment solution capabilities for large enterprise customers and channel partners, along with an array of financial options to SMBs and educational and governmental entities. Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes Hewlett Packard Labs which is responsible for research and development, the Communications and Media Solutions ("CMS") business and certain business incubation projects. Forthcoming Segment Realignments In order to align our segment financial reporting structure more closely with our current business structure, effective November 1, 2020, we will report the following changes to our reportable segments: the lifecycle event services business which was previously reported within the A PS segment will be reported within each of the related hardware segments; certain software related business offerings previously reported within Compute, Storage and A PS will be combined and reported within the Corporate Investments segment; and the remainder of A PS, which was previously reported as a reportable segment, will be reported within the Corporate Investments segment. Additionally, the stock-based compensation expense which was previously reported within segment operating results will be now be reported as a corporate cost. Our Strengths We believe that we possess a number of competitive advantages that distinguish us from our competitors, including: Digital transformation is at the forefront of our business priorities. We have a distinctive and industry leading portfolio of edge-to-cloud solutions and unique capabilities to help accelerate our customers' digital transformation. We combine our software-defined infrastructure and services capabilities to provide what we believe is the strongest portfolio of enterprise solutions in the IT industry. Our ability to deliver a comprehensive IT strategy and connect our customers' data from edge to cloud, through our high-quality products and high-value consulting and support services in a single package, is one of our principal differentiators. Differentiated consumption-based IT solutions for a growing opportunity. Enterprises of all sizes are looking to digitally transform in order to develop next-generation cloud-native applications, create actionable insights from their data, and drive business growth, but they face many challenges including lack of in-house IT skills, limited budgets and options for financing, and lack of flexibility to choose the technology foundation that best meets their needs. 5 Table of Contents Consumption-based IT offers solutions to these challenges by providing greater agility, empowering people to shift from managing infrastructure to driving innovation by leveraging insights from their data, while eliminating capital and operating expenses tied to infrastructure over-provisioning. HPE is distinctly differentiated in delivering a true consumption-based IT experience. We saw the opportunity early, and that has allowed us to build capabilities and partnerships that are unique in the industry including the ability to deliver our as-a-Service portfolio with over 700 channel partners that can sell the as-a-Service portfolio. Multi-year innovation roadmap and strong balance sheet. We have been in the technology and innovation business for over 75 years. Our vast intellectual property portfolio and global research and development capabilities are part of a broader innovation roadmap designed to help organizations take advantage of the expanding amount of data available and leverage the latest technology developments like cloud, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity to drive business outcomes now and in the future. We also have a strong balance sheet and liquidity profile that provides the financial flexibility and speed to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. Global distribution and partner ecosystem. We are experts in delivering innovative technological solutions to our customers in complex multi-country, multi-vendor and/or multi-language environments. We have one of the largest go-to-market capabilities in our industry, including a large ecosystem of channel partners, which enables us to market and deliver our product offerings to customers located virtually anywhere in the world. Custom financial solutions. Through Financial Services we can help customers create investment capacity to accelerate their transformations by helping them free up capital, capture value from older assets, achieve sustainability goals, invest in new technologies as a service, and weather financial volatility. Financial Services is also an enabler of our consumption-based IT models by helping spread our upfront solution costs over the duration of the customer contract. Through Financial Services' Global Asset Recovery Centers, we are helping customers achieve their own sustainability goals by processing more than 4 million assets every year. Experienced leadership team and business group leaders aligned to market trends and financial segmentation. Our management team has an extensive track record of performance and execution. We are led by our President and Chief Executive Officer, Antonio Neri, who has proven experience in developing transformative business models, building global brands and driving sustained growth and expansion in the technology industry. Mr. Neri's experience includes over 20 years combined at HPE and HP Co. in various leadership positions. This year we simpli