Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2. Properties 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6. [R eserved ] 33 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 57 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 58 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 127 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 127 Item 9B. Other Information 127 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 128 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 129 Item 11. Executive Compensation 129 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 129 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 129 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 129 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 130 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 135 Table of Conten t Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ("Hewlett Packard Enterprise") may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. The words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "intend", "will", "estimates", "may", "likely", "could", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the scope and duration of the novel coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19"), other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises, and the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, our actions in response thereto, and their impacts on our business, operations, liquidity and capital resources, employees, customers, partners, supply chain, financial results, and the world economy; any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, investments, effective tax rates, interest rates, the impact of tax law changes (including those in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022) and related guidance and regulations, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources, inventory, goodwill, impairment charges, hedges and derivatives and related offsets, order backlog, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates, repayments of debts including our asset-backed debt securities, or other financial items; recent amendments to accounting guidance and any potential impacts on our financial reporting therefrom; any projections of the amount, execution, timing, and results of any transformation or impact of cost savings, restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the anticipated benefits, cost savings, or charges of implementing such transformation and restructuring plans; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, as well as the execution of corporate transactions or contemplated acquisitions, research and development expenditures, and any resulting benefit, cost savings, charges, or revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share, or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements concerning technological and market trends, the pace of technological innovation, and adoption of new technologies, including products and services offered by Hewlett Packard Enterprise; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its financial performance; any statements regarding future regulatory trends and the resulting legal and reputational exposure, including but not limited to those relating to environmental, social, and governance issues; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims, or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties, and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; risks associated with executing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events, including but not limited to supply chain constraints, the inflationary environment, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and the relationship between China and the U.S.; the need to effectively manage third-party suppliers and distribute Hewlett Packard Enterprise's products and services; the protection of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties and intellectual property shared with its former parent; risks associated with Hewlett Packard Enterprise's international operations (including from pandemics and public health problems, such as the outbreak of COVID-19, and geopolitical events, such as those mentioned above); the development of and transition to new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its suppliers, customers, clients, and partners, including any impact thereon resulting from macroeconomic or geopolitical events; the hiring and retention of key employees; the execution, integration, and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the impact of changes to privacy, cybersecurity, environmental, global trade, and other governmental regulations; changes in our product, lease, intellectual property, or real estate portfolio; the payment or non-payment of a dividend for any period; the efficacy of using non-GAAP, rather than GAAP, financial measures in business projections and planning; the judgments required in connection with determining revenue recognition; impact of company policies and related compliance; utility of segment realignments; allowances for recovery of receivables and warranty obligations; provisions for, and resolution of, pending investigations, claims, and disputes; the impacts of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 and related guidance or regulations; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law. 1 Table of Conten t PART I ITEM 1. Business We are a global technology leader focused on developing intelligent solutions that allow customers to capture, analyze and act upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. We enable customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Our customers range from small-and-medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") to large global enterprises and governmental entities. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers. We use the terms "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", "the Company", "we", "us", and "our" to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. COVID-19 Pandemic Update While great progress has been made in the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19" or "pandemic"), there remain global challenges from the pandemic's lasting effects. In fiscal 2022 and 2021, due to an unprecedented demand for electronic devices and related industry-wide supply constraints, the global economy encountered a challenging supply chain environment. At the end of fiscal 2022, the supply chain challenges we experienced as a result of the pandemic eased, but we are currently unable to predict the extent to which they may adversely impact our future business operations, financial performance and results of operations. For a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to COVID-19, see risks identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A. In 2021, HPE adopted vaccination policies to protect the health and safety of our team members and customers. We monitored the situation, including pandemic-related case data and broader government health guidelines, in order to update these policies as the situation evolved. During most of fiscal 2022, our team members in the U.S. were required to be vaccinated in order to enter our sites, work at customer and third-party sites, and for travel to attend work-related events, unless the team member had an approved exemption granted by our human resources organization and underwent routine testing. Given the effectiveness and broad access of v accines, along with their acceptance by a high percentage of our U.S. workforce, as of September 6, 2022, we lifted our vaccination requirement for access to sites, travel, and work-related events in the U.S. However, any team member or contingent worker working at or visiting customer or third-party sites must continue to comply with those parties' rules and provide proof of vaccination or a negative test. Outside of the U.S., sites are open at varying capacities based on local pandemic conditions and risk mitigation strategies enacted by country leadership. We maintain compliance with all local laws and regulations with respect to office attendance and safety protocols. Our Strategy Over the last several years, new megatrends around edge, cloud, and data have emerged to shape customer expectations for enterprise technology. First, data at the edge is increasing exponentially, driven by the proliferation of devices that require secure connectivity to enable reliable digital experiences. Second, enterprises need a cloud experience everywhere to manage data and workloads wherever they live across a distributed enterprise. Third, data growth is creating countless new opportunities to generate meaningful business insights. Customer response to these megatrends has been accelerated by the pandemic and the increasing pace of technological innovation. In concert with these trends, enterprises are consuming their technology differently. Increasingly, customers want to digitally transform while preserving capital and eliminating operating expense by paying only for the information technology ("IT") they use. The megatrends are ushering in long-lasting changes to IT, including accelerating hybrid multi-cloud adoption. Customers across industry verticals are interested in unifying all the applications and data with a consistent cloud experience. Customers also want to better extract value from their growing stores of rapidly evolving data, knowing that actionable insights from data are critical to deliver business outcomes. Data is becoming more unstructured, more time-sensitive and more distributed. Frequently, data is siloed and spread across different multi-gen IT systems, often trapped in critical legacy architecture. Many organizations cannot adequately gain insights from their data at the edge or face cloud migration challenges because of their legacy applications. Customers need a data-first modernization approach across edge to data center to cloud. HPE has deployed an edge-to-cloud strategy that capitalizes on emergent megatrends and delivers a data-first modernization approach for customers. Our vision to be the edge-to-cloud company has led us to innovate our solutions across connectivity, cloud, and data. We have shifted our mix of products and services, and how we deliver that mix to customers. 2 Table of Conten t HPE has evolved to a platform-based model, fueled by a portfolio richer in software and services. Our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform is a centerpiece of our strategy; it accelerates multi-generation IT transformation through a unified cloud services experience that empowers customers to access, analyze, and extract value from their data across public clouds, data centers, colocation facilities, and at the edge. Our solutions across connectivity, cloud and data are delivered as-a-service through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform across our Intelligent Edge, Compute, High Performance Computing Artificial Intelligence ("HPC AI"), and Storage business segments. Financial Services complements our solution offerings by helping customers unlock financial capacity. Human Capital Resources At HPE we are united by our purpose, which is to advance the way people live and work. We believe technology s greatest promise lies in its potential for positive change. This is the guidepost for each decision we make at HPE. We believe it not only helps guide our contribution to society, but also makes good business sense. Our company has always been an engine of innovation, and our approximately 60,200 employees as of October 31, 2022, are proud of the ways our technology enables our customers to achieve meaningful outcomes like curing disease, modernizing farming to cure world-hunger and democratizing transportation through autonomous vehicles. Our Culture: We recognize the critical importance of talent and culture to the success of HPE and our ability to fulfill our purpose. We are passionate about the values that drive our success, which is why we believe in investing in our team members and in the communities where we live and work. HPE has intensified its focus on embedding these values into a vibrant culture that creates a superior team member experience and a highly engaged workforce, driving improvements across our communications, our reward programs, and our work environment. Through such efforts, we aim to foster a collaborative, inclusive and inspiring experience for all our team members. Our most recent global engagement survey shows how these intentional efforts are making a difference, with our overall Employee Engagement Index measuring 83%. More than 84% of team members would recommend HPE as a great place to work, and 88% say they are proud to work for HPE. Building a Vibrant Culture: We have identified four key cultural beliefs that guide how we lead on a daily basis: belief in accelerating what s next, bold moves, the power of yes we can , and being a force for good. We embed these beliefs in a deep-rooted DNA that puts customers first, enabling us to partner, innovate and act with integrity. Our empowered and engaging culture is making HPE a destination for talent while driving innovation and excellence for our customers. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: We are committed to being unconditionally inclusive to capture the ideas and perspectives that advance the way we live and work by enabling our workforce, customers, and communities to succeed in the digital age. This is because, by harnessing the potential of our technologies and our team members, we can be a force for good. Annual goals are set to increase the representation of both worldwide female employees and worldwide female executives by at least 1 percentage point year-over-year. Aspirational goals are also set to double our U.S. Black and Hispanic executive headcounts by 2027, from 2020 levels. At the close of fiscal 2022, the representation of worldwide female executives in our workforce had increased 1.5 percentage points since the prior year, with increased representation at every level worldwide. We also increased our representation of all underrepresented minorities in the U.S. by 1.3 percentage points overall. We are committed to delivering on our focus on equity, as well, by taking a data-led approach at various points across the team member lifecycle to evaluate and improve our diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts. In the U.S., the HPE Voice of the Workforce Employee Engagement Index is 81%. All HPE Employee Engagement Indexes for U.S. ethnically diverse talent groups were the same or better, some by as much as 8 percentage points. The leadership standards clearly articulate that all people leaders are expected to continuously develop their inclusive leadership capabilities. Our Board, CEO, and Executive Committee model high standards for diversity, equity, and inclusion and are leading sustainable change, with strong governance and oversight via our Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Council. We have also been committed to advancing transparency, by publicly disclosing further information and data on diversity, equity, and inclusion at HPE, including the Equal Employment Opportunity report (EEO-1) data, since 2018. Talent: We invest in attracting, developing, and retaining the best talent. We do this by communicating a clear purpose and strategy, setting transparent goals, driving accountability, continuously assessing, developing, and advancing talent, and advancing a leadership-driven talent strategy. The dynamism of our industry and our company enables team members to grow in their current roles and build new skills. Over the past year, our approximately 60,200 team members completed over 665,000 online and instructor-led courses across a broad range of categories leadership; inclusion and diversity; professional skills; technical; and compliance. HPE is deeply committed to identifying and developing the next generation of top tier leadership with a special focus on diverse and technical talent. We conduct an in-depth annual talent and succession review with our CEO and Executive Committee members. The process focuses on accelerating talent development, strengthening succession pipelines, and advancing diversity representation for our most critical roles. 3 Table of Conten t Pay Equity: We believe people should be paid equitably for what they do and how they do it, regardless of their gender, race, or other personal characteristics. We maintain policies to promote equal pay, and we regularly review our global pay practices with an aim to ensure that team members in similar roles and locations are paid commensurately with their experience and responsibilities. We partner with independent third-party experts to conduct annual pay assessments and identify unexplained gaps between our present state and our goal of equitable pay treatment for all team members. Where these reviews identify such gaps at a country-wide level, we adjust compensation to eliminate the gap. As a result of our efforts, we are proud to report that our 2021 pay equity review demonstrated that we have achieved pay parity for base compensation and bonus targets between male and female team members in the U.S. (including among underrepresented ethnicities), U.K., and India, when accounting for job title, time-in-role, experience, and location. We conduct a number of compensation analyses in other countries to provide competitive and equitable pay and, where permissible, we intend to incorporate similar third-party pay assessments into our existing processes. Work That Fits Your Life: This global initiative, which was launched in 2019, is an important example of how HPE is investing in our culture and creating a team member experience that makes HPE a destination of choice for the best talent in the industry. It includes an industry-leading paid parental leave program (minimum 6 months), part-time work opportunities for new parents or team members transitioning to retirement, and "Wellness Fridays" encouraging team members to leave work early one Friday per month to focus on their well-being. The HPE Global Wellness Program is a comprehensive program that promotes overall health and well-being by providing team members with programs and resources that offer flexibility built around team member needs while continuing to deliver on critical business results. The program consists of four pillars: physical health, financial well-being, mental and emotional health, and community well-being. Additionally, we offer a hybrid work environment for the majority of our team members, allowing them substantial flexibility to determine the number of days in the office that work best for them. Total Rewards: HPE requires a uniquely talented workforce and is committed to providing total rewards that are market-competitive and performance based, driving innovation and operational excellence. Our compensation programs, practices, and policies reflect our commitment to reward short- and long-term performance that aligns with, and drives stockholder value. Total direct compensation is generally positioned within a competitive range of the market median, with differentiation based on tenure, skills, proficiency, and performance to attract and retain key talent. Board Oversight: Our Board of Directors plays an active role in overseeing our human capital management strategy and programs. Our HR and Compensation Committee provides oversight of our human resources and workforce management programs, including but not limited to those related to corporate culture; compensation plans and policies; diversity and inclusion; and talent acquisition, development, and retention. HPE s strong and healthy culture is critical to accelerating what s next for our customers and partners and the success of our company. Our team is energized and more engaged than ever and will enable our ability to pivot and grow, which will, in turn, power the next chapter at Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Our Business Segments, Products and Services Our operations are organized into six reportable business segments: Compute, HPC AI, Storage, Intelligent Edge, Financial Services, and Corporate Investments and Other. The class of similar product categories within each segment which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue in each of the past three years was as follows: Fiscal 2022 - Compute products, Compute services, Intelligent Edge products Fiscal 2021 - Compute products, Compute services, Storage products Fiscal 2020 - Compute products, Storage products, Compute services A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments can be found in Note 2, "Segment Information", to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. A discussion of certain factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Compute Our Compute portfolio consists of both general-purpose servers for multi-workload computing and workload-optimized servers to deliver the best performance and value for demanding applications. This portfolio of products includes our secure and versatile HPE ProLiant rack and tower servers and HPE Synergy, a composable infrastructure for traditional and cloud-native applications. HPE ProLiant servers are the compute foundation for the fastest growing workloads in the industry including hyperconverged infrastructure ("HCI"), virtual workspaces, data management, transcoding and visualization. Compute offerings also include operational and support services and HPE GreenLake for Compute. HPE GreenLake for Compute provides flexible Compute as-a-service IT infrastructure on a consumption basis through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. 4 Table of Conten t HPC AI Our HPC AI business offers integrated systems comprised of software and hardware designed to address High-Performance Computing ("HPC"), Artificial Intelligence ("AI"), Data Analytics, and Transaction Processing workloads for government and commercial customers globally. Our solutions are segmented into the following categories: HPC and Data Solutions. The HPC portfolio of products includes HPE Cray, HPE Apollo, and Converged Edge Systems (formerly known as Edge Compute) hardware, software, and data management appliances that are often sold as supercomputing systems, including exascale supercomputers (systems that can process 10 18 floating point calculations per second), that support data-intensive simulations and large-scale AI applications. The Data Solutions portfolio includes the mission critical compute portfolio and HPE NonStop. The mission critical compute portfolio includes the HPE Superdome Flex and HPE Integrity product lines for critical applications, including large enterprise software applications and data analytics platforms. The HPE NonStop portfolio includes high-availability, fault-tolerant software and appliances that power applications, such as credit-card transaction processing that require large scale and high availability. As part of our systems are aligned to the convergence of HPC and AI-at-scale across our industry, HPE offers a suite of software products, including AI-powered technologies designed to play a critical role in turning data into readily available, actionable information to fuel growth and innovation for our customers. These include a software stack to train AI models using our open-source machine learning platform. HPC AI offerings also include operational and support services, whether sold with our systems or as standalone services. We also offer most of our solutions as-a-service through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. With offerings that are AI-driven and built for hybrid cloud environments with HPE GreenLake consumption models, we provide the right workload optimized destinations for data and insights development for our clients. A portion of HPC AI revenue is generated in part by sales to government entities, which are subject to the terms and rights for the convenience of the government entity. These terms and rights include in some instances a dependence on the appropriation of future funding and also termination rights contingent upon not achieving certain milestones. For a discussion of certain risks related to contracts with government entities, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors Failure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations". Storage HPE Storage is transforming the customer experience with storage as-a-service and cloud data services through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform and data infrastructure to enable customers to simplify IT and unlock greater levels of agility with a cloud operational experience. The customer experience transformation also includes AI and data-driven intelligence with HPE InfoSight and HPE CloudPhysics. Customers can store and serve their data with speed and high availability to applications, secure and protect their data across hybrid clouds from ransomware and cyber threats, and gain data mobility across private cloud, public cloud, and multi-cloud environments. The Storage portfolio includes primary storage product and service offerings, which includes software-powered HCI consisting of HPE Nimble Storage Disaggregated HCI and HPE SimpliVity, cloud native primary storage with HPE Primera and HPE Alletra, our first storage as-a-service with HPE GreenLake for Block Storage, disaster recovery and ransomware recovery with Zerto, backup as-a-service with HPE Backup and Recovery Service, and big data solutions running on HPE Apollo servers. Storage also provides solutions for secondary workloads and traditional tape, storage networking, and disk products, such as HPE Modular Storage Arrays ("MSA") and HPE XP. Storage offerings also include operational and support services, software subscription services, and data infrastructure portfolio and solutions delivered as-a-service through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. Intelligent Edge The Intelligent Edge business is comprised of a portfolio of secure edge-to-cloud solutions operating under the Aruba brand that include wired and wireless local area network ("LAN"), campus and data center switching, software-defined wide area networking, network security, and associated services to enable secure connectivity for businesses of any size. The primary business drivers for Intelligent Edge solutions are work from anywhere environments, mobility, and internet-of-things ("IoT"). The insights from data generated at the edge are key to driving new business outcomes and experiences. The HPE Aruba product portfolio includes hardware products, such as Wi-Fi access points, switches, and gateways. The HPE Aruba software and services portfolio includes cloud-based management, network management, network access control, analytics and assurance, location services software, and professional and support services, as well as as-a-service and consumption models through the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform for the Intelligent Edge portfolio of products. 5 Table of Conten t We also offer Aruba ESP (or Edge Services Platform), which takes a cloud-native approach to helping customers meet their connectivity, security, and financia