Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 36 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. [Reserved] 40 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 139 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 139 Item 9B. Other Information 139 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 140 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 141 Item 11. Executive Compensation 141 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 141 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 142 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 142 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 143 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 149 Signatures 150 Table of Conte n t Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and its consolidated subsidiaries ( Hewlett Packard Enterprise ) may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. The words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, will, estimates, may, likely, could, should and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any anticipated financial or operational benefits associated with the segment realignment that became effective as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2024; any projections, estimations or expectations of addressable markets and their sizes, revenue (including annualized revenue run-rate), margins, expenses (including stock-based compensation expenses), investments, effective tax rates, interest rates, the impact of tax law changes and related guidance and regulations, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, liquidity and capital resources, inventory, goodwill, impairment charges, hedges and derivatives and related offsets, order backlog, benefit plan funding, deferred tax assets, share repurchases, currency exchange rates, repayments of debts including our asset-backed debt securities, or other financial items; recent amendments to accounting guidance and any potential impacts on our financial reporting therefrom; any projections or estimations of orders, including as-a-service orders; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, as well as the execution and consummation of corporate transactions or contemplated acquisitions (including but not limited to our proposed acquisition of Juniper Networks, Inc.) and dispositions (including disposition of our H3C shares and the receipt of proceeds therefrom), research and development expenditures, and any resulting benefits, cost savings, charges, or revenue or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share, or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements concerning technological and market trends, the pace of technological innovation, and adoption of new technologies, including artificial intelligence-related and other products and services offered by Hewlett Packard Enterprise; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on Hewlett Packard Enterprise and our financial performance, including but not limited to supply chain dynamics, demand for our products and services, and access to liquidity, and our actions to mitigate such impacts to our business; the scope and duration of outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, public health crises, the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East and the relationship between China and the U.S., and our actions in response thereto, and their impacts on our business, operations, liquidity and capital resources, employees, customers, partners, supply chain, financial results, and the world economy; any statements regarding future regulatory trends and the resulting legal and reputational exposure, including but not limited to those relating to environmental, social, governance, cybersecurity, data privacy, and artificial intelligence issues; any statements regarding pending litigation, investigations, claims, or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties, and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's businesses; risks associated with executing Hewlett Packard Enterprise's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events, including but not limited to heightened global trade restrictions, the use and development of artificial intelligence and the events described above; the need to effectively manage third-party suppliers and distribute Hewlett Packard Enterprise's products and services; the protection of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties and intellectual property shared with its former parent; risks associated with Hewlett Packard Enterprise's international operations (including from public health crises, such as pandemics or epidemics, and geopolitical events, such as, but not limited to, those mentioned above); the development of and transition to new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution of Hewlett Packard Enterprise s ongoing transformation and mix shift of its portfolio of offerings; the execution and performance of contracts by Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its suppliers, customers, clients, and partners, including any impact thereon resulting from macroeconomic or geopolitical events, such as, but not limited to, those mentioned above; the prospect of a shutdown of the U.S. federal government; the hiring and retention of key employees; the execution, integration, consummation, and other risks associated with business combination, disposition, and investment transactions, including but not limited to the risks associated with the disposition of H3C shares and the receipt of proceeds therefrom and completion of our proposed acquisition of Juniper Networks, Inc. and our ability to integrate and implement our plans, forecasts, and other expectations with respect to the consolidated business; the impact of changes to privacy, cybersecurity, environmental, global trade, and other governmental regulations; changes in our product, lease, intellectual property, or real estate portfolio; the payment or non-payment of a dividend for any period; the efficacy of using non-GAAP, rather than GAAP, financial measures in business projections and planning; the judgments required in connection with determining certain financial metrics; utility of segment realignments; allowances for recovery of receivables and warranty obligations; provisions for, and resolution of, pending litigation, investigations, claims, and disputes; the impacts of tax law changes and related guidance or regulations; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in Hewlett Packard Enterprise's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Hewlett Packard Enterprise assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable law. 1 Table of Conte n t PART I ITEM 1. Business We are a global technology leader focused on developing intelligent solutions that allow customers to capture, analyze and act upon data seamlessly from edge to cloud. We enable customers to accelerate business outcomes by driving new business models, creating new customer and employee experiences, and increasing operational efficiency today and into the future. Our customers range from small-and-medium-sized businesses to large global enterprises and governmental entities. Our legacy dates back to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R. Hewlett and David Packard, and we strive every day to uphold and enhance that legacy through our dedication to providing innovative technological solutions to our customers. We use the terms Hewlett Packard Enterprise, HPE, the Company, we, us, and our to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. Our Strategy Over the last several years, new megatrends around edge, cloud, data, and artificial intelligence ( AI ) have emerged to shape customer expectations for enterprise technology. First, data at the edge is increasing exponentially, driven by the proliferation of devices that require secure connectivity to enable reliable digital experiences. Second, enterprises need a cloud experience everywhere to manage data and workloads wherever they live across a distributed enterprise. Third, data growth is creating countless new opportunities to generate meaningful business insights. Finally, HPE is seeing a significant technology shift as customers realize the fundamental potential of AI technology to deliver business transformation. In concert with these trends, enterprises are consuming their technology differently. Increasingly, customers want to digitally transform while preserving capital and eliminating operating expense by paying only for the information technology ( IT ) they use. The megatrends are ushering in long-lasting changes to IT, including accelerating hybrid multi-cloud adoption. Customers across industry verticals are interested in unifying all the applications and data with a consistent cloud experience. Customers also want to better extract value from their growing stores of rapidly evolving data, knowing that actionable insights from data are critical to deliver business transformations. Data is becoming more unstructured, more time-sensitive, and more distributed. Frequently, data is siloed and spread across different multi-generational IT systems, often trapped in critical legacy architecture. Many organizations cannot adequately gain insights from their data at the edge or face cloud migration challenges because of their legacy applications. Customers need a data-first modernization approach across edge to data center to cloud. HPE has deployed an edge-to-cloud strategy that capitalizes on emergent megatrends and delivers a data-first modernization approach for customers. Our vision to be the edge-to-cloud company has led us to innovate our solutions across networking connectivity, cloud, and data, delivered as-a-service ( aaS ) through the HPE GreenLake cloud. We have shifted our mix of products and services, and how we deliver that mix to customers. HPE has evolved to a platform-based model, fueled by a portfolio richer in software and services. In hybrid cloud, we have redefined the cloud space by delivering an experience that is hybrid by design with our HPE GreenLake cloud as the centerpiece of our strategy; it accelerates multi-generation IT transformation through a unified cloud-native and AI-driven experience that empowers customers to access, analyze, and extract value from their data across public clouds, data centers, colocation facilities, and at the edge. The AI market requires a modern and high-performing networking fabric as a core foundation to deliver a more efficient data-center cloud, which we offer through our AI-driven portfolio of networking solutions. Our server business supports both traditional servers and those meant to enable AI workloads with decades of large-scale infrastructure expertise, including technologies like direct liquid cooling that are powering some of our largest AI systems. Our Financial Services ( FS ) business complements our solution offerings by helping customers unlock financial capacity. We recognize the AI market will be driven by computational capability, data-intensive workloads, and the need for specialized architecture; thus, we have been targeting, and continue to target three areas: supercomputing, AI infrastructure, and AI platform software. We seek to seize this AI market opportunity by innovating in networking, hybrid cloud and AI which are all essential building blocks to deliver a unified technology experience. We believe that we are differentiated from our competition by our unique and compelling value proposition, which positions us to capture significant value from the growing AI market through our intellectual property portfolio, trusted expertise, and long-term sustained market leadership in supercomputing. The pending acquisition of Juniper Networks, Inc. ("Juniper Networks") further supports the aforementioned strategies and enables us to execute on them. We believe this acquisition will accelerate our edge-to-cloud vision with a full networking IP stack: from silicon, to infrastructure, to the operating system, to security, to software and services, in a cloud-native and AI- 2 Table of Conte n t driven approach. Furthermore, through this strategic acquisition, we seek to deliver secure, AI-driven networking solutions, which will be foundational to delivering fully integrated hybrid cloud and AI solutions. Our Business Segments, Products and Services Our operations are organized into five reportable business segments: Server, Hybrid Cloud, Intelligent Edge, Financial Services, and Corporate Investments and Other. The class of similar product categories within each segment which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue in each of the past three years was as follows: Fiscal 2024 - Server products, Server services, Intelligent Edge products, Hybrid Cloud products Fiscal 2023 - Server products, Intelligent Edge products, Server services, Hybrid Cloud products Fiscal 2022 - Server products, Server services, Hybrid Cloud products, Intelligent Edge products The Company had two distributors which represented approximately 14% and 11% of the Company's total net revenue in fiscal 2024, primarily within the Intelligent Edge and Server segments. A summary of our net revenue, earnings from operations and assets for our segments can be found in Note 2, Segment Information, to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. A discussion of certain factors potentially affecting our operations is set forth in Item 1A of Part I, Risk Factors. Server Our Server segment offerings consist of general-purpose servers for multi-workload computing and workload-optimized servers to deliver the high performance and value for demanding applications, and integrated systems comprised of software and hardware designed to address high-performance computing and supercomputing (including exascale applications), artificial intelligence, data analytics, and transaction processing workloads for government and commercial customers globally. This portfolio of products includes our secure and versatile HPE ProLiant Rack and Tower servers; HPE Synergy, a composable infrastructure for traditional and cloud-native applications; HPE Scale Up Servers product lines for critical applications, including large enterprise software applications and data analytics platforms; HPE Edgeline servers; HPE Cray EX; HPE Cray XD (formerly known as HPE Apollo); and HPE NonStop. Server offerings also include operational and support services sold with systems and as standalone services. Hybrid Cloud The Hybrid Cloud segment offers a wide variety of cloud-native and hybrid solutions across storage, private cloud and the infrastructure software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) space. Storage includes data storage and data management offerings with the HPE Alletra Storage portfolio; unstructured data solutions and analytics for AI; data protection and archiving; and storage networking. It also includes AIOps-driven intelligence with HPE InfoSight and HPE CloudPhysics. In private cloud, our Private Cloud Enterprise offerings include new cloud-native offerings and capabilities for virtual machines, containers, and bare metal; a full suite of private cloud offerings that enable customers to self-manage or choose a fully managed experience. In fiscal 2024, we launched a new offering, Private Cloud AI, that captures the emerging enterprise model fine-tuning, retrieval augmented generation and inference markets for AI solutions. Private Cloud AI is fully integrated, standardized offer that has been co-developed with AI market leader Nvidia, with the goal to provide an out of the box solution for enterprise AI. This segment also provides self-service private cloud on-demand with HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Business Edition. Infrastructure software includes monitoring and observability for day two operations and beyond through our acquisition of OpsRamp and unified data access through our HPE Ezmeral Data Fabric and analytics suite, which helps move and transform data for use in AI and other applications. Hybrid Cloud segment also includes data lifecycle management and protection through our suite of offerings, including Zerto Disaster Recovery. Intelligent Edge The Intelligent Edge segment offers wired and wireless local area networks, campus, branch, and data center switching, software-defined wide-area-networks, private and public cellular network software, network security, and associated services that enable secure connectivity for businesses of any size. The HPE Aruba Networking product portfolio includes hardware products such as Wi-Fi access points, switches, and gateways. The HPE Aruba Networking software and services portfolio includes cloud-based management, network management, network access control, software-defined wide-area networking, network security, analytics and assurance, location services software, private and public cellular core software, and professional and support services, as well as aaS and consumption models through the HPE GreenLake cloud for the Intelligent Edge portfolio of products. Intelligent Edge offerings are consolidated in the edge service platform, which takes a cloud-native approach that provides customers with a unified framework to meet their connectivity, security, and financial needs across campus, branch, data center, and remote worker environments. Upon closing of the pending acquisition of Juniper Networks, we expect to offer an even more comprehensive portfolio of networking solutions. 3 Table of Conte n t Financial Services Financial Services ( FS ) provides flexible investment solutions, such as leasing, financing, IT consumption, utility programs, and asset management services for customers that facilitate unique technology deployment models and the acquisition of complete IT solutions, including hardware, software, and services from Hewlett Packard Enterprise and others. FS also supports financial solutions for on-premise flexible consumption models, such as the HPE GreenLake cloud. Corporate Investments and Other Corporate Investments and Other includes the Advisory and Professional Services business, which primarily offers consultative-led services, HPE and partner technology expertise and advice, implementation services as well as complex solution engagement capabilities; the Communications and Media Solutions business, which primarily offers software and related services to the telecommunications industry; and Hewlett Packard Labs, which is responsible for research and development. Our Strengths We believe that we possess a number of competitive advantages that distinguish us from our competitors, including: Edge-to-cloud strategy and solutions uniquely solve customer challenges. As data grows and evolves, enterprises become increasingly distributed, and customers realize the potential in AI technology, HPE s edge-to-cloud strategy is uniquely designed to enable customers to securely access, control, and maximize the value of all their workloads and data assets to accelerate business outcomes. The HPE GreenLake cloud is an open, secure, fully integrated platform that brings a unified experience across the edge, data center, colocation, and cloud. It is automated and easy to consume with capacity available to scale up and down on demand. It offers true pay per use consumption so customers only pay for what they use, and they can have the entire hybrid cloud experience managed for them through our HPE Managed Services offerings. Comprehensive portfolio. We have a distinctive and industry leading portfolio of edge-to-cloud solutions and capabilities to help accelerate our customers' digital transformations and help them capture the opportunity that AI presents for their businesses. We combine our software-defined infrastructure and services capabilities to provide what we believe is the strongest portfolio of enterprise solutions in the IT industry. Our ability to deliver a comprehensive IT strategy and connect our customers' data from edge to cloud, through our high-quality products and high-value consulting and support services in a single package, is one of our principal differentiators. Differentiated consumption-based IT solutions for a growing opportunity. Enterprises of all sizes are looking to digitally transform in order to develop next-generation cloud-native applications, create actionable insights from their data, and drive business growth, but they face many challenges including lack of in-house IT skills, limited budgets and options for financing, and lack of flexibility to choose the technology foundation that best meets their needs. Consumption-based IT offers solutions to these challenges by providing greater agility, which empowers people to shift from managing infrastructure to driving innovation by leveraging insights from their data, while also eliminating capital and operating expenses tied to infrastructure over-provisioning. HPE is distinctly differentiated in delivering a true consumption-based IT experience. Open platforms. The world is shifting from centralized and closed approaches in large data centers to a future of centers of data everywhere, which are highly decentralized and distributed. This shift demands a unified cloud platform that can put the agility and intelligence close to customers data sources to create real-time insights everywhere. We believe the cloud experience should be open and seamless across all our customers' clouds, rather than requiring customers to be locked into a cloud stack. Multi-year innovation roadmap and strong balance sheet. We have been in the technology and innovation business for over 80 years. Our vast intellectual property portfolio and global research and development capabilities are part of a broader innovation roadmap designed to help organizations take advantage of the expanding amount of data available and leverage the latest technology developments such as cloud, artificial intelligence, supercomputing, and cybersecurity to drive business transformations now and in the future. We also have a strong balance sheet and liquidity profile that provide the financial flexibility and speed to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. Global distribution and partner ecosystem. We are experts in delivering innovative technological solutions to our customers in complex multi-country, multi-vendor, and/or multi-language environments. We have expansive go-to-market capabilities, including a large ecosystem of channel partners, which enables us to market and deliver our product offerings to customers located virtually anywhere in the world. Our HPE GreenLake cloud provides open cloud application programming interfaces to our partners, enabling them to better offer their unique solutions to customers. 4 Table of Conte n t Custom financial solutions. Through our FS segment, we help customers create investment capacity to accelerate their transformations by helping them free up capital, capture value from older assets, achieve sustainability goals, invest in new technologies aaS, and weather financial volatility. FS is also an enabler of our consumption-based IT models by helping spread our upfront solution costs over the duration of the customer contract. Through FS Technology Renewal Centers, we are helping customers achieve their own sustainability goals by refurbishing technology assets for reuse. Experienced leadership team. Our management team has an extensive track record of performance and execution. We are led by our President and Chief Executive Officer, Antonio Neri, who has proven experience in developing transformative business models, building global brands, and driving sustained growth and expansion in the technology industry. Mr. Neri's experience includes more than 25 years combined at HPE and Hewlett-Packard Company ( HP Co. ) in various leadership positions. Our senior management team has many years of experience in our industry and possesses extensive knowledge of and experience in the enterprise IT business and the markets in which we compete. Sales, Marketing, and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the segments described above. Our customers are organized by commercial and large enterprise groups, including business and public sector enterprises, and purchases of our products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by us or indirectly through a variety of partners, including: resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our solutions to resellers; original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) that integrate our products and services with their own products and services, and sell the integrated solution; independent software vendors that provide their clients with specialized software products and often assist us in selling our products and services to clients purchasing their products; systems integrators that provide expertise in designing and implementing custom IT solutions and often partner with us to extend their expertise or influence the sale of our products and services; and advisory firms that provide various levels of management and IT consulting, including some systems integration work, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our unique products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel differs substantially by business and region. We believe that customer buying patterns and different regional market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing, and distribution efforts accordingly. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our coverage, in addition to identifying efficiencies and productivity gains, in both our direct and indirect businesses. This has resulted in a combined go-to-market model, in which we have a direct sales presence in a number of countries, while we sell and deliver our products, solutions, and services through a channel-only model in the remaining countries. In those countries where we have a direct sales presence, we follow a bifurcated sales operational model with separate go-to-market routes for high-velocity, transactional hardware sales, on the one hand and for services and solutions, on the other hand. Also, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers as well as with large public sector accounts. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise. For other customers, our businesses collaborate to manage relationships with commercial resellers targeting smaller accounts, both in the commercial and public sector space. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced and contract manufacturers around the world to manufacture products that we design. The use of outsourced and contract manufacturers is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for our products as well as create manufacturing flexibility in our supply chain and processes. In some circumstances, third-party OEMs produce products that we purchase and resell under our brand. In addition to our use of outsourced and contract manufacturers, we currently manufacture a limited number of finished products from components and subassemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. Historically, we have utilized two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer's particular hardw