Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. Reserved 33 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 121 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 121 Item 9B. Other Information 121 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 121 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 122 Item 11. Executive Compensation 122 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 122 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 122 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 123 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 124 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 132 In this report on Form 10-K, for all periods presented, we , us , our , the company , the Company , HP and HP Inc. refer to HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) and its consolidated subsidiaries. 2 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Business in Item 1 and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, they could affect the business and results of operations of HP Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries ( HP ) may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, any statements regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges, planned structural cost reductions and productivity initiatives; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including, but not limited to, our business model and transformation, our sustainability goals, our go-to-market strategy, the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue or profitability improvements or other financial impacts; any statements concerning the expected development, demand, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements concerning potential supply constraints, component shortages, manufacturing disruptions or logistics challenges; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims, disputes or other litigation matters; any statements of expectation or belief as to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business combination and investment transactions (including the acquisition of Plantronics, Inc. ( Poly )); and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements can also generally be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business and results of operations include factors relating to: the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends, changes and events, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine and tension across the Taiwan Strait and the regional and global ramifications of these events; recent volatility in global capital markets, increases in benchmark interest rates and the effects of inflation; risks associated with HP s international operations; the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners, including logistical challenges with respect to such execution and performance; changes in estimates and assumptions HP makes in connection with the preparation of its financial statements the need to manage (and reliance on) third-party suppliers, including with respect to component shortages, and the need to manage HP s global, multi-tier distribution network, limit potential misuse of pricing programs by HP s channel partners, adapt to new or changing marketplaces and effectively deliver HP s services; HP s ability to execute on its strategic plans, including the previously announced initiatives, business model changes and transformation; execution of planned structural cost reductions and productivity initiatives; HP s ability to complete any contemplated share repurchases, other capital return programs or other strategic transactions; the competitive pressures faced by HP s businesses; risks associated with executing HP s strategy and business model changes and transformation; successfully innovating, developing and executing HP s go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, in an evolving distribution, reseller and customer landscape; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet evolving customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; successfully competing and maintaining the value proposition of HP s products, including supplies; 3 challenges to HP s ability to accurately forecast inventories, demand and pricing, which may be due to HP s multi-tiered channel, sales of HP s products to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of HP s products or our uneven sales cycle; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the results of our restructuring plans (including the 2023 plan), including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP s business) and the anticipated benefits of our restructuring plans; the protection of HP s intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; the hiring and retention of key employees; disruptions in operations from system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks, extreme weather conditions or other effects of climate change, medical epidemics or pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events; the impact of changes to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including environmental regulations and tax laws; our aspirations related to environmental, social and governance matters; potential impacts, liabilities and costs from pending or potential investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in HP s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Forward-looking and other statements in this report may also address our corporate sustainability or responsibility progress, plans, and goals (including environmental matters), and the inclusion of such statements is not an indication that these contents are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in HP s filings with the SEC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. The forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this filing and HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business. Business Overview We are a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services. We sell to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses ( SMBs ) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. On November 1, 2015, we completed the separation (the Separation ) of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company ( Hewlett Packard Enterprise ), Hewlett-Packard Company s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses. HP Products and Services; Segment Information We have three reportable segments: Personal Systems, Printing and Corporate Investments. The Personal Systems segment offers commercial and consumer desktop and notebook personal computers ( PCs ), workstations, thin clients, commercial mobility devices, retail point-of-sale ( POS ) systems, displays and peripherals, software, support and services. The Printing segment provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, services and solutions. Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation and investment projects. Personal Systems Personal Systems offers commercial and consumer desktop and notebook PCs, workstations, thin clients, commercial mobility devices, retail POS systems, displays and peripherals, software, support and services. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops, commercial services, commercial mobility devices, commercial detachables and convertibles, workstations, retail POS systems and thin clients into commercial PCs and consumer notebooks, consumer desktops, consumer services and consumer detachables into consumer PCs when describing performance in these markets. Both commercial and consumer PCs maintain multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategies using Microsoft Windows and Google Chrome operating systems, and predominantly use processors from Intel Corporation ( Intel ) and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ( AMD ). Commercial PCs are optimized for use by enterprise, public sector (which includes education), and SMBs customers, with a focus on robust design, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in the customer s environment and working remotely. Commercial PCs include HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks, convertibles, and detachables, HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP Pro Tablet PCs and the HP notebook, desktop and Chromebook systems. Commercial PCs also include workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations. Additionally, we offer a range of services and solutions to enterprise, public sector (which includes education), and SMBs customers to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base. Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on gaming, learning and working remotely, consuming multi-media for entertainment, managing personal life activities, staying connected, sharing information, getting things done for work including creating content, and staying informed and secure. These systems include HP Spectre, HP Envy, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, HP Stream, Omen by HP lines of notebooks, desktops and hybrids, HP Envy, HP Pavilion desktops and all-in-one lines. Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Notebooks consists of consumer notebooks, commercial notebooks, mobile workstations, peripherals, and commercial mobility devices; Desktops includes consumer desktops, commercial desktops, thin clients, displays, peripherals, and retail POS systems; Workstations consists of desktop workstations, displays and peripherals; and Other consists of consumer and commercial services, Poly products and services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities. Printing Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, services and solutions. Printing is also focused on Graphics and 3D imaging solutions in the commercial and industrial markets. Our global business capabilities within Printing are described below: Office Printing Solutions delivers HP s office printers, supplies, services, and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises. It also includes Original Equipment Manufacturer ( OEM ) hardware and solutions, and some Samsung-branded supplies. Home Printing Solution s delivers innovative printing products, supplies, services and solutions for the home, home business and micro business customers utilizing both HP s Ink and Laser technologies. It also includes some Samsung-branded supplies. 5 Table of Contents Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions and supplies to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses). 3D Printing and Digital Manufacturing offers a portfolio of additive manufacturing solutions and supplies to help customers succeed in their additive and digital manufacturing journey. HP offers complete solutions in collaboration with an ecosystem of partners. Printing groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Commercial consists of office printing solutions, graphics solutions and 3D printing and digital manufacturing, excluding supplies; Consumer consists of home printing solutions, excluding supplies; and Supplies comprises a set of highly innovative consumable products, ranging from ink and laser cartridges to media, graphics supplies and 3D printing and digital manufacturing supplies, for recurring use in consumer and commercial hardware. Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation and investment projects. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, utilizing their own physical or internet stores or an omnichannel combination of the two, including: retailers that sell our products to the public focusing on consumers and SMBs; resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our products and solutions to resellers; and system integrators and other business intermediaries that provide various levels of services, including systems integration work and as-a-service solutions, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel sales differs by business and geographic market. We believe that customer buying patterns and different geographic market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts to the geographic market and sub-geographic specificities for each of our businesses. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our market coverage while identifying efficiencies and productivity gains in both our direct and indirect routes to market. Our businesses collaborate to accomplish strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise and drives both direct and indirect sales to their assigned customers. For other customers and for consumers, we typically manage both direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers mainly targeting consumers and SMBs and commercial resellers mainly targeting SMBs and mid-market accounts. See Risk Factors If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ( OMs ) around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party suppliers produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. Additionally, we manufacture finished products from components and sub-assemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer s hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. We purchase materials, supplies and product sub-assemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing or readily available alternate sources of supply. However, we have relied on sole sources for some laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations, mitigating the effect of a disruption). For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of A3 portfolio laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon. Any decision by either 6 Table of Contents party not to renew our agreement with Canon or to limit or reduce the scope of the agreement could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and anticipate renewal of this agreement. We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft and Google for various software products. We believe that disruptions with these suppliers would have industry-wide ramifications, and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See Risk Factors We are heavily dependent on third-party suppliers and supply chain issues have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our financial results in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference, for additional information on our reliance on single-source suppliers. Like other participants in the information technology ( IT ) industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supplies. See Risk Factors We are heavily dependent on third-party suppliers and supply chain issues have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our financial results in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Sustainability also plays an important role in the manufacturing and sourcing of materials and components for our products. We strive to make our products and packaging in an ethical and sustainable manner. We have committed to building an efficient, resilient and sustainable supplier network, and we collaborate with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, and to reduce the environmental impact of their operations. These actions, together with our broader sustainability program, help us in our effort to meet customer sustainability requirements and comply with regulations, such as supplier labor practices and conflict minerals disclosures. For more information on our sustainability goals, programs, and performance, we refer you to our annual Sustainable Impact Report, available on our website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). International Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet both consumer and enterprise customers demand on a worldwide basis and draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce. This provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. We believe that our broad geographic presence as well as our focus on diversity and inclusion, gives us a solid base on which to build future growth. See "Risk Factors Due to the international nature of our business, geopolitical or economic changes or events, uncertainty or other factors could harm our business and financial performance" and "We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our results" in Item 1A, which are incorporated herein by reference. Research and Development Innovation across products, services, business models and processes is a key element of our culture and success. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers experiences. HP Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, is responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our Corporate Investments segment. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see Risk Factors If we cannot successfully execute our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Patents Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2022, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 28,000 patents, including patents acquired as a result of our acquisition of Plantronics, Inc. ( Poly ) in August 2022. Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP s business segments. 7 Table of Contents In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property ( IP ) from third parties. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. For a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see Risk Factors Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot develop, obtain, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend and Risk Factors Third-party claims of IP infringement are commonplace in our industry and may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Seasonality General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Historical seasonal patterns may not continue in the future and have been impacted by supply constraints, shifts in customer behavior and the evolving impacts of macroeconomic challenges and different demand dynamics. See Risk Factors Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable, in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Competition We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service, support and solutions including subscription-based offerings and financing, security, availability of application software, and our sustainability performance. The markets for each of our key business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. We have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our key business segments. The competitive environment in which each key segment operates is described below: Personal Systems. The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition and introduction of new products and solutions. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group Limited, Dell Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. In particular geographies, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or white box manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation, and research and development capabilities including security features, our innovative design work, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Printing . The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing s key customer segments each face competitive market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd. and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer non-original supplies (including imitation, refill and remanufactured alternatives), which are often available for lower prices but which can also offer lower print quality and reliability compared to HP original inkjet and toner supplies. These and other competing products are often sold alongside our products through onl