Item 1. Business 5 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 28 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6. Reserved 33 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 48 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B. Other Information 106 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 106 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 107 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 108 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 109 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 115 In this report on Form 10-K, for all periods presented, we , us , our , the company , the Company , HP and HP Inc. refer to HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) and its consolidated subsidiaries. 2 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Business in Item 1 and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, they could affect the business and results of operations of HP Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries which may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges, planned structural cost reductions and productivity initiatives; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including, but not limited to, our business model and transformation, our sustainability goals, our go-to-market strategy, the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings (including the Fiscal 2023 Plan (as defined herein)), net revenue or profitability improvements or other financial impacts; any statements concerning the expected development, demand, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements concerning potential supply constraints, component shortages, manufacturing disruptions or logistics challenges; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims, disputes or other litigation matters; any statements of expectation or belief as to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business combination and investment transactions; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements can also generally be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our business and results of operations include factors relating to: HP s ability to execute on its strategic plans, including the previously announced initiatives, business model changes and transformation; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet evolving customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends, including artificial intelligence; the use of artificial intelligence; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends, changes and events, including the ongoing military conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East or tensions in the Taiwan Strait and South China Sea and the regional and global ramifications of these events; volatility in global capital markets and foreign currency, increases in benchmark interest rates, the effects of inflation and instability of financial institutions; risks associated with HP s international operations and the effects of business disruption events, including those resulting from climate change; the need to manage (and reliance on) third-party suppliers, including with respect to supply constraints and component shortages, and the need to manage HP s global, multi-tier distribution network and potential misuse of pricing programs by HP s channel partners, adapt to new or changing marketplaces and effectively deliver HP s services; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners, including logistical challenges with respect to such execution and performance; the competitive pressures faced by HP s businesses; the impact of third-party claims of IP infringement; successfully innovating, developing and executing HP s go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, in an evolving distribution, reseller and customer landscape; successfully competing and maintaining the value proposition of HP s products, including supplies and services; challenges to HP s ability to accurately forecast inventories, demand and pricing, which may be due to HP s multi-tiered channel, sales of HP s products to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of HP s products or our uneven sales cycle; the hiring and retention of key employees; 3 the results of our restructuring plans (including the Fiscal 2023 Plan), including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP s business) and the anticipated benefits of our restructuring plans; the protection of HP s intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; disruptions in operations from system security risks, data protection breaches, or cyberattacks; HP s ability to maintain its credit rating, satisfy its debt obligations and complete any contemplated share repurchases, other capital return programs or other strategic transactions; changes in estimates and assumptions HP makes in connection with the preparation of its financial statements; the impact of changes to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including environmental regulations and tax laws; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; our aspirations related to environmental, social and governance matters; potential impacts, liabilities and costs from pending or potential investigations, claims and disputes; the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in HP s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). HP s Future Ready Plan includes HP's efforts to take advantage of future growth opportunities, including but not limited to, investments to drive growth, investments in our people, improving product mix, driving structural cost savings and other productivity measures. Structural cost savings represent gross reductions in costs driven by operational efficiency, digital transformation, and portfolio optimization. These initiatives include but are not limited to workforce reductions, platform simplification, programs consolidation and productivity measures undertaken by HP, which HP expects to be sustainable in the longer-term. These structural cost savings are net of any new recurring costs resulting from these initiatives and exclude one-time investments to generate such savings. HP s expectations on the longer-term sustainability of such structural cost savings are based on its current business operations and market dynamics and could be significantly impacted by various factors, including but not limited to HP s evolving business models, future investment decisions, market environment and technology landscape. Forward-looking and other statements in this report may also address our corporate sustainability or responsibility progress, plans, and goals (including environmental matters), and the inclusion of such statements is not an indication that these contents are necessarily material to HP, investors or other stakeholders or required to be disclosed in HP s filings, in each case, under U.S. securities or any other laws or requirements that may be applicable to HP. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. The forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this filing and HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business. Overview HP is a global technology leader and creator of solutions that enable people to bring their ideas to life and connect to the things that matter most. Operating in more than 170 countries, HP delivers innovative and sustainable devices, services and subscriptions for personal computing, printing, 3D printing, hybrid work, gaming and other related technologies. We believe artificial intelligence ( AI ) is playing a critical role in the transformation of how people live and work, and customers are beginning to recognize the benefits in security, speed and cost. Our high-performing product portfolio includes HP s new line of AI PCs and workstations built with the computing power to enable local AI processing for enhanced performance and features as well as intelligent print features incorporated into our home, office and graphics solutions. Our broad range of security capabilities are designed to protect an increasingly distributed user base through security enhanced PCs and printers, hardware-enforced endpoint security software (for both HP and non-HP PCs), and endpoint security services. Our security solutions provide layered resiliency using enhanced features such as containment and isolation technology as well as the use of AI deep-learning to identify and remove malware threats. We have three reportable segments: Personal Systems, Printing and Corporate Investments. Personal Systems Personal Systems offers desktops, notebooks, and workstations (including HP s portfolio of AI PCs and workstations), thin clients, retail point-of-sale ( POS ) systems, displays, hybrid systems, software, solutions including endpoint security and services. Personal Systems includes support and deployment, configurations and extended warranty services and maintains multi-operating system and multi-architecture strategies using Microsoft Windows and Google Chrome operating systems, and predominantly uses processors from Intel, AMD, and NVIDIA. Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Commercial PS consists of endpoint computing devices and hybrid systems, for use by enterprise, public sector (which includes education), and small- and medium-sized business ( SMB ) customers. These devices include our Pro and Elite commercial PC portfolio, our Z line of workstations, thin clients, retail POS systems, and HP s Dragonfly and Chromebook PCs. HP offers a range of secure services and solutions to commercial customers to help them manage the lifecycle of their PCs and mobility installed base. Consumer PS consists of devices, accessories and services which are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on gaming, learning and working remotely, consuming multi-media for entertainment, managing personal life activities, sharing information and staying connected, informed, and secure. These devices include our new Omni consumer PC portfolio, the Omen and Victus gaming lines, and HP s Spectre, Envy, Pavilion and Chromebook PCs. Printing Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, services and solutions. Printing is also focused on Graphics and 3D Printing and Personalization in the commercial and industrial markets. Our global business capabilities within Printing are described below: Office Printing Solutions delivers HP s security enhanced office printers, supplies, services, and solutions to SMBs, public sector and large enterprises. It also includes Original Equipment Manufacturer ( OEM ) hardware and solutions. Home Printing Solution s delivers innovative and security enhanced printing products, supplies, services and solutions for the home, home business and micro business customers utilizing both HP s Ink and Laser technologies. Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions and supplies to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses. 3D Printing Personalization offers a portfolio of additive manufacturing solutions and supplies to help customers succeed in their additive and digital manufacturing journey. HP offers complete solutions in collaboration with an ecosystem of partners. Printing groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Commercial Printing consists of office printing solutions, graphics solutions and 3D printing and personalization, excluding supplies; Consumer Printing consists of home printing solutions, excluding supplies; and 5 Table of Contents Supplies comprises a set of highly innovative consumable products, ranging from ink and laser cartridges to media, industrial graphics supplies and 3D printing and personalization supplies, for recurring use in consumer and commercial hardware. Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes certain business incubation and investment projects. Competition We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service, support and solutions including subscription-based offerings and financing, security, availability of application software, and our sustainable impact. The markets for each of our key business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively based on the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. The competitive environment in which each key segment operates is described below: Personal Systems. The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition and introduction of new products and solutions. Our primary competitors are Acer Inc., Apple Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Dell Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Lenovo Group Limited, Logitech International S.A., Microsoft Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation. In certain geographies, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or white box manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation, and research and development capabilities including security features, our innovative design work, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings, the accessibility of our products and the execution of our broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Printing . The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing s key customer segments each face competitive market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Brother Industries, Ltd., Canon Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Pantum, Seiko Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd., and Xerox Corporation Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer non-original supplies (including imitation, refill and remanufactured alternatives), which are often available for lower prices, but which can also offer lower print quality and reliability compared to HP original inkjet and toner supplies. These and other competing products are often sold alongside our products through online or omnichannel resellers, retailers or distributors, or such resellers, retailers and distributors may highlight the availability of lower cost non-original supplies. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive high-quality solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation, and research and development capabilities including security features, sustainability, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, utilizing their own physical or internet stores or an omnichannel combination of the two, including: retailers that sell our products to the public focusing on consumers and SMBs; resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our products and solutions to resellers and retailers in certain geographies; and system integrators and other business intermediaries that provide various levels of services, including systems integration work and as-a-service solutions, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our products and services. 6 Table of Contents The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel sales differs by business and geographic market. We believe that customer buying patterns and different geographic market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts to the geographic market and sub-geographic specificities for each of our businesses. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our market coverage while identifying efficiencies and productivity gains in both our direct and indirect routes to market. Our businesses collaborate to accomplish strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise and drives both direct and indirect sales to their assigned customers. For other customers and for consumers, we typically manage both direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers mainly targeting consumers and SMBs and commercial resellers mainly targeting SMBs, mid-market accounts, public sector and large enterprises. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize outsourced manufacturers ( OMs ) around the world to manufacture HP-designed products to generate cost efficiencies, reduce time to market, and maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. We also manufacture finished products from components and sub-assemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. Building products to order maximizes manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables products to match a customer s hardware and software customization requirements. Like other participants in the information technology ( IT ) industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. We also may acquire component inventory in times of growth or in anticipation of significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. Additionally, while most of our products have existing or readily available alternative sources of supply, some of our components are obtained from a single source due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. Research and Development Innovation across products, services, business models and processes is a key element of our culture and success. We are focused on developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends, including accelerating the delivery of AI throughout our product portfolio. We continue to invest in innovation in both the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and where strategic partnerships will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers experiences. Intellectual Property We seek patent protection for inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will maintain or improve our competitive position. As of October 31, 2024, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 22,000 patents which expire at various dates, generally 20 years from their original filing dates. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP s business segments. In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property ( IP ) from third parties. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. 7 Table of Contents Seasonality We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Historical seasonal patterns may be impacted by supply constraints, shifts in customer behavior and the evolving impacts of macroeconomic challenges. Sustainability and Environmental, Social, and Governance Activities At HP, we believe how we do things is just as important as what we do. Our Sustainable Impact goals reflect our efforts to tackle key issues in Climate, Human Rights, and Digital Equity. For more information on our sustainability goals, programs, and performance, including our methodology for calculating progress towards our GHG and other sustainability goals, we refer you to our annual Sustainable Impact Report, available on our website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). Environment Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We proactively evaluate and at times replace materials in our products and supply chain, taking into account, among other things, published lists of substances of concern, new and upcoming legal requirements, customer preferences and scientific analysis that indicates a potential impact to human health or the environment. We are committed to complying with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. This commitment is reflected and outlined in our Sustainable Impact goals, our comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. Human Capital HP employs approximately 58,000 employees in 59 countries. Together, they power HP innovation by applying their diverse skills and perspectives to create transformative solutions for our partners and customers worldwide. Our aim is to attract and retain exceptional talent by providing engaging work experiences that help our employees thrive. We promote ongoing learning and development, offer comprehensive compensation and benefits, and focus on health, safety, and well-being to set employees up to do their best work and achieve their career aspirations. To deliver on these priorities, HP senior leaders are accountable for meeting management by objective ( MBO ) goals for employee engagement, diversity and inclusion, and leadership development. Employee Engagement We regularly collect feedback from employees to better understand and improve their workplace experiences and to identify ways to strengthen our culture. In fiscal year 2024, 90% of employees participated in our annual survey, and we continued to see strong overall engagement, exceeding top quartile benchmarks for most of the external comparisons we track. We saw similar strength in our internal inclusion index, and employees demonstrated their engagement by providing a high volume of written comments in this year s survey. Beyond the annual survey, we regularly seek out employee feedback through a variety of pulse polls and take action to address their ideas, suggestions, and concerns. Talent Development We have a multi-faceted talent, learning, and skill-development strategy. First, we emphasize diversity of backgrounds, experience, and perspectives in our senior talent pipeline, and invest in targeted approaches such as leadership assessments, external education opportunities, coaching, job rotations, and immersive, experiential learning to ensure our executives are equipped to lead HP, both now and in the future. We also support talent through an extensive portfolio of internal and external development programs designed to accelerate their career growth. Additionally, we prepare new people managers with development experiences designed, among other things, to build coaching skills and champion inclusion. We are committed to the continuous growth of employees. We provide enterprise-wide skill development solutions and resources that focus on the critical skills all employees need to perform at their best in their jobs today and in the future. In partnership with industry thought partners and internal experts, HP offers learning opportunities in key areas such as software development, artificial intelligence, data science, product management, communications, change agility, and strategic thinking. HP prioritizes skill development experiences that accommodate employee-specific needs and demanding schedules, with an emphasis on learning that drives immediate application and measurable behavior change. In addition to skill development resources, HP also offers formal education assistance through our Degree Assistance Program which provides employees with the opportunity to participate in higher academic education. 8 Table of Contents Hybrid Work Strategy At HP, hybrid work balances workplace flexibility with time working together to collaborate and connect in person at our sites. Our goal is to provide the ability to work seamlessly across a diverse ecosystem of workplaces, enabled by enhanced tools and technology designed to optimize productivity and collaboration. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We strive to create an inclusive workplace where everyone can bring their unique perspectives to work and reach their full potential. This commitment is at the heart of our innovation model, where people with diverse backgrounds, knowledge, and experiences collaborate to create breakthrough technologies and deliver valued solutions to our customers. We also strive to ensure equal opp