Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 28 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 51 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 120 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 120 Item 9B. Other Information 120 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 121 Item 11. Executive Compensation 121 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 121 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 121 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 122 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 123 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 131 In this report on Form 10-K, for all periods presented, we , us , our , the company , the Company , HP and HP Inc. refer to HP Inc. (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) and its consolidated subsidiaries. 2 Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Business in Item 1 and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries ( HP ) may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, any statements regarding the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the situation; projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange rates or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges, planned structural cost reductions and productivity initiatives; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including, but not limited to, our business model and transformation, our sustainability goals, our go-to-market strategy the execution of restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue or profitability improvements or other financial impacts; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief, including with respect to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business combination and investment transactions; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements can also generally be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, will, would, could, can, may, and similar terms. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include factors relating to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the situation, the effects of which may give rise to or amplify the risks associated with many of these factors listed here; HP s ability to execute on its strategic plan, including the previously announced initiatives, business model changes and transformation; execution of planned structural cost reductions and productivity initiatives; HP s ability to complete any contemplated share repurchases, other capital return programs or other strategic transactions; the need to address the many challenges facing HP s businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP s businesses; risks associated with executing HP s strategy and business model changes and transformation; successfully innovating, developing and executing HP s go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, in an evolving distribution and reseller landscape; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; successfully competing and maintaining the value proposition of HP s products, including supplies; the need to manage third-party suppliers, manage HP s global, multi-tier distribution network, limit potential misuse of pricing programs by HP s channel partners, adapt to new or changing marketplaces and effectively deliver HP s services; challenges to HP s ability to accurately forecast inventories, demand and pricing, which may be due to HP s multi-tiered channel, sales of HP s products to unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale of HP s products; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the results of the restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP s business) and the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plans; the protection of HP s intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; the hiring and retention of key employees; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; risks associated with HP s international operations; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients and partners; disruptions in operations from system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events; the impact of changes in tax laws; potential impacts, liabilities and costs from pending or potential investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described herein, including but not limited to the items discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of this report and that are otherwise described or updated from time to time in HP s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date of this filing and HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. 3 Table of Co ntents PART I ITEM 1. Business. Business Overview We are a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions and services. We sell to individual consumers, small- and medium-sized businesses ( SMBs ) and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health and education sectors. As part of the separation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company ( Hewlett Packard Enterprise ), Hewlett-Packard Company s former enterprise technology infrastructure, software, services and financing businesses (the Separation ) on November 1, 2015, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise entered into a separation and distribution agreement, an employee matters agreement and various other agreements which remain enforceable that provide a framework for the continuing relationships between the parties. HP Products and Services; Segment Information We have three reportable segments: Personal Systems, Printing and Corporate Investments. The Personal Systems segment offers commercial and consumer desktop and notebook personal computers ( PCs ), workstations, thin clients, commercial mobility devices, retail point-of-sale ( POS ) systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support and services. The Printing segment provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, services and solutions, as well as scanning devices. Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation and investment projects. Personal Systems Personal Systems offers commercial and consumer desktop and notebook PCs, workstations, thin clients, commercial mobility devices, retail POS systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support and services. We group commercial notebooks, commercial desktops, commercial services, commercial mobility devices, commercial detachables and convertibles, workstations, retail POS systems and thin clients into commercial PCs and consumer notebooks, consumer desktops, consumer services and consumer detachables into consumer PCs when describing performance in these markets. Both commercial and consumer PCs maintain a multi-operating system, multi-architecture strategies using Microsoft Windows, Google Chrome, Android operating systems and use predominantly processors from Intel Corporation ( Intel ) and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ( AMD ). Commercial PCs are optimized for use by enterprise, public sector which includes education, and SMB customers, with a focus on robust designs, security, serviceability, connectivity, reliability and manageability in networked and cloud-based environments. Commercial PCs include the HP ProBook and HP EliteBook lines of notebooks, convertibles, and detachables, the HP Pro and HP Elite lines of business desktops and all-in-ones, retail POS systems, HP Thin Clients, HP Pro Tablet PCs and the HP notebook, desktop and Chromebook systems. Commercial PCs also include workstations that are designed and optimized for high-performance and demanding application environments including Z desktop workstations, Z all-in-ones and Z mobile workstations. Additionally, we offer a range of services and solutions to enterprise, public sector and SMB customers to help them manage the lifecycle of their PC and mobility installed base. Consumer PCs are optimized for consumer usage, focusing on gaming, learning and working remotely, consuming multi-media for entertainment, managing personal life activities, staying connected, sharing information, getting things done for work including creating content, staying informed and secure. These systems include HP Spectre, HP Envy, HP Pavilion, HP Chromebook, HP Stream, Omen by HP lines of notebooks and hybrids and HP Envy, HP Pavilion desktops and all-in-one lines, and Omen by HP desktops. Personal Systems groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Notebooks consists of consumer notebooks, commercial notebooks, mobile workstations and commercial mobility devices; Desktops includes consumer desktops, commercial desktops, thin clients, and retail POS systems; Workstations consists of desktop workstations and accessories; and Other consists of consumer and commercial services as well as other Personal Systems capabilities. Printing Printing provides consumer and commercial printer hardware, supplies, services and solutions. Printing is also focused on Graphics and 3D imaging solutions in the commercial and industrial markets. HP goes to market through its extensive channel network and directly with HP sales. Our global business capabilities within Printing are described below: Office Printing Solutions delivers HP s office printers, supplies, services, and solutions to SMBs and large enterprises. It also includes Original Equipment Manufacturer ( OEM ) hardware and solutions, and some Samsung-branded supplies. Home Printing Solution s delivers innovative printing products, supplies, services and solutions for the home, home business and micro business customers utilizing both HP s Ink and Laser technologies. It also includes some Samsung-branded supplies. 4 Table of Co ntents Graphics Solutions delivers large-format, commercial and industrial solutions and supplies to print service providers and packaging converters through a wide portfolio of printers and presses (HP DesignJet, HP Latex, HP Indigo and HP PageWide Web Presses). 3D Printing and Digital Manufacturing offers a portfolio of additive manufacturing solutions and supplies to help customers succeed in their additive and digital manufacturing journey. HP offers complete solutions in collaboration with an ecosystem of partners. Printing groups its global business capabilities into the following business units when reporting business performance: Commercial Hardware consists of office printing solutions, graphics solutions and 3D printing and digital manufacturing, excluding supplies; Consumer Hardware consists of home printing solutions, excluding supplies; and Supplies comprises a set of highly innovative consumable products, ranging from ink and laser cartridges to media, graphics supplies and 3D printing and digital manufacturing supplies, for recurring use in consumer and commercial hardware. Corporate Investments Corporate Investments includes HP Labs and certain business incubation and investment projects. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We manage our business and report our financial results based on the business segments described above. Our customers are organized by consumer and commercial groups, and purchases of HP products, solutions and services may be fulfilled directly by HP or indirectly through a variety of partners, utilizing their own physical or internet stores or an omnichannel combination of the two, including: retailers that sell our products to the public focusing on consumers and small- and medium-sized businesses; resellers that sell our products and services, frequently with their own value-added products or services, to targeted customer groups; distribution partners that supply our products and solutions to resellers; and system integrators and other business intermediaries that provide various levels of services, including systems integration work and as-a-service solutions, and typically partner with us on client solutions that require our products and services. The mix of our business conducted by direct sales or channel sales differs by business and geographic market. We believe that customer buying patterns and different geographic market conditions require us to tailor our sales, marketing and distribution efforts to the geographic market and sub-geographic specificities for each of our businesses. We are focused on driving the depth and breadth of our market coverage while identifying efficiencies and productivity gains in both our direct and indirect routes to market. Our businesses collaborate to accomplish strategic and process alignment where appropriate. For example, we typically assign an account manager to manage relationships across our business with large enterprise customers. The account manager is supported by a team of specialists with product and services expertise and drives both direct and indirect sales to their assigned customers. For other customers and for consumers, we typically manage both direct online sales as well as channel relationships with retailers mainly targeting consumers and small businesses and commercial resellers mainly targeting SMBs and mid-market accounts. Manufacturing and Materials We utilize a significant number of outsourced manufacturers ( OMs ) around the world to manufacture HP-designed products. The use of OMs is intended to generate cost efficiencies and reduce time to market for HP-designed products. We use multiple OMs to maintain flexibility in our supply chain and manufacturing processes. In some circumstances, third-party suppliers produce products that we purchase and resell under the HP brand. Additionally, we manufacture finished products from components and sub-assemblies that we acquire from a wide range of vendors. We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: building products to order and configuring products to order. We build products to order to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Alternatively, configuring products to order enables units to match a customer s hardware and software customization requirements. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both building products to order and configuring products to order seek to minimize inventory holding periods by taking delivery of the inventory and manufacturing shortly before the sale or distribution of products to our customers. We purchase materials, supplies and product sub-assemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or alternate sources of supply are readily available. However, we have relied on sole sources for some laser printer engines, LaserJet supplies, certain customized parts and parts for products with short life cycles (although some of these sources have operations in multiple locations, mitigating the effect of a disruption). For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of A3 portfolio laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges 5 Table of Co ntents from Canon. Any decision by either party not to renew our agreement with Canon or to limit or reduce the scope of the agreement could adversely affect our net revenue from LaserJet products; however, we have a long-standing business relationship with Canon and anticipate renewal of this agreement. We are dependent upon Intel and AMD as suppliers of x86 processors and Microsoft for various software products. We believe that disruptions with these suppliers would have industry-wide ramifications, and therefore would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See Risk Factors We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Like other participants in the information technology ( IT ) industry, we ordinarily acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our demand requirements for periods averaging 90 to 120 days. From time to time, we may experience significant price volatility or supply constraints for certain components that are not available from multiple sources. We also may acquire component inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supplies. See Risk Factors We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Sustainability also plays an important role in the manufacturing and sourcing of materials and components for our products. We strive to make our products in an ethical and sustainable manner. We have committed to building an efficient, resilient and sustainable supplier network, and we collaborate with our suppliers to improve their labor practices and working conditions, and to reduce the environmental impact of their operations. These actions, together with our broader sustainability program, help us in our effort to meet customer sustainability requirements and comply with regulations, for example, regarding supplier labor practices and conflict minerals disclosures. For more information on our sustainability goals, programs, and performance, we refer you to our annual sustainability report, available on our website (which is not incorporated by reference herein). International Our products and services are available worldwide. We believe this geographic diversity allows us to meet both consumer and enterprise customers demand on a worldwide basis and draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce. This provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. In addition, we believe that future growth is dependent in part on our ability to develop products and sales models that target developing countries. In this regard, we believe that our broad geographic presence as well as our focus on diversity and inclusion, gives us a solid base on which to build future growth. Research and Development Innovation across products, services, business models and processes is a key element of our culture. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers changing needs and desires, and emerging technological trends. Our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and the areas where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers experiences. HP Labs, together with the various research and development groups within our business segments, is responsible for our research and development efforts. HP Labs is part of our Corporate Investments segment. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products and services to maintain and enhance our competitive position. For a discussion of risks attendant to our research and development activities, see Risk Factors If we cannot successfully execute our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Patents Our general policy has been to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. At October 31, 2020, our worldwide patent portfolio included over 28,000 patents. Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. No single patent is essential to HP as a whole or to any of HP s business segments. 6 Table of Co ntents In addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property ( IP ) from third parties as we deem appropriate. We have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses, and other rights, under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. These license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. For a discussion of risks attendant to IP rights, see Risk Factors Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend , Risk Factors Our products and services depend in part on IP and technology licensed from third parties and Risk Factors Third-party claims of IP infringement are commonplace in our industry and may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Seasonality General economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which we sell our products and services experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months and consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand during the spring and early summer months also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. See Risk Factors Our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable, in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Competition We encounter strong competition in all areas of our business activity. We compete on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings, and our sustainability performance. The markets for each of our key business segments are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. Most product life cycles are short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above. In addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including OEMs that design, manufacture and often market their products under their own brand names. Our successful management of these competitive partner relationships will be critical to our future success. Moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. We have a broad technology portfolio spanning personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing-related products and services. We are the leader or among the leaders in each of our key business segments. The competitive environment in which each key segment operates is described below: Personal Systems. The markets in which Personal Systems operates are highly competitive and are characterized by price competition and introduction of new products and solutions. Our primary competitors are Lenovo Group Limited, Dell Inc., Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Acer Inc., ASUSTeK Computer Inc., Apple Inc., Toshiba Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. In particular geographies, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically-branded or white box manufacturers. Our competitive advantages include our broad product portfolio, our innovation and research and development capabilities including security features, our innovative design work, our brand and procurement leverage, our ability to cross-sell our portfolio of offerings, our extensive service and support offerings and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. Printing . The markets for printer hardware and associated supplies are highly competitive. Printing s key customer segments each face competitive market pressures in pricing and the introduction of new products. Our primary competitors include Canon Inc., Lexmark International, Inc., Xerox Corporation Ltd., Seiko Epson Corporation, The Ricoh Company Ltd. and Brother Industries, Ltd. In addition, independent suppliers offer non-original supplies (including imitation, refill and remanufactured alternatives), which are often available for lower prices but which can also offer lower print quality and reliability compared to HP original inkjet and toner supplies. These and other competing products are often sold alongside our products through online or omnichannel resellers or distributors, or such resellers and distributors may highlight the availability of lower cost non-original supplies. Our competitive advantages include our comprehensive high-quality solutions for the home, office and publishing environments, our innovation and research and development capabilities including security features, sustainability, our brand, and the accessibility of our products through a broad-based distribution strategy from retail and commercial channels to direct sales. For a discussion of risks attendant to these competitive factors, see Risk Factors We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance, in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. 7 Table of Co ntents Sustainability At HP, we believe in the power of technology to enable people and communities to change the world for the better. Sustainable impact is fundamental to our reinvention journey, fueling our innovation and growth, strengthening our business for the long term and enabling us to develop and deliver the best solutions to our customers. Our approach covers a broad range of sustainability issues across three pillars: Planet, People and Community. We prioritize issues based on their relative importance to our culture, business success and sustainable development. Planet . We aim to grow our business, not our footprint, and support our customers to do the same by transforming our entire business to drive a more efficient, circular, and low-carbon economy and by enabling our customers to invent the future through our most sustainable portfolio of products and services. People . We champion dignity, respect and empowerment for all people with whom we work, and strive to respect human rights and embed diversity and inclusio