Item 1. BUSINESS General Development of Business Hormel Foods Corporation, a Delaware corporation (collectively, the "Company", "we," "us,", "our"), was founded by George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota, as Geo. A. Hormel Company. The Company started as a processor of meat and food products and continues in this line of business with emphasis on the manufacturing and distribution of branded, value-added consumer items rather than commodity fresh meat products. The Company builds on its founder's legacy of innovation, quality, and integrity with focus on its purpose statement - Inspired People. Inspired Food. Today, the Company is a global branded food company bringing some of the most trusted and iconic brands to tables across the globe with over $12 billion in annual revenue in more than 80 countries. The Company has continually expanded its product portfolio through organic growth and acquisitions. In fiscal 2021, the Company acquired the Planters snack nuts business, expanding the Company's presence in the growing snacking space. Refer to Note B - Acquisitions and Divestitures for additional information. Description of Business Segments The Company manages and reports its operating results in the following four segments: Grocery Products, Refrigerated Foods, Jennie-O Turkey Store, and International Other. Net sales to unaffiliated customers, segment profit, and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment are reported in Note P - Segment Reporting of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Grocery Products: The Grocery Products segment primarily consists of the processing, marketing, and sale of shelf-stable food products sold predominantly in the retail market, along with the sale of nutritional and private label shelf-stable products to retail, foodservice, and industrial customers. This segment also includes the results from the Company s MegaMex Foods, LLC (MegaMex) joint venture. Refrigerated Foods: The Refrigerated Foods segment includes the processing, marketing, and sale of branded and unbranded pork, beef, and poultry products for retail, foodservice, deli, convenience store, and commercial customers. Jennie-O Turkey Store: The Jennie-O Turkey Store segment primarily consists of the processing, marketing, and sale of branded and unbranded turkey products for retail, foodservice, and commercial customers. International Other: The International Other segment includes Hormel Foods International, which manufactures, markets, and sells Company products internationally. This segment also includes the results from the Company s international royalty arrangements and other joint ventures. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, the Company announced a new strategic operating model, which aligns its businesses to be more agile, consumer and customer focused, and market driven. Effective in fiscal 2023, the Company will transition to this new model with the following three operating and reportable segments: Retail, Foodservice, and International. Prior period results will be reclassified to reflect these new reportable segments. Products and Distribution The Company develops, processes, and distributes a wide array of food products in a variety of markets and manufactures its products through various processing facilities and trusted co-manufacturers. The Company s products primarily consist of meat, nuts, and other food products sold across multiple distribution channels, such as U.S. Retail, U.S. Foodservice, and International. Domestically, the Company sells its products in all 50 states. The Company s products are sold through its sales personnel, who operate in assigned territories or in dedicated teams serving major customers and who are coordinated from sales offices predominately located in major U.S. cities. The Company also utilizes independent brokers and distributors. Products are primarily distributed by common carrier. Internationally, the Company markets its products through Hormel Foods International Corporation (HFIC), a wholly-owned subsidiary. HFIC has a global presence within several major international markets, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, England, Japan, Mexico, Micronesia, the Philippines, Singapore, and South Korea. Distribution of export sales to customers is by common carrier, while the China and Brazil operations own and operate their own delivery systems. The Company, through HFIC, has licensed companies to manufacture various products internationally on a royalty basis, with the primary licensees 3 Table of Contents being Danish Crown UK Ltd., and CJ CheilJedang Corporation. HFIC also has a minority position in a food company in the Philippines (The Purefoods-Hormel Company, Inc., 40 percent holding). Raw Materials The Company concentrates on the marketing and sale of branded, value-added food products. The principal raw materials used by the Company include pork, turkey, beef, chicken, and nuts. The Company takes a balanced approach to sourcing pork raw materials, including hogs purchased for the Austin, Minnesota processing facility, long-term supply agreements for pork, and spot market purchases of pork. The majority of the turkeys needed to meet raw material requirements are raised by the Company. Production costs from raising turkeys are subject to fluctuations in grain prices and fuel costs. To manage these risks, the Company uses futures, swaps, and options contracts to hedge a portion of its anticipated purchases. The Company also purchases raw materials from various suppliers. As the Company shifts its focus toward a more value-added portfolio, it has become increasingly dependent on these suppliers to meet its raw material needs. Certain raw materials, such as cashews, are sourced internationally, which may cause additional risks to pricing and availability. The Company utilizes supply contracts and forward buying strategies to ensure an adequate supply and mitigate price fluctuations. Human Capital The Company s employees are the driving force behind innovation, improvement, and success. As of October 30, 2022, the Company had more than 20,000 active employees, with over 90 percent located within the U.S. Approximately 20 percent of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Talent Acquisition, Development, and Retention Hormel s team members are the cornerstone of the Company and of the fulfillment of its purpose Inspired People. Inspired Food. The Company places great importance on the growth, development, and engagement of its team members. The Company offers a competitive compensation package and a multitude of benefits, including medical, life and disability insurance, contributory and non-contributory retirement savings plans, tuition reimbursement, and two years of tuition-free community and technical college for U.S. employees dependent children. The Company believes investing in the education, training, and development of employees contributes to the overall success of the business. The Company provides learning opportunities for employees through various training courses, including instructor-led internal and external programs and on-the-job training. The Company considers the tenure of its team members to be an important indicator of overall performance and is proud of its tenure figures. As of October 30, 2022, approximately 50 percent of the Company's team members had five or more years of service, and the 37-person officer team had an average of 25 years of service. During fiscal 2022, the Company faced productivity challenges related to high turnover and the need to train new team members at its manufacturing facilities. Overall, the turnover rate was 11 percent for salaried team members and 44 percent for hourly team members. The Company is focused on onboarding and training new team members and creating a best-in-class experience throughout the organization. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion The Company welcomes the diversity of all team members, customers, and consumers, and encourages the integration of their unique skills, thoughts, experiences, and identities. The Company s workforce is made up of approximately 40 percent female and over 55 percent underrepresented minorities. The Company s salaried employees are made up of over 30 percent female and approximately 20 percent underrepresented minorities. By fostering an inclusive culture, the Company enables every member of the workforce to leverage unique talents and high performance standards to drive innovation and success. Executives of the Company are held accountable for creating an inclusive, diverse workplace through their annual incentive plan, which includes a component focused on overall belonging scores and the representation of female and underrepresented minorities in salaried positions. The Company supports eleven employee resource groups (ERGs) that support the Company s mission to create a workplace where all people feel welcomed, respected, and valued. These employee-driven groups play a critical role in diversity, equity, and inclusion efforts and provide professional development and mentorship opportunities. Safety, Health, and Wellness The Company s dedicated corporate safety department develops and administers company-wide policies to ensure the safety of each employee and compliance with Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards. The corporate safety department also conducts regular audits of production facilities to ensure compliance with Company safety policies. The Company conducts safety training for all team members and completes approximately 1,000 safety assessments each month. 4 Table of Contents The Company recognizes that team members perform best when they are healthy and that optimal performance is necessary for the Company to achieve its key results. In addition to the health care benefits package, the Company s Inspired Health program aims to cultivate and maintain a culture of health and wellness that is focused on encouraging and empowering team members to make healthy lifestyle choices through awareness, prevention, and positive health behavior changes. This program includes biometric screenings, on-site fitness centers and fitness center discounts, an online health university with robust information and resources, a tobacco cessation program, wellness challenges, and confidential health and wellness support. Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters The Company s operations are subject to regulation by various governmental agencies which oversee areas such as food safety, workforce immigration, environmental laws, animal welfare, tax regulations, and the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of the Company s products. The Company believes it is in compliance with current laws and regulations and does not expect continued compliance to have a material impact on capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. The Company continues to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations and, while the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company does not expect compliance to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition to compliance with environmental laws and regulations, the Company sets goals to further improve its sustainability efforts and reduce its environmental impact. These goals are outlined in the Company s 20 by 30 Challenge and include matching energy with renewable sourcing, reducing organic waste and greenhouse gas emissions, supporting regenerative agriculture, focusing on packaging sustainability, and reducing food waste. Significant Customers The Company serves many customers throughout the world across various sales channels. Sales to the Company's largest customer, Walmart Inc. (Walmart), accounted for approximately 16 percent of consolidated gross sales less returns and allowances during fiscal 2022. Walmart is a customer in all four reportable segments. The Company's top five customers collectively represent approximately 36 percent of consolidated gross sales less returns and allowances. The loss of one or more of the top customers in any of the reportable segments could have a material adverse effect upon such segment's financial results. Competition The production and sale of meat and food products in the U.S. and internationally is highly competitive. The Company competes with manufacturers of pork and turkey products as well as national and regional producers of other meat and protein sources, such as beef, chicken, fish, nuts, and plant-based proteins. All operating segments compete on the basis of price, product quality and attributes, brand identification, breadth of product line, and customer service. Through effective marketing and strong quality assurance programs, the Company s strategy is to provide high quality products that possess strong brand recognition, which support higher value perceptions with customers. Patents and Trademarks There are numerous patents and trademarks important to the Company s business. The Company holds 41 U.S. and seven foreign patents. Most of the trademarks the Company uses are registered in the U.S. and other countries. Some of the more significant owned or licensed trademarks used by the Company or its affiliates are: HORMEL, ALWAYS TENDER, APPLEGATE, AUSTIN BLUES, BACON 1, BLACK LABEL, BREAD READY, BURKE, CAF H, CERATTI, CHI-CHI S, COLUMBUS, COMPLEATS, CORN NUTS, CURE 81, DAN S PRIZE, DI LUSSO, DINTY MOORE, DON MIGUEL, DO A MARIA, EMBASA, FAST N EASY, FIRE BRAISED, FONTANINI, HAPPY LITTLE PLANTS, HERDEZ, HORMEL GATHERINGS, HORMEL VITAL CUISINE, HOUSE OF TSANG, JENNIE-O, JUSTIN S, LA VICTORIA, LAYOUT, LLOYD S, MARY KITCHEN, NATURAL CHOICE, NUT-RITION, OLD SMOKEHOUSE, OVEN READY, PILLOW PACK, PLANTERS, ROSA GRANDE, SADLER'S SMOKEHOUSE, SKIPPY, SPAM, SPECIAL RECIPE, THICK EASY, VALLEY FRESH, and WHOLLY. The Company s patents expire after a term that is typically 20 years from the date of filing, with earlier expiration possible based on the Company s decision whether to pay required maintenance fees. As long as the Company continues to use its trademarks, they are renewed indefinitely. Available Information The Company makes available its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on its website at www.hormelfoods.com . These reports are accessible under the caption, Investors Filings Reports SEC Filings on the Company s website and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . The documents are available in print, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them. 5 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking information within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The forward-looking information may include statements concerning the Company s outlook for the future as well as other statements of beliefs, future plans, strategies, or anticipated events and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Reform Act) provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information. The Company is filing this cautionary statement in connection with the Reform Act. When used in the Company s Annual Report to Stockholders, other filings by the Company with the SEC, the Company's press releases, and oral statements made by the Company's representatives, the words or phrases "should result," "believe," "intend," "plan," "are expected to," "targeted," "will continue," "will approximate," "is anticipated," "estimate," "project," or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those anticipated or projected. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Reform Act, the Company is identifying risk factors that could affect financial performance and cause the Company s actual results to differ materially from opinions or statements expressed with respect to future periods. The following discussion of risk factors contains certain cautionary statements regarding the Company s business, which should be considered by investors and others. Such risk factors should be considered in conjunction with any discussions of operations or results by the Company or its representatives, including any forward-looking discussion, as well as comments contained in press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, or other communications by the Company. In making these statements, the Company is not undertaking, and specifically declines to undertake, any obligation to address or update each or any factor in future filings or communications regarding the Company s business or results, and is not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused changes to discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. Though the Company has attempted to list comprehensively these important cautionary risk factors, the Company wishes to caution investors and others that other factors may in the future prove to be important in affecting the Company s business or results of operations. The Company cautions readers not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which represent current views as of the date made. Forward-looking statements are inherently at risk to changes in the national and worldwide economic environment, which could include, among other things, risks related to the deterioration of economic conditions; the COVID-19 pandemic; risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures; potential disruption of operations including at co-manufacturers, suppliers, logistics providers, customers, or other third-party service providers; risk of loss of a material contract; the Company s inability to protect information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber attacks or security breaches; deterioration of labor relations, labor availability or increases to labor costs; general risks of the food industry, including food contamination; outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks; fluctuations in commodity prices and availability of raw materials and other inputs; fluctuations in market demand for the Company s products; damage to the Company's reputation or brand image; climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change; risks of litigation; potential sanctions and compliance costs arising from government regulation; compliance with stringent environmental regulations and potential environmental litigation; and risks arising from the Company s foreign operations.