ITEM 1. Business 3 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 21 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 ITEM 2. Properties 39 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 40 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 44 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 45 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 48 ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 82 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 84 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 146 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 146 ITEM 9B. Other Information 150 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 150 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 150 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 151 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 151 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 151 PART IV. ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 151 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 159 Signatures 160 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General We believe we are the world s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-based dental and medical practitioners. We serve more than 1 million customers worldwide including dental practitioners and laboratories and physician practices, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 87 years of experience distributing health care products. We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 19,000 people (of which approximately 9,400 are based outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 31 countries, including the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. We offer a comprehensive selection of products and services and value-added solutions for operating efficient practices and delivering high quality care. We operate through a centralized and automated distribution network with a selection of more than 120,000 branded products and Henry Schein private brand products in stock, as well as more than 180,000 additional products available as special order items. We also offer our customers exclusive, innovative technology solutions, including practice management software and e-commerce solutions, as well as a broad range of financial services. We have established over 3.5 million square feet of space in 29 strategically located distribution centers around the world to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers needs. Our infrastructure also allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment. We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base. The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global dental and medical operating segments. This segment distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools and other institutions. Our global medical group serves office-based medical practitioners, ambulatory surgery centers, other alternate-care settings and other institutions. Our global technology and value-added services group provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology group offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as continuing education services for practitioners. Spin-Off of Henry Schein Animal Health Business On February 7, 2019 (the Distribution Date ), we completed the separation (the Separation ) and subsequent merger ( Merger ) of our animal health business (the Henry Schein Animal Health Business ) with Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. (d/b/a Vets First Choice, Vets First Choice ). This was accomplished by a series of transactions among us, Vets First Choice, Covetrus, Inc. (f/k/a HS Spinco, Inc. Covetrus ), a wholly owned subsidiary of ours prior to the Distribution Date, and HS Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus ( Merger 3 Table of Contents Sub ). In connection with the Separation, we contributed, assigned and transferred to Covetrus certain applicable assets, liabilities and capital stock or other ownership interests relating to the Henry Schein Animal Health Business. On the Distribution Date, we received a tax-free distribution of $1,120 million from Covetrus pursuant to certain debt financing incurred by Covetrus. On the Distribution Date and prior to the Animal Health Spin-off, Covetrus issued shares of Covetrus common stock to certain institutional accredited investors (the Share Sale Investors ) for $361.1 million (the Share Sale ). The proceeds of the Share Sale were paid to Covetrus and distributed to us. Subsequent to the Share Sale, we distributed, on a pro rata basis, all of the shares of the common stock of Covetrus held by us to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 17, 2019 (the Animal Health Spin-off ). After the Share Sale and Animal Health Spin-off, Merger Sub consummated the Merger whereby it merged with and into Vets First Choice, with Vets First Choice surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus. Immediately following the consummation of the Merger, on a fully diluted basis, (i) approximately 63% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by our stockholders and the Share Sale Investors, and (b) held by certain employees of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business (in the form of certain equity awards), and (ii) approximately 37% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by stockholders of Vets First Choice immediately prior to the Merger, and (b) held by certain employees of Vets First Choice (in the form of certain equity awards). After the Separation and the Merger, we no longer beneficially owned any shares of Covetrus common stock and, following the Distribution Date, will not consolidate the financial results of Covetrus for the purpose of our financial reporting. Following the Separation and the Merger, Covetrus was an independent, publicly traded company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off, we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus under which we have agreed to provide certain transition services for up to twenty-four months in areas such as information technology, finance and accounting, human resources, supply chain, and real estate and facility services. As a result of the Separation, the financial position and results of operations of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business are presented as discontinued operations and have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Industry The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices. Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage. In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians offices. We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base. 4 Table of Contents In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management. Competition The distribution and manufacture of health care supplies and equipment is highly competitive. Many of the health care distribution products we sell are available to our customers from a number of suppliers. In addition, our competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products. Manufacturers also could seek to sell directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. In North America, we compete with other distributors, as well as several manufacturers, of dental and medical products, primarily on the basis of price, breadth of product line, customer service and value-added products and services. In the dental market, our primary competitors are the Patterson Dental division of Patterson Companies, Inc. and Benco Dental Supply Company. In addition, we compete against a number of other distributors that operate on a national, regional and local level. Our primary competitors in the medical market are McKesson Corporation and Medline Industries, Inc., which are national distributors. We also compete against a number of regional and local medical distributors, as well as a number of manufacturers that sell directly to physicians. With regard to our dental practice management software, we compete against numerous companies, including Carestream Health, Inc. and the Patterson Dental division of Patterson Companies, Inc. The medical practice management and electronic medical records market is very fragmented and we compete with numerous companies such as the NextGen division of Quality Systems, Inc., eClinicalWorks and Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. We also face significant competition internationally, where we compete on the basis of price and customer service against several large competitors, including the GACD Group, Pluradent AG Co., Lifco AB, Planmeca Oy, Billericay Dental Supply Co. Ltd., as well as a large number of dental and medical product distributors and manufacturers in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Significant price reductions by our competitors could result in a similar reduction in our prices. Any of these competitive pressures may materially adversely affect our operating results. Competitive Strengths We have more than 87 years of experience in distributing products to health care practitioners resulting in strong awareness of the Henry Schein brand. Our competitive strengths include: A focus on meeting our customers unique needs . We are committed to providing customized solutions to our customers that are driven by our understanding of the market and reflect the technology-driven products and services best suited for their practice needs. Direct sales and marketing expertise. Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal visits by field sales representatives, frequent direct marketing and telesales contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive distribution agreements, competitive prices and ease of order placement. The key elements of our direct sales and marketing efforts are: 5 Table of Contents Field sales consultants. We have over 3,650 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, covering major North American, European and other international markets. These consultants complement our direct marketing and telesales efforts and enable us to better market, service and support the sale of more sophisticated products and equipment. Direct marketing. During 2019, we distributed approximately 30 million pieces of direct marketing material, including catalogs, flyers, order stuffers and other promotional materials to existing and potential office-based health care customers. Telesales. We support our direct marketing effort with approximately 2,000 inbound and outbound telesales representatives, who facilitate order processing, generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with customers and stay abreast of market developments and the hundreds of new products, services and technologies introduced each year to educate practice personnel. Electronic commerce solutions. We provide our customers and sales teams with innovative and competitive Internet, PC and mobile e-commerce solutions. Social media. Our operating entities and employees engage our customers and supplier partners through various social media platforms. Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices. We offer a broad range of products and services to our customers, at competitive prices, in the following categories: Consumable supplies and equipment. We offer over 120,000 Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, to our customers. We offer over 180,000 additional SKUs to our customers in the form of special order items. Technology and other value-added products and services. We sell practice management software systems to our dental and medical customers. Our practice management solutions provide practitioners with electronic medical records, patient treatment history, billing, accounts receivable analyses and management, appointment calendars, electronic claims processing and word processing programs, network and hardware services, transition services and training and education programs for practitioners. We have approximately 800 technical representatives supporting customers using our practice management solutions. As of December 28, 2019, we had an active user base of approximately 83,600 practices, including users of Dentrix Dental Systems, Dentrix Enterprise, Dentrix Dental Vision TM , Dentrix Ascend , Easy Dental , Oasis TM , Evolution and EXACT , Gesden , Julie Software, Power Practice Px, AxiUm TM , EndoVision , PerioVision , OMSVision and Viive for dental practices; and MicroMD for physician practices. Repair services. We have over 170 equipment sales and service centers worldwide that provide a variety of repair, installation and technical services for our health care customers. Our over 2,000 technicians provide installation and repair services for: dental handpieces; dental and medical small equipment; table top sterilizers; and large dental equipment. Financial services. We offer our customers solutions in operating their practices more efficiently by providing access to a number of financial services and products provided by third party vendors (including non-recourse financing for equipment, technology and software products; non-recourse patient financing; collection services and credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally lower than what our customers would be able to secure independently. We also provide consulting services, dental practice valuation and brokerage services. Commitment to superior customer service . We maintain a strong commitment to providing superior customer service. We frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statistical reports. Our customer service policy primarily focuses on: 6 Table of Contents Exceptional order fulfillment . We ship an average of approximately 124,000 cartons daily. Approximately 99% of items ordered are shipped without back ordering and are shipped on the same business day the order is received. Streamlined ordering process . Customers may place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by mail, fax, telephone, e-mail, Internet and by using our computerized order entry systems. Integrated management information systems . Our information systems generally allow for centralized management of key functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales and order fulfillment. These systems allow us to manage our growth, deliver superior customer service, properly target customers, manage financial performance and monitor daily operational statistics. Cost-effective purchasing . We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a competitive-pricing provider of health care products. We continuously evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the lowest possible cost. In 2019, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 31% and 6%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases. Efficient distribution . We distribute our products from our strategically located distribution centers. We strive to maintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment. These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our management information systems. Once an order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the distribution center nearest the customer s location and a packing slip for the entire order is printed for order fulfillment. Products The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales by principal categories of products offered through our health care distribution and technology reportable segments: December 28, December 29, December 30, 2019 2018 2017 Health care distribution: Dental products (1) 64.2 % 67.4 % 68.1 % Medical products (2) 29.8 28.3 28.1 Total health care distribution 94.0 95.7 96.2 Technology and value-added services: Software and related products and other value-added products (3) 5.2 4.3 3.8 Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues 99.2 100.0 100.0 Corporate TSA revenues (4) 0.8 - - Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 (1) Includes infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives, impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants, gypsum, acrylics, articulators, abrasives, dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray supplies and equipment, equipment repair and high-tech and digital restoration equipment. (2) Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products, equipment and vitamins. (3) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. (4) Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in connection with the Animal Health spin-off, which we expect to continue through August 2020. 7 Table of Contents Business Strategy Our objective is to continue to expand as a global value-added provider of health care products and services to office-based dental and medical practitioners. To accomplish this, we will apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies: Increase penetration of our existing customer base. We have over 1 million customers worldwide and we intend to increase sales to our existing customer base and enhance our position as their primary supplier. Increase the number of customers we serve. This strategy includes increasing the number and productivity of field sales consultants, as well as using our customer database to focus our marketing efforts in all of our operating segments. In the dental business, we provide products and services to traditional dental practices as well as new emerging segments, such as dental service organizations and community health centers. Leveraging our broad array of assets and capabilities, we offer solutions to address these new markets. In the medical business, we have expanded to serve customers located in settings outside of the traditional office, such as urgent care clinics, retail and occupational health settings. As settings of health care shift, we remain committed to serving these practitioners and providing them with the products and services they need. Leverage our value-added products and services. We continue to increase cross-selling efforts for key product lines utilizing a consultative selling process. In the dental business, we have significant cross-selling opportunities between our dental practice management software users and our dental distribution customers. In the medical business, we have opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables and other pharmaceuticals sales to health care practitioners, as well as cross-selling core products and electronic health record and practice management software. Our strategy extends to providing health systems, integrated delivery networks and other large group and multi-site health care organizations, that include physician clinics, these same value added products and services. As physicians and health systems closely align, we have increased access to opportunities for cross-marketing and selling our product and service portfolios. Pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. Our acquisition strategy includes acquiring businesses and entering into joint ventures complementary to ours that will provide, among other things, additional sales to be channeled through our existing distribution infrastructure, access to additional product lines and field sales consultants and an opportunity to further expand into new geographic markets. Markets Served Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S. population is increasingly using health care services. Between 2019 and 2029, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 11%. Between 2019 and 2039, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 22%. This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 7% between 2019 and 2029 and approximately 13% between 2019 and 2039. In the dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral health care expenditures as the 45 and older segment of the population increases. There is increasing demand for new technologies that allow dentists to increase productivity, and this is being driven in the U.S. by lower insurance reimbursement rates. At the same time, there is an expected increase in dental insurance coverage. We support our dental professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as through important value-added services, including practice management software, electronic claims processing, financial services and continuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner s efficiency. In the medical market, there continues to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to physicians offices, a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities for us. There also is the continuing use of 8 Table of Contents vaccines, injectables and other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care settings. We believe we have established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based physician practitioner. Additionally, we are expanding our dental full-service model and our medical offerings in countries where opportunities exist. Through our Schein Direct program, we also have the capability to provide door-to-door air package delivery to practitioners in over 190 countries around the world. For information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. Revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. Revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. We expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. Quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs; supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems; unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally; exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; 9 Table of Contents general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; restructuring costs; the adoption or repeal of legislation; changes in accounting principles; and litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements. Any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. If our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. Governmental Regulations Operating, Security and Licensure Standards Certain of our businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Among the United States federal laws applicable to us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended ( FDC Act ), and Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act. We are also subject to comparable foreign regulations. The