ITEM 1. Business 3 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 24 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 38 ITEM 2. Properties 39 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 39 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 39 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 41 ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 57 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 114 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 114 ITEM 9B. Other Information 117 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 117 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 117 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 117 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 118 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 118 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 118 PART IV. ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 118 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 125 Signatures 126 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business General Henry Schein, Inc. is a solutions company for health care professionals powered by a network of people and technology. We believe we are the world s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-based dental and medical practitioners, as well as alternate sites of care. Our philosophy is grounded in our commitment to help customers operate a more efficient and successful business so the practitioner can provide better clinical care. With more than 89 years of experience distributing health care products, we have built a vast set of small, mid-sized and large customers in the dental and medical markets, serving more than one million customers worldwide across dental practices, laboratories, physician practices, and ambulatory surgery centers, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 21,600 people (of which approximately 10,700 are based outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 32 countries and territories. Our broad global footprint has evolved over time through our organic success as well as through contribution from strategic acquisitions. We offer a comprehensive selection of more than 120,000 branded products and Henry Schein private brand products in stock, as well as more than 180,000 additional products available as special-order items. Our infrastructure, including over 3.8 million square feet of space in 27 strategically located distribution centers around the world, enables us to historically provide rapid and accurate order fulfillment, better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers needs. We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base. Our dental businesses serve office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools, government and other institutions. Our medical businesses serve physician offices, urgent care centers, ambulatory care sites, emergency medical technicians, dialysis centers, home health, federal and state governments and large enterprises, such as group practices and integrated delivery networks, among other providers across a wide range of specialties. The health care distribution reportable segment, combining our global dental and medical businesses, distributes consumable products, dental specialty products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. While our primary go-to-market strategy is in our capacity as a distributor, we also market and sell under our own private label portfolio of cost-effective, high-quality consumable merchandise products, and manufacture certain dental specialty products in the areas of implants, orthodontics and endodontics. The technology and value-added services reportable segment provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Henry Schein One, the largest contributor of sales to this category, offers dental practice management solutions for dental and medical practitioners. In addition, we offer dentists and physicians a broad suite of electronic health records, integrated revenue cycle management, patient communication services including electronic marketing and web-site design, analytics and patient demand generation. Finally, our value-added practice solutions include practice consultancy, education, and the facilitation of financial service offerings (on a non-recourse basis) to help dentists and physicians operate and expand their business operations. We believe our hands-on consultative approach to provide solutions to support practice decision-making is a key differentiator for our business. 3 Table of Contents Recent Developments See Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Recent Developments herein for a discussion related to the COVID-19 pandemic and recent corporate transactions. Industry The global health care distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to mid-sized and large group practices ranging in size from a few practitioners to several hundred practices owned or operated by dental support organizations (DSOs), medical group purchasing organizations (GPOs), hospital systems or integrated delivery networks (IDNs). Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner, hygienist or office manager. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. The health care distribution industry continues to experience growth due to demand driven by the aging population, increased health care awareness and the importance of preventative care, an increasing understanding of the connection between good oral health and overall health, improved access to care globally, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage and technological improvements, including the advancement of software and services, prosthetic solutions and telemedicine. In addition, the non-acute market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians offices and ambulatory surgery centers. We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base. In addition, customer consolidation will likely lead to multiple locations under common management and the movement of more procedures from the hospital setting to the physician or alternate care setting as the health care industry is increasingly focused on efficiency and cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of health maintenance organizations ( HMOs ), group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management. Competition The distribution and manufacture of health care supplies and equipment is highly competitive. Many of the health care products we sell are available to our customers from a number of suppliers. In addition, our competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products. Manufacturers also could seek to sell directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. In certain parts of the dental end market, such as those related to dental specialty products, and medical end market manufacturers already sell directly to end customers. In North America, we compete with other distributors, as well as several manufacturers, of dental and medical products, primarily on the basis of price, breadth of product line, e-commerce capabilities, customer service and 4 Table of Contents value-added products and services. In the dental market, our primary competitors in the U.S. are the Patterson Dental division of Patterson Companies, Inc. and Benco Dental Supply Company. In addition, we compete against a number of other distributors that operate on a national, regional and local level. Our primary competitors in the U.S. medical market, which accounts for the large majority of our global medical sales, are McKesson Corporation and Medline Industries, Inc., which are national distributors. We also compete with a number of regional and local medical distributors, as well as a number of manufacturers that sell directly to physicians. With regard to our dental software, we compete against numerous companies, including the Patterson Dental division of Patterson Companies, Inc., Carestream Health, Inc., Open Dental Software, Inc., PlanetDDS LLC, Good Methods Global Inc. (d.b.a. CareStack) and Curve Dental, LLC. In other software end markets, including revenue cycle management, patient relationship management and patient demand generation, we compete with companies such as Vyne Therapeutics Inc., EDI-Health Group, Inc. (d.b.a. Dental X Change, Inc.), Weave Communications, Inc., Solutionreach, Inc., ZocDoc, Inc., LocalMed Inc. and Prosites Inc. The medical practice management and electronic medical records market is fragmented and we compete with numerous companies such as the NextGen division of Quality Systems , Inc., eClinicalWorks, Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. and Epic Systems Corporation. Outside of the U.S., we believe we are the only global distributor of supplies and equipment to dental practices and our competitors are primarily local and regional companies. We also face significant competition internationally, where we compete on the basis of price and customer service against several large competitors, including the GACD Group, Proclinic SA, Lifco AB, Planmeca Oy and Billericay Dental Supply Co. Ltd., as well as a large number of other dental and medical product distributors and manufacturers in international countries and territories we serve. Competitive Strengths We have more than 89 years of experience in distributing products to health care practitioners resulting in strong awareness of the Henry Schein brand. Our competitive strengths include: A focus on meeting our customers unique needs . We are committed to providing customized solutions to our customers that are driven by our understanding of the end markets we serve and reflect the technology-driven products and services best suited for their practice needs. We are committed to continuing to enhance these offerings through organic investment in our products and our teams, as well as through the acquisition of new products and services that may help us better serve our customers. Direct sales and marketing expertise. Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal or virtual visits by field sales representatives, frequent direct marketing and telesales contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive distribution agreements, competitive prices and ease of order placement, particularly through our e-commerce platforms. The key elements of our direct sales and marketing efforts are: Field sales consultants. We have over 3,450 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, covering major North American, European and other international markets. These consultants complement our direct marketing and telesales efforts and enable us to better market, service and support the sale of more sophisticated products and equipment. Marketing. During 2021, we marketed to existing and prospective office-based health care providers through a combination of owned, earned and paid digital channels, as well as through catalogs, flyers, direct mail and other promotional materials. Our strategies included an emphasis on educational content through webinars and content marketing initiatives. We continue to enhance our marketing technology to improve our targeting capability and the relevance of messaging and offers. Telesales. We support our direct marketing effort with approximately 2,100 inbound and outbound telesales representatives, who facilitate order processing, generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with customers and stay abreast of market developments and the hundreds of new products, services and technologies introduced each year to educate practice personnel. 5 Table of Contents Electronic commerce solutions. We provide our customers and sales teams with innovative and competitive e-commerce solutions. We continue to invest in our e-commerce platform to offer enhanced content management so customers can more easily find the products they need and to enable an engaging purchase experience, supported by excellent customer service. Social media. Our operating entities and employees engage our customers and supplier partners through various social media platforms, which are an important element of our communications and marketing efforts. We continue to expand our social media presence to raise awareness about issues, engage customers beyond a sale and deliver services and solutions to specialized audiences. Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices. We offer a broad range of products and services to our customers, at competitive prices, in the following categories: Consumable supplies and equipment. We distribute consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, dental specialty products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. We offer over 120,000 Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, to our customers. We offer over 180,000 additional SKUs to our customers in the form of special order items. We also market and sell our own private label portfolio of cost-effective, high-quality consumable merchandise products and manufacture certain dental specialty products in the areas of implants, orthodontics and endodontics. Technology and other value-added products and services. We sell practice management, business analytics, patient engagement and patient demand creation software solutions to our dental customers. Our practice management solutions provide practitioners with electronic medical records, patient treatment history, analytics, billing, accounts receivable analyses and management, appointment calendars, electronic claims processing and word processing programs, network and hardware services, e-commerce and electronic marketing services, sourcing third party patient payment plans, transition services and training and education programs for practitioners. We also sell medical software for practice management, certified electronic health records ( EHR ) and e-Prescribe medications and prescription solutions through MicroMD . We have approximately 950 technical representatives supporting customers using our practice management solutions and services. As of December 25, 2021, we had an active user base of approximately 95,700 practices and 400,000 consumers, including users of AxiUm, Dentally , Dentrix Ascend , Dental Vision , Dentrix Dental Systems, Dentrix Enterprise, Easy Dental , EndoVision , Evolution and EXACT , Gesden , Jarvis Analytics , Julie Software, Oasis, OMSVision , Orisline , PBS Endo , PerioVision , Power Practice Px, PowerDent , and Viive and subscriptions for Demandforce , Sesame, and Lighthouse360 for dental practices and DentalPlans.com for dental patients; and MicroMD for physician practices. Repair services. We have over 140 equipment sales and service centers worldwide that provide a variety of repair, installation and technical services for our health care customers. Our over 2,175 technicians provide installation and repair services for: dental handpieces; dental and medical small equipment; table-top sterilizers and large dental equipment. Financial services. We offer our customers solutions in operating their practices more efficiently by providing access to a number of financial services and products provided by third party suppliers (including non-recourse financing for equipment, technology and software products, non-recourse practice financing for leasehold improvements, business debt consolidation and commercial real estate, non-recourse patient financing and credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally lower than what our customers would be able to secure independently. We also provide staffing services, dental practice valuation and brokerage services. Commitment to superior customer service . We maintain a strong commitment to providing superior customer service. We frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statistical reports. Our customer service policy primarily focuses on: 6 Table of Contents Exceptional order fulfillment . We ship an average of approximately 156,000 cartons daily. Historically, approximately 99% of items have been shipped without back ordering and were shipped on the same business day the order is received. Due to the significant increase in demand for personal protective equipment ( PPE ), as a result of COVID-19, during the year ended December 25, 2021, approximately 96% of items ordered were shipped without back ordering. As the demand for PPE stabilizes, we expect our percentage of items shipped without back-ordering and shipped on the same day to return to historical levels. Comprehensive ordering process . Customers may place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week via e-commerce solutions, telephone, fax, e-mail and mail. Integrated management information systems . Our information systems generally allow for centralized management of key functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales, order fulfillment and financial and operational reporting. These systems allow us to manage our growth, deliver superior customer service, properly target customers, manage financial performance and monitor daily operational statistics. Cost-effective purchasing . We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a competitively priced provider of health care products. We continuously evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the lowest possible cost. In 2021, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 30% and 4%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases. Efficient distribution . We distribute our products from our strategically located distribution centers. We strive to maintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment. These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our management information systems. Once an order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the distribution center nearest the customer s location for order fulfillment. Products and Services The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales by principal categories of products and services offered through our health care distribution and technology and value-added services reportable segments: December 25, December 26, December 28, 2021 2020 2019 Health care distribution: Dental products (1) 60.8 % 58.4 % 64.2 % Medical products (2) 34.0 35.8 29.8 Total health care distribution 94.8 94.2 94.0 Technology and value-added services: Software and related products and other value-added products (3) 5.2 5.1 5.2 Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues 100.0 99.3 99.2 Corporate TSA revenues (4) - 0.7 0.8 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 (1) Includes infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives, impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants, gypsum, acrylics, articulators, abrasives, dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray supplies and equipment, PPE, equipment repair and high-tech and digital restoration equipment. (2) Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products, equipment, PPE and vitamins. (3) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. (4) Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in connection with the Animal Health Spin-off, which ended in December 2020. See Note-23 Related Party Transactions for further information. 7 Table of Contents Business Strategy Our objective is to continue to expand as a global value-added provider of health care products and services to office-based dental and medical practitioners by increasing their efficiency and success. To accomplish this, we apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies: Increase penetration of our existing customer base. We have over 1 million customers worldwide and we intend to increase sales to our existing customer base and enhance our position as their primary supplier. We believe our offering of a broad range of products, services and support, including software solutions that can help drive improved workflow efficiency and patient communications for practices, coupled with our full-service value proposition, helps us to retain and grow our customer base. Increase the number of customers we serve. This strategy includes increasing the productivity of our field sales consultants and telesales team, as well as using our customer database to focus our marketing efforts in all of our operating segments. In the dental business, we provide products and services to independent practices, mid-market groups, and large DSOs as well as community health centers and government sites of care. Leveraging our broad array of assets and capabilities, we offer solutions to address these new markets. In the medical business, we have expanded to serve customers located in settings outside of the traditional office, such as urgent care clinics, retail, occupational health and home health settings. As settings of health care shift, we remain committed to serving these practitioners and providing them with the products and services they need. Leverage our value-added products and services. We continue to increase cross-selling efforts for key product lines utilizing a consultative selling process. In the dental business, we have significant cross-selling opportunities between our dental software users and our dental distribution customers. In the medical business, we have opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables and other pharmaceuticals sales to health care practitioners, as well as cross-selling EHR systems and software when we sell our core products. Our strategy extends to providing health systems, integrated delivery networks and other large group and multi-site health care organizations, including physician clinics, these same value added products and services. As physicians and health systems closely align, we have increased access to opportunities for cross-marketing and selling our product and service portfolios. Pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. Our acquisition strategy is focused on investments in companies that add new customers and sales teams, increase our geographic footprint (whether entering a new country, such as emerging markets, or building scale where we have already invested in businesses), and finally, those that enable us to access new products and technologies. Markets Served Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S. population is increasingly using health care services. According to the U.S. Census Bureau s International Database, between 2021 and 2031, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 11%. Between 2021 and 2041, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 22%. This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 7% between 2021 and 2031 and approximately 12% between 2021 and 2041. In the dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral health care expenditures as the 45-and-older segment of the population increases. There is increasing demand for new technologies that allow dentists to increase productivity, and this is being driven in the U.S. by lower insurance reimbursement rates. At the same time, there is an expected increase in dental insurance coverage. In the medical market, there continues to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to physicians offices and home health settings, a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities for us. There also is the continuing use of vaccines, injectables and other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care settings. We believe we have established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based physician practitioner. 8 Table of Contents We support our dental and medical professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as through important value-added services, including practice management software, electronic claims processing, financial services and continuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner s efficiency. Additionally, we seek to expand our dental full-service model and medical offerings in countries where opportunities exist. We do this through both direct sales and by partnering with local distribution companies. For information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 3 Segment and Geographic Data of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. Sales and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine) purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners for certain products (including equipment and software) and year-end promotions. Sales and profitability may also be impacted by the timing of certain annual and biennial dental tradeshows where equipment promotions are offered. In addition, some dental practices delay equipment purchases in the U.S. until year-end due to tax incentives. We expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. Governmental Regulations We strive to be compliant with the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below, and believe we have effective compliance programs and other controls in place to ensure substantial compliance. However, compliance is not guaranteed either now or in the future, as certain laws, regulations and guidance may be subject to varying and evolving interpretations that could affect our ability to comply, as well as future changes, additions and enforcement approaches, including political changes. President Biden s administration (the Biden Administration ) has indicated that it will be more aggressive in its pursuit of alleged violations of law, and it has revoked certain guidance that would have limited governmental use of informal agency guidance to pursue potential violations, as well as that it was more prepared to pursue individuals for corporate law violations, including an aggressive approach to anti-corruption activities. Changes to applicable laws, regulations and gui