Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2. Properties 30 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 30 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant&#x2019;s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for Host Inc. 32 Market for Registrant&#x2019;s Common Units, Related Unitholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for Host L.P. 33 Item 6. Reserved 33 Item 7. Management&#x2019;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 62 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 63 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 104 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 104 Item 9B. Other Information 104 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 104 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 105 Item 11. Executive Compensation 105 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder and Unitholder Matters 105 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 105 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 105 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 106 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 109 iii PART I Forward Looking Statements Our disclosure and analysis in this 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Host Inc.&#x2019;s 2021 Annual Report to Stockholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management&#x2019;s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify each such statement by using words such as &#x201c;anticipate,&#x201d; &#x201c;estimate,&#x201d; &#x201c;expect,&#x201d; &#x201c;project,&#x201d; &#x201c;intend,&#x201d; &#x201c;plan,&#x201d; &#x201c;believe,&#x201d; &#x201c;will,&#x201d; &#x201c;target,&#x201d; &#x201c;forecast&#x201d; and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these forward-looking statements include those relating to future actions, future acquisitions or dispositions, future capital expenditures plans, future performance or results of current and anticipated expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates or the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. We cannot guarantee that any future results discussed in any forward-looking statements will be realized, although we believe that we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions, including those discussed in Item 1A &#x201c;Risk Factors.&#x201d; Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those results anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any additional disclosures we make or related subjects in our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#x201c;SEC&#x201d;). Also note that, in our risk factors, we provide a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from past results and those results anticipated, estimated or projected. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the discussion of risk factors to be a complete discussion of all the potential risks or uncertainties that could affect our business. Item 1. B usiness We are the largest publicly traded lodging REIT, with a geographically diverse portfolio of luxury and upper upscale hotels. As of February 17, 2022, our consolidated lodging portfolio consists of 80 primarily luxury and upper-upscale hotels containing approximately 44,400 rooms, with substantially all located in the United States (five of the hotels are located outside of the U.S. in Brazil and Canada). In addition, we own non-controlling interests in five domestic and one international joint ventures that primarily own hotels. We also own non-controlling interests in a timeshare joint venture in Hawaii and in a joint venture that owns an asset management business. Host Inc. was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1998 and operates as a self-managed and self-administered REIT. Host Inc. owns hotels and conducts operations through Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and of which it holds approximately 99% of the partnership interests (&#x201c;OP units&#x201d;) as of December 31, 2021. The remaining partnership interests are owned by various unaffiliated limited partners. Host Inc. has the exclusive and complete responsibility for Host L.P.&#x2019;s day-to-day management and control. Business Strategy Our goal is to be the preeminent owner of high-quality lodging real estate in growing markets in the U.S. and to generate superior long-term risk adjusted returns for our stockholders throughout all phases of the lodging cycle through a combination of appreciation in asset values, growth in earnings and the payment of dividends. The pillars of our strategy to achieve this objective and elevate our growth profile include: &#x2022; Geographically diverse portfolio of hotels in the U.S. - Own a diversified portfolio of hotels in the U.S. in major urban and resort destinations. Target markets with diverse demand generators, high barriers to entry, favorable supply and demand dynamics and attractive long-term projected RevPAR growth; &#x2022; Strong scale and integrated platform - Utilize our scale to create value through enterprise analytics, asset management and capital investment initiatives, while aiding external growth by leveraging scale as a competitive advantage to acquire assets befitting our strategy. Allocate and recycle capital to seek returns that exceed our cost of capital and actively return capital to stockholders; 1 &#x2022; Investment grade balance sheet - Maintain a strong and flexible capital structure that allows us to execute our strategy throughout all phases of the lodging cycle; and &#x2022; Employer of choice and responsible corporate citizen - Align our organizational structure with our business objectives to be an employer of choice and a responsible corporate citizen. Geographically Diverse Portfolio. We seek to have a geographically diversified portfolio in major markets and premier resort destinations in the U.S. We primarily focus on acquisitions and, occasionally, new development opportunities to enhance our portfolio. We have historically targeted acquisitions in the top 25 U.S. markets but also consider hotels in other markets which we believe have high growth potential and diverse demand generators. We focus generally on the following types of assets: &#x2022; Resorts in locations with strong airlift and limited supply growth. These assets feature superior amenities and are operated by premier operators; &#x2022; Convention destination hotels that are group oriented in urban and resort markets. These assets feature extensive and high-quality meeting facilities and often are connected to prominent convention centers; and &#x2022; High-end urban hotels that are positioned in prime locations and possess multiple demand drivers for both business and leisure travelers. As one of the largest owners of Marriott and Hyatt hotels, our hotels primarily are operated under brand names that are among the most respected and widely recognized in the lodging industry. Within these brands, we have focused predominantly on the upper-upscale and luxury chain scales, as we believe these have a broad appeal for both individual and group leisure and business customers. In addition, we own several unbranded or soft-branded hotels that appeal to distinctive customer profiles in certain submarkets. Strong Scale and Integrated Platform Enterprise Analytics Platform. Due to the scale of our asset management and business intelligence platform, we believe we are in a unique position to implement value-added real estate decisions and to assist our managers in improving operating performance and profitability. The size and composition of our portfolio and our affiliation with most of the leading brands and operators in the industry allow our enterprise analytics team to benchmark similar hotels and identify revenue-enhancement opportunities and cost efficiencies that can maximize the operating performance, long-term profitability and value of our real estate. We perform independent underwriting of return on investment (&#x201c;ROI&#x201d;) projects and potential acquisitions, as well as revenue management analysis of ancillary revenue opportunities. Our goal is to continue to differentiate our hotels within their competitive markets, drive operating performance and enhance the overall value of our real estate through the following: &#x2022; Enhance operating performance and profitability by using our business intelligence system to benchmark and monitor hotel performance and cost controls. &#x2022; Drive revenue growth by conducting detailed strategic reviews with our managers on markets and business mix to assist them in developing the appropriate group/transient mix, online presence to address a broad customer base, and market share targets for each hotel. &#x2022; Work with leading brands , such as Marriott and Hyatt, to take advantage of their worldwide presence and lodging infrastructure. We also have a selection of hotels managed by independent operators where we believe these operators have more flexibility to drive revenues and control costs to maximize profits. &#x2022; Improve asset value through the extension or purchase of ground leases or the restructuring of management agreements to increase contract flexibility. Disciplined Capital Allocation. Guided by a disciplined approach to capital allocation, we are equipped to make investment decisions that seek to deliver the greatest value and returns to stockholders. Our goal is to allocate capital to enhance and improve our portfolio, while balancing the importance of prudently returning capital to stockholders. For 2022, we will continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation and intend to take advantage of our strong balance sheet and overall scale. We are constantly evaluating potential acquisitions of iconic upper-upscale and luxury properties that we believe have sustainable competitive advantages. Similarly, we intend to continue our capital recycling program with strategic and 2 opportunistic dispositions. This may include the sale of assets where we believe the potential for growth is constrained or hotels with significant capital expenditure requirements that we do not believe would generate an adequate return. We may acquire additional properties or dispose of properties through various structures, including transactions involving single assets, portfolios, joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions of the securities or assets of other REITs or distributions of hotels to our stockholders. We anticipate that any acquisitions may be funded by, or through a combination of, proceeds from the sales of hotels, equity offerings of Host Inc., issuances of OP units by Host L.P., incurrence of debt, available cash or advances under our credit facility. We note, however, that the nature and supply of these assets make acquisitions inherently difficult to predict. For these reasons, we can make no assurances that we will be successful in purchasing any one or more hotels that we are reviewing currently, or may in the future review, bid on or negotiate to buy. We also seek to create and mine value from our existing portfolio through value enhancement initiatives and ROI projects. We believe these investments provide a significant opportunity to achieve returns well in excess of our cost of capital. We work closely with our managers to attempt to schedule these projects to minimize operational disruption and environmental impact. Value enhancement initiatives seek to maximize the value of real estate within our existing portfolio through its highest and best use. These projects may include hotel expansion, timeshare, office space or condominium units on excess land, redevelopment or expansion of existing retail space, and the acquisition of development entitlements. ROI projects are designed to improve the positioning of our hotels within their markets and competitive set. These projects include extensive renovations, including guest rooms, lobbies, food and beverage outlets; expansions and/or extensive renovation of ballroom and meeting rooms; major mechanical system upgrades; and green building initiatives and certifications. Also included are projects focused on increasing space profitability or lowering net operating costs, such as converting unprofitable or underutilized space into meeting space, adding guestrooms, and implementing energy and water conservation measures such as LED lighting, high-efficiency mechanical, electrical and plumbing equipment and fixtures, solar power, energy management systems, guestroom water efficient fixtures, and building automation systems. Renewal and replacement capital expenditures are designed to maintain the quality and competitiveness of our hotels. Typically, renovations occur at intervals of approximately seven to ten years, but the timing may vary based on the type of property, function of area being renovated, hotel occupancy and other factors. These renovations generally are divided into the following types: soft goods, case goods, bathroom and architectural and engineering systems. Soft goods include items such as carpeting, textiles and wall finishes, which may require more frequent updates in order to maintain brand quality standards. Case goods include dressers, desks, couches, restaurant and meeting room tables and chairs, which generally are not replaced as frequently. Bathroom renovations include the refurbishment or replacement of tile, vanity, lighting and plumbing fixtures. Architectural and engineering systems include the physical plant of the hotel, including the roof, elevators/escalators, fa&#xe7;ade, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning and fire systems. Throughout the lodging cycle, to the extent that we are unable to find appropriate investment opportunities that meet our return requirements, we will focus on returning capital to stockholders through dividends or common stock repurchases. Significant factors we review to determine the level and timing of the returns to stockholders include our current stock price compared to our determination of the underlying value of our assets, current and forecast operating results and the completion of hotel sales. Investment Grade Balance Sheet Our goal is to maintain a flexible capital structure that allows us to execute our strategy throughout the lodging cycle. To maintain its qualification as a REIT, Host Inc. is required to distribute 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) to its stockholders each year and, as a result, generally relies on external sources of capital, as well as cash from operations, to finance growth. Management believes that a strong balance sheet is a key competitive advantage that affords us a lower cost of debt and positions us for external growth. While we may issue debt at any time, we will target a net debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (&#x201c;EBITDA&#x201d;) ratio, (or &#x201c;Leverage Ratio,&#x201d; as defined in our credit facility) that allows us to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior unsecured debt. We believe an investment grade rating will give us the most consistent access to capital throughout the business cycle. We seek to structure our debt profile to maintain financial flexibility and a staggered maturity schedule with access to different forms of financing, consisting primarily of senior notes and exchangeable debentures, as well as mortgage debt. Generally, we look to minimize the number of assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt, minimize near-term maturities and maintain a staggered maturity schedule. Depending on market conditions, we also may utilize variable rate debt which can provide greater protection during a decline in the lodging industry. 3 Corporate Responsibility We are committed to creating long-term value through investing responsibly in our business, environment, people and community. Our Corporate Responsibility ( CR ) program is centered around the concept of responsible investment&#x2014;an overarching strategy that guides our focus and actions across our three main themes of Environmental Stewardship, Social Responsibility and Governance: &#x2022; Environmental Stewardship : We are investing in solutions that conserve and restore natural capital to assist us in mitigating climate change and biodiversity impacts with the goal of achieving best-in-class returns. &#x2022; Social Responsibility: We are committed to advancing health, well-being and opportunity for all of our stakeholders, including investors, employees, partners and communities. &#x2022; Governance: Our responsible investment strategies are guided by executive and board-level oversight, our EPIC values and ethical standards, and a disciplined approach to risk management and sustainable value creation. The Real Estate Sustainability Accounting Standard issued by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (&#x201c;SASB&#x201d;) (now the Value Reporting Foundation) outlines the disclosure topics and accounting metrics for the real estate industry. The energy and water management metrics that best correlate with our industry include total energy consumed (&#x201c;Total Energy Consumption&#x201d;) and total water withdrawn (&#x201c;Total Water Consumption&#x201d;). The energy and water data we use is collected and reviewed by third-parties who compile the data from property utility statements. Beginning in 2015, we contracted with a third-party to provide further verification of our energy and water consumption data. The charts below detail our Total Energy Consumption and Total Water Consumption for 2018 through 2020, the last three fiscal years for which data is available (1) . The declines in Total Energy Consumption and Total Water Consumption for 2020 reflect the significant decrease in occupancy at our hotels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic: ___________ (1) Energy and water metrics relate to our consolidated hotels owned for the entire year presented. Our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report, which details our CR program and responsible investment strategy, along with our environmental, social and governance performance and progress, including full SASB disclosure, was issued in September 2021. The contents of our Corporate Responsibility Report are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and do not form a part of this Form 10-K. The Lodging Industry The lodging industry in the United States consists of private and public entities that operate in a diversified market under a variety of brand names. The lodging industry has several key participants: &#x2022; Owners &#x2014;own the hotel and typically enter into an agreement for an independent third-party to manage the hotel. These hotels may be branded and operated under the manager&#x2019;s brand or branded under a franchise agreement and operated by the franchisee or by an independent hotel manager. The hotels also may be operated as an independent hotel by an independent hotel manager. 4 &#x2022; Owner/Managers &#x2014;own the hotel and operate the property with their own management team. These hotels may be branded under a franchise agreement, operated as an independent hotel or operated under the owner&#x2019;s brand. We are prohibited from operating and managing hotels by applicable REIT rules. &#x2022; Franchisors &#x2014;own a brand or brands and strive to grow their revenues by expanding the number of hotels in their franchise system. Franchisors provide their hotels with brand recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems for the franchised hotels. &#x2022; Franchisor/Managers &#x2014;own a brand or brands and operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner or franchisee. &#x2022; Managers &#x2014;operate hotels on behalf of the hotel owner, but do not, themselves, own a brand. The hotels may be operated under a franchise agreement or as an independent hotel. The hotel manager is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the hotel, including the employment of hotel staff, the determination of room rates, the development of sales and marketing plans, the preparation of operating and capital expenditures budgets and the preparation of financial reports for the owner. The hotel manager typically receives fees based on the revenues and profitability of the hotel. Supply and Demand. Our industry is influenced by the cyclical relationship between the supply of and demand for hotel rooms. Lodging demand growth typically is related to the vitality of the overall economy, in addition to local market factors that stimulate travel to specific destinations. Trends in economic indicators such as gross domestic product (&#x201c;GDP&#x201d;) growth, business investment, corporate profits and employment growth are key indicators of the relative strength of lodging demand. Lodging demand also will be affected by changes to international travel patterns. Lodging supply growth generally is driven by overall lodging demand, as extended periods of strong demand growth tend to encourage new development. However, the rate of supply growth also is influenced by several additional factors, including the availability of capital, interest rates, construction costs and unique market considerations. The relatively long lead-time required to complete the development of hotels makes supply growth easier to forecast than demand growth, but increases the volatility of the cyclical behavior of the lodging industry, as new supply may be planned during an upcycle but such supply may open for business in a weaker economy. Therefore, as illustrated in the charts below for the U.S. lodging industry, at different points in the cycle, demand growth may accelerate when supply growth is very low, or supply may accelerate while demand growth is slowing. Online short-term rentals are a source of non-traditional supply for the industry, in both urban and resort destinations, including as a flexible option for apartment buildings and vacation homes. Though not reported through official industry statistics, the impact on the hotel industry and the availability of these outlets is more variable than typical changes in supply from hotel construction and tends to be very market specific. Local legislation has the potential to limit supply growth for these online short-term rentals in many top markets, though the growth of professional management for legal rentals remains a key trend. 5 Our portfolio primarily consists of upper upscale and luxury hotels and, accordingly, its performance is best understood in comparison to the luxury and upper upscale categories rather than the entire industry. The charts below detail the historical supply, demand and revenue per available room (&#x201c;RevPAR&#x201d;) growth for the U.S. lodging industry and for the U.S. luxury and upper upscale categories for 2017 to 2021. U.S. Lodging Industry Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth Source: STR *2020 2021 Supply, Demand and RevPAR estimates reflect economic methodology that assumes no temporary hotel closures U.S. Luxury and Upper Upscale Supply, Demand and RevPAR Growth Source: STR *2020 2021 Supply, Demand and RevPAR estimates reflect economic methodology that assumes no temporary hotel closures 6 Our Customers. Our customers fall into three broad groups: transient business, group business and contract business. Similar to the majority of the lodging industry, we further categorize business within these broad groups based on characteristics they have in common as follows: Transient business broadly represents individual business and/or leisure travelers. Historically, business travelers have made up the majority of transient demand at our hotels, although leisure has driven the majority of our demand during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 and 2021. Therefore, in general we will likely be more affected by trends in business travel than trends in leisure demand. The four key subcategories of rates offered to the transient business group are: &#x2022; Retail : This is the benchmark rate that a hotel publishes and offers to the public. It typically is the rate charged to travelers that do not have access to negotiated or discounted rates. It includes the &#x201c;rack rate,&#x201d; which typically is applied to rooms during high demand periods and is the highest rate category available. Retail room rates will fluctuate more freely depending on anticipated demand levels (e.g., seasonality and weekday vs. weekend stays). &#x2022; Non-Qualified Discount : This category includes special rates offered by the hotels, including packages, advance-purchase discounts and promotional offers. It also includes rooms booked through online travel agencies (OTAs). &#x2022; Special Corporate : This is a negotiated rate offered to companies and organizations that provide significant levels of room night demand to the hotel or to hotel brands generally. These rates typically are negotiated annually at a discount to the anticipated retail rate. In addition, this category includes rates offered at the prevailing per diem for approved government travel. &#x2022; Qualified Discount : This category encompasses all discount programs, such as AAA and AARP discounts, rooms booked through wholesale channels, frequent guest program redemptions, and promotional rates and packages offered by a hotel. Group business represents clusters of guestrooms booked together, usually with a minimum of 10 rooms. The three key sub-categories of the group business category are: &#x2022; Association : group business related to national and regional association meetings and conventions. &#x2022; Corporate : group business related to corporate meetings (e.g., product launches, training programs, contract negotiations, and presentations). &#x2022; Other : group business predominately related to social, military, education, religious, fraternal and youth and amateur sports teams, otherwise known as SMERF business. Contract business refers to blocks of rooms sold to a specific company for an extended period at significantly discounted rates. Airline crews are typical generators of contract demand for our airport hotels. Contract rates may be utilized by hotels that are in markets that are experiencing consistently lower levels of demand. Managers and Operational Agreements All our hotels are managed by third parties pursuant to management or operating agreements, with some of such hotels also subject to separate franchise or license agreements addressing matters pertaining to operations under the designated brand. Under these agreements, the managers have sole responsibility and exclusive authority for all activities necessary for the day-to-day operation of the hotels, including establishing room rates, securing and processing reservations, procuring inventories, supplies and services, providing periodic inspection and consultation visits to the hotels by the managers&#x2019; technical and operational experts and promoting and publicizing the hotels. The managers employ all managerial and other employees for the hotels, review hotel operations with a focus on improving revenues and managing expenses, review the maintenance of the hotels, prepare reports, budgets and projections, and provide other administrative and accounting support services to the hotels. These support services include planning and policy services, divisional financial services, product planning and development, employee staffing and training, corporate executive management and certain in-house legal services. We have certain approval rights over budgets, capital expenditures, significant leases and contractual commitments, and various other matters. General Terms and Provisions &#x2013; Agreements governing our hotels that are managed by brand owners (Marriott, Hyatt, Hilton and AccorHotels) typically include the terms described below: &#x2022; Term and fees for operational services . The initial term of our management and operating agreements generally is 10 to 25 years, with one or more renewal terms at the option of the manager. The majority of our management agreements condition the manager&#x2019;s right to exercise options for specified renewal terms upon the satisfaction of specified economic performance criteria. The manager typically receives compensation in the form of a base management fee, which is calculated as a percentage (generally 2-3%) of annual gross revenues, and an incentive management fee, which typically is calculated