ITEM 1 Business 3 ITEM 1A Risk Factors 9 ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 16 ITEM 2 Properties 16 ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings 17 ITEM 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 17 PART II 18 ITEM 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 ITEM 6 Reserved 20 ITEM 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 43 ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 45 ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 97 ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures 97 ITEM 9B Other Information 97 ITEM 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 97 PART III 98 ITEM 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 98 ITEM 11 Executive Compensation 98 ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 98 ITEM 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 99 ITEM 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 99 PART IV 100 ITEM 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 100 SIGNATURES 104 2 HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K PART I ITEM 1 Business Hubbell Incorporated (herein referred to as Hubbell , the Company , the registrant , we , our or us , which references shall include its divisions and subsidiaries as the context may require) was founded as a proprietorship in 1888, and was incorporated in Connecticut in 1905. Recognized for our innovation, quality, and deep commitment to serving our customers for over 130 years, Hubbell is a world-class manufacturer of electrical and utility solutions, with more than 75 brands used around the world. We provide utility and electrical solutions that enable our customers to operate critical infrastructure reliably and efficiently, and we empower and energize communities through innovative solutions supporting energy infrastructure In Front of the Meter, on The Edge, and Behind the Meter. In Front of the Meter is where utilities transmit and distribute energy to their customers. The Edge connects utilities with owner/operators and allows energy and data to be distributed back and forth. Behind the Meter is where owners and operators of building and other critical infrastructure consume energy. Our products are either sourced complete, manufactured or assembled by subsidiaries in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Mexico, the People s Republic of China ( China ), the United Kingdom ( UK ), Brazil, Australia, Spain and Ireland. Hubbell also participates in joint ventures in Hong Kong and the Philippines, and maintains offices in Singapore, Italy, China, India, Mexico, South Korea, Chile, and countries in the Middle East. The Company s reporting segments consist of the Electrical Solutions segment and the Utility Solutions segment. The Company s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of the Company s website at http://www.hubbell.com as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on the Company s website or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. Electrical Solutions Segment Hubbell Electrical Solutions is positioned Behind the Meter, providing key components to building operators and industrial customers that enable them to manage their energy and operate critical infrastructure more efficiently and effectively. The Electrical Solutions segment (44% of consolidated revenues in 2021, 44% in 2020 and 45% in 2019) comprises businesses that sell stock and custom products including standard and special application wiring device products, rough-in electrical products, connector and grounding products, and lighting fixtures, as well as other electrical equipment. Products of the Electrical Solutions segment have applications in the light industrial, non-residential, wireless communications, transportation, data center, and heavy industrial markets. Electrical Solutions segment products are typically used in and around industrial, commercial and institutional facilities by electrical contractors, maintenance personnel, electricians, utilities, and telecommunications companies. In addition, certain of our businesses design and manufacture industrial controls and communication systems used in the non-residential and industrial markets. Many of these products are designed such that they can also be used in harsh and hazardous locations where a potential for fire and explosion exists due to the presence of flammable gasses and vapors. Harsh and hazardous products are primarily used in the oil and gas (onshore and offshore) and mining industries. We also offer a variety of lighting fixtures, wiring devices and electrical products that have residential and utility applications, including residential products with Internet-of-Things ("IoT") enabled technologies. These products are sold under various brands and/or trademarks and are primarily sold through electrical and industrial distributors, home centers, retail and hardware outlets, lighting showrooms and residential product oriented internet sites. Special application products are primarily sold through wholesale distributors to contractors, industrial customers and original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ). Brands and/or trademarks of products of the Electrical segment include: Hubbell Bell Raco Gleason Reel ACME Electric Kellems TayMac Hipotronics Powerohm EC M Design Bryant Wiegmann AccelTex Solutions iDevices Progress Lighting Design Burndy Killark GAI-Tronics Connector Products Austdac CMC Hawke Chalmit HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K 3 Utility Solutions Segment Hubbell Utility Solutions has leading positions In Front of the Meter and at The Edge. The Utility Solutions segment (56% of consolidated revenues in 2021, 56% in 2020 and 55% in 2019) consists of businesses that design, manufacture, and sell a wide variety of electrical distribution, transmission, substation, and telecommunications products, which support applications In Front of the Meter. This includes utility transmission distribution (T D) components such as arresters, insulators, connectors, anchors, bushings, and enclosures. The Utility Solutions segment also offers solutions that serve The Edge of the utility infrastructure, including smart meters, communications systems, and protection and control devices. Hubbell Utility Solutions supports the electrical distribution, electrical transmission, water, gas distribution, telecommunications, and solar and wind markets. While Hubbell believes its sales in this area are not materially dependent upon any customer or group of customers, a substantial decrease in purchases by electrical utilities would affect this segment. Products of the Utility Solutions segment are sold under the following brands and/or trademarks: Aclara Chance Anderson PenCell Fargo Hubbell Polycast Opti-loop Design Quazite Quadri*sil Trinetics Reuel Electro Composites USCO CDR RFL Design Hot Box PCORE Delmar Turner Electric EMC Longbow Ohio Brass Meramec Reliaguard Greenjacket Armorcast Beckwith Electric Continental R.W. Lyall Gas Breaker AEC Discontinued Operations In October 2021, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Commercial and Industrial Lighting business for a cash purchase price of $350 million, subject to customary adjustments with respect to working capital and net indebtedness. The Commercial and Industrial Lighting business designs, manufactures and sells LED lighting and control solutions for commercial and industrial customers. This business was previously included in the Electrical Solutions segment and is now presented as a discontinued operation in our Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods presented. On February 1, 2022 we completed the sale. See also Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis Executive Overview of the Business and Results of Operations , as well as Note 2 Discontinued Operations, and Note 21 Industry Segments and Geographic Area Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Organizational Changes Effective January 1, 2021 the Company consolidated the three business groups within its Electrical segment, and renamed the segment as Hubbell Electrical Solutions ("Electrical Solutions"). The Electrical Solutions segment unites businesses with similar operating models, products, and go to market strategies under one operating banner and common leadership to drive synergies and long-term growth opportunities. Also effective January 1, 2021 the Company moved its Hubbell Gas Connectors and Accessories business, from the Electrical Solutions segment to the Utility Solutions segment to create synergies with the existing gas products already offered within the Utility Solutions segment and to better serve its utility customers. The Hubbell Gas Connectors and Accessories business represented approximately $157.1 million of Net sales and $19.4 million of operating profit in 2020. The information provided in the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes reflects the impact of this change for all periods presented. 4 HUBBELL INCORPORATED - Form 10-K Information Applicable to Our Business International Operations The Company has several operations located outside of the United States. These operations manufacture, assemble and/or procure and market Hubbell products and services for both the Electrical Solutions and Utility Solutions segments. See Note 21 Industry Segments and Geographic Area Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and