Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 36 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 36 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 38 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 38 Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39 Item 6. Reserved 42 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 43 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 124 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 124 Item 9B. Other Information 125 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 125 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 126 Item 11. Executive Compensation 127 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 127 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 128 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 128 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule 129 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 141 Signatures and Certifications 142 3 Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements under Business, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report may contain forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are made within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and we are including this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, trends and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the information discussed under the section entitled Risk Factors in this report. In making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update them in future filings or communications regarding our business or results. Our business is highly complicated, regulated and competitive with many different factors affecting results. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, Humana Inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to throughout this document as we, us, our, the Company or Humana, is committed to putting health first for our teammates, our customers, and our company. Through our Humana insurance services, and our CenterWell health care services, we make it easier for the millions of people we serve to achieve their best health delivering the care and service they need, when they need it. These efforts are leading to a better quality of life for people with Medicare, Medicaid, families, individuals, military service personnel, and communities at large. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 17 million members in our medical benefit plans, as well as approximately 5 million members in our specialty products. During 2023, 84% of our total premiums and services revenue were derived from contracts with the federal government, including 14% derived from our individual Medicare Advantage contracts in Florida with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, under which we provide health insurance coverage to approximately 851,300 members as of December 31, 2023. Humana Inc. was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1964. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, the telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000, and our website address is www.humana.com. We have made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2023 Form 10-K, contains both historical and forward-looking information. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business. Business Segments During December 2022, we realigned our businesses into two distinct segments: Insurance and CenterWell. The Insurance segment includes the businesses that were previously included in the Retail and Group and Specialty segments, as well as the Pharmacy Benefit Manager, or PBM, business which was previously included in the Healthcare Services segment. The CenterWell segment (formerly Healthcare Services) represents our payor-agnostic healthcare services offerings, including pharmacy solutions, primary care, and home solutions. In addition to the 4 new segment classifications being utilized to assess performance and allocate resources, we believe this simpler structure will create greater collaboration across the Insurance and CenterWell businesses and will accelerate work that is underway to centralize and integrate operations within the organization. 2021 segment financial information was recast to conform to the 2022 presentation. Our two reportable segments, Insurance and CenterWell, are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers. These segment groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Decision Maker, to assess performance and allocate resources. For additional information on our business segments and segment financial information, refer to Note 18 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Our Products Our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. These products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. Health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, include comprehensive managed care benefits generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals, and other providers. Preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, provide members the freedom to choose any health care provider. However, PPOs generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider s fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the PPO s network. Point of Service, or POS, plans combine the advantages of HMO plans with the flexibility of PPO plans. In general, POS plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan s network or outside the network. In addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy solutions, primary care, and home solutions, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. At the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. Three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction with us, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service, or FFS, to a value-based arrangement. Our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. The model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. The discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments. 5 Our Insurance Segment Products The Insurance segment is comprised of products serving Medicare and state-based contract beneficiaries sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans. This segment also includes products consisting of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits marketed to individuals and employer groups, including dental, vision and life insurance benefits, as well as administrative services only, or ASO. In addition, our Insurance segment includes our military services business as well as the operations of our PBM business. These products are described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Insurance segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2023: Insurance Segment Premiums and Services Revenue Percent of Consolidated Premiums and Services Revenue (dollars in millions) Premiums: Individual Medicare Advantage $ 78,837 74.9 % Group Medicare Advantage 6,869 6.5 % Medicare stand-alone PDP 2,189 2.1 % Total Medicare 87,895 83.5 % Commercial fully-insured 3,527 3.3 % Specialty benefits 1,007 1.0 % Medicare Supplement 735 0.7 % State-based contracts and other 8,108 7.7 % Total premiums revenue 101,272 96.2 % Services: Commercial ASO 237 0.2 % Military services and other 763 0.7 % Services revenue 1,000 0.9 % Total Insurance segment premiums and services revenue $ 102,272 97.1 % Medicare We have participated in the Medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of Medicare plan in all 50 states. We have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of PPO and HMO providers. We employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide Medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. We believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes. Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. CMS, an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, administers the Medicare program. Hospitalization benefits are provided under Part A, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under Part B. Beneficiaries eligible for Part A and Part B coverage under traditional fee-for-service Medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. Throughout this document this program is referred to as Medicare FFS. As an alternative to Medicare FFS, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with CMS pursuant to the Medicare Advantage program, Medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a Medicare Advantage organization under Medicare Part C. Pursuant to Medicare Part C, Medicare Advantage organizations contract with CMS to offer Medicare 6 Advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under Medicare FFS. Our Medicare Advantage, or MA, plans are discussed in the following sections. Prescription drug benefits are provided under Part D. Individual Medicare Advantage Products We contract with CMS under the Medicare Advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to Medicare eligible persons under HMO, PPO, Private Fee-For-Service, or PFFS, and Special Needs Plans, including Dual Eligible Special Needs, or D-SNP, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from CMS, usually a fixed payment per member per month. With each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of Medicare FFS, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly Part B premium. Most Medicare Advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under Part D as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. Accordingly, all of the provisions of the Medicare Part D program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for Medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. Generally, Medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on the following January 1. Our Medicare HMO and PPO plans, which cover Medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. Except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most HMO plans provide no out-of-network benefits. PPO plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. In some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the HMO or PPO plan in addition to the monthly Part B premium they are required to pay the Medicare program. Most of our Medicare PFFS plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that Medicare Advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that CMS determines have fewer than two network-based Medicare Advantage plans. In these areas, we offer Medicare PFFS plans that have no preferred network. Individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical Medicare Advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to Medicare FFS payment rates. CMS uses a risk-adjustment model which adjusts premiums paid to Medicare Advantage, or MA, plans according to health status of covered members. The risk-adjustment model, which CMS implemented pursuant to the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) and the Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA), generally pays more where a plan's membership has higher expected costs. Under this model, rates paid to MA plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on our estimated cost of providing standard Medicare-covered benefits to an enrollee with a "national average risk profile." That baseline payment amount is adjusted to account for certain demographic characteristics and health status of our enrolled members. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all MA plans must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The CMS risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data, collected from providers, to calculate the health status-related risk-adjusted premium payment to MA plans, which CMS further adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service (FFS) program. We generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to CMS as the basis for our health status-adjusted payment received from CMS under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. We also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. In addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. For additional information, 7 refer to Note 17 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K. At December 31, 2023, we provided health insurance coverage under CMS contracts to approximately 5,408,900 individual Medicare Advantage members, including approximately 851,300 members in Florida. These Florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $14.9 billion, which represented approximately 19% of our individual Medicare Advantage premiums revenue, or 14% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023. Our individual Medicare Advantage products covered under Medicare Advantage contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew by May 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS relating to our Medicare Advantage products have been renewed for 2024, and all of our product offerings filed with CMS for 2024 have been approved. Individual Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Products We offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or PDPs, under Medicare Part D, including a PDP offering co-branded with Walmart Inc., or the Humana-Walmart plan. Generally, Medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on the following January 1. Our stand-alone PDP offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by Congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. Our revenues from CMS and the beneficiary are determined from our PDP bids submitted annually to CMS. These revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in Note 2 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, titled Receivables and Revenue Recognition. Our stand-alone PDP contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew by May 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS relating to our Medicare stand-alone PDP products have been renewed for 2024, and all of our product offerings filed with CMS for 2024 have been approved. We have administered CMS s Limited Income Newly Eligible Transition, or LI-NET, prescription drug plan program since 2010. This program allows individuals who receive Medicare s low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a Medicare Part D plan. CMS temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both Medicare and Medicaid into the LI-NET prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a Medicare Part D plan that may or may not be a Humana Medicare plan. Group Medicare Advantage and Medicare Stand-Alone PDP We offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace Medicare wrap or Medicare supplement products with Medicare Advantage or stand-alone PDPs from Humana. These products are primarily offered as PPO plans on the same Medicare platform as individual Medicare Advantage plans. These plans offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual Medicare plans discussed previously, however, group Medicare Advantage plans typically have richer benefit offerings than individual Medicare Advantage plans, including prescription drug coverage in the gap, for instance, due to the desire of many customers to closely match their pre-retirement benefit structure. Medicare Supplement We also offer Medicare supplement products that help pay the medical expenses that Medicare FFS does not cover, such as copayments, coinsurance and deductibles. 8 State-based Contracts Through our state-based contracts, we serve members enrolled in Medicaid, a program funded by both the federal and state governments and administered by states to care for their most vulnerable populations. Within federal guidelines, states determine whom to cover, but general categories for traditional Medicaid programs include: children and parents receiving assistance through Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF); Aged, Blind, and Disabled (ABD) individuals; and Medicaid Expansion adults. Through Medicaid Managed Long-Term Support Services (MLTSS) programs, states offer programs to deliver support services to people who receive home and community or institution-based services for long-term care. We have contracts in multiple states to serve Medicaid-eligible members, including Florida, Kentucky, Illinois, Louisiana, Ohio, South Carolina and Wisconsin. We were awarded new Medicaid contracts in Oklahoma and Indiana, which we expect to become effective April 1, 2024 and July 1, 2024, respectively. We also serve members who qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare, referred to as "dual eligible", through our Medicaid, Medicare Advantage, and stand-alone prescription drug plans. As the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of costs, Humana is participating in varied integration models designed to improve health outcomes and reduce avoidable costs. These programs largely operate separately from traditional Medicaid programs. As part of our individual Medicare Advantage products, we also offer Dual-Eligible Special Needs Plans (D-SNP). In connection with offering a D-SNP in a particular state, we are required to enter into a special coordinating contract with the applicable state Medicaid agency. To meet federal requirements that took effect in 2021, states have implemented new D-SNP requirements to strengthen Medicaid-Medicare integration requirements for D-SNPs. Some states are also moving to support the dual eligible population by linking D-SNP participation to enrollment in a plan that also participates in a state-based Medicaid program to coordinate and integrate both Medicare and Medicaid benefits. Group Commercial Coverage In February 2023, we announced our planned exit from the Employer Group Commercial Medical Products business, which includes all fully insured, self-funded and Federal Employee Health Benefit medical plans, as well as associated wellness and rewards programs. No other Humana health plan offerings are materially affected. Following a strategic review, we determined the Employer Group Commercial Medical Products business was no longer positioned to sustainably meet the needs of commercial members over the long term or support our long-term strategic plans. The exit from this line of business will be phased over the 18 to 24 months following our February 2023 announcement. We sell specialty and ancillary insurance benefits consisting of dental, vision, life and disability to employer groups. In addition, we sell dental and vision specialty insurance benefits to individuals. For in-force group commercial medical customers and members, our commercial products include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through HMO, PPO, or POS plans, or self-funded basis. Our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. Our ASO products are offered to small group and large group employers who self-insure their employee health plans. We receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. These products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured HMO, PPO, or POS products described previously. Under ASO contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing the costs of health benefits, with large group customers retaining a greater share and small group customers a smaller share of the cost of health benefits. All small group ASO customers and many 9 large group ASO customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs. Military Services Under our TRICARE contracts with the United States Department of Defense, or DoD, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for active-duty and retired military personnel and their dependents. We have participated in the TRICARE program since 1996 under contracts with the DoD. Under our contracts, we provide administrative services while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. Accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. On January 1, 2018, we began to deliver services under the T2017 East Region contract. The T2017 East Region contract comprises 32 states and approximately 6 million TRICARE beneficiaries. The T2017 East Region contract, which was originally set to expire on December 31, 2022, was subsequently extended by the DoD and is currently scheduled to expire on December 31, 2024, unless further extended. In December 2022, we were awarded the next generation of TRICARE Managed Care Support Contracts, or T-5, for the updated TRICARE East Region by the Defense Health Agency of the DoD. The T-5 East Region contract comprises 24 states, and Washington D.C., and covers approximately 4.6 million beneficiaries. The transition period for the T-5 contract began in January 2024 and will overlap the final year of the T2017 contract. The length of the contract is one transition year followed by eight annual option periods, which, if all options are exercised, would result in a total contract length of nine years. Our CenterWell Segment Products The products offered by our CenterWell segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. This segment includes our pharmacy solutions, primary care, and home solutions operations. The CenterWell segment also includes our strategic partnerships with Welsh, Carson, Anderson Stowe, or WCAS, to develop and operate senior-focused, payor-agnostic, primary care centers, as well as our minority ownership interest in hospice operations. Services offered by this segment are designed to enhance the overall healthcare experience. These services may lead to lower utilization associated with improved member health and/or lower drug costs. For information on our intersegment revenues, refer to Note 18 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. The following table presents our services revenue for the CenterWell segment by line of business for the year ended December 31, 2023: 10 CenterWell Segment Services Revenue Percent of Consolidated Premiums and Services Revenue (dollars in millions) Intersegment revenues: Home solutions $ 1,589 n/a Pharmacy solutions 10,451 n/a Primary care 3,332 n/a Total intersegment revenues $ 15,372 n/a External services revenue: Home solutions $ 1,342 1.3 % Pharmacy solutions 849 0.8 % Primary care 842 0.8 % Total external services revenue $ 3,033 2.9 % n/a not applicable Pharmacy Solutions Our pharmacy solutions business includes the operations of CenterWell Pharmacy (our mail-order pharmacy business), CenterWell Specialty Pharmacy, and other retail pharmacies located within CenterWell Primary Care clinics for brand, generic, specialty drugs, over the counter medications and supplies, as well as hospice pharmacy drugs. Primary Care We operate full-service, value-based senior focused primary care centers in a number of states, including Georgia, Florida, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Arizona and Kentucky staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists with a primary focus on the senior population under our Primary Care Organization, or PCO. PCO operates these clinics primarily under the Conviva Care Centers and CenterWell Senior Primary Care brands. Our primary care subsidiaries operate our medical center business through both employed physicians and care providers, and through third party management service organizations with whom we contract to arrange for and manage certain clinical services. PCO currently operates 296 primary care clinics and employ