Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 107 Item 9B. Other Information 107 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 107 Item 11. Executive Compensation 107 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 108 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 108 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 108 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 117 Signatures 118 Note on Incorporation by Reference In this Form 10-K, selected items of information and data are incorporated by reference to portions of the Proxy Statement. Unless otherwise provided herein, any reference in this report to disclosures in the Proxy Statement shall constitute incorporation by reference of only that specific disclosure into this Form 10-K. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General Arconic Inc. is a Delaware corporation with its principal office in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and the successor to Arconic Pennsylvania (as defined below) which was formed in 1888 and formerly known as Alcoa Inc. In this report, unless the context otherwise requires, Arconic or the Company means Arconic Inc., a Delaware corporation, and all subsidiaries consolidated for the purposes of its financial statements. The Company s Internet address is http://www.arconic.com . Arconic makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information on the Company s Internet site is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this annual report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports at http://www.sec.gov . Forward-Looking Statements This report contains (and oral communications made by Arconic may contain) statements that relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, forecasts, goal, guidance, intends, may, outlook, plans, projects, seeks, sees, should, targets, will, would, or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Arconic s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, forecasts relating to the growth of the aerospace, automotive, commercial transportation and other end markets; statements and guidance regarding future financial results or operating performance; statements about Arconic s strategies, outlook, business and financial prospects; and statements regarding potential share gains. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Although Arconic believes that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained and it is possible that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of some of the specific factors that may cause Arconic s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements, see the following sections of this report: Part I, Item 1A. (Risk Factors), Part II, Item 7. (Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), including the disclosures under Segment Information and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, and Note T to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Market projections are subject to the risks discussed in this report and other risks in the market. Arconic disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Overview Arconic Inc. ( Arconic or the Company ) is a global leader in lightweight metals engineering and manufacturing. Arconic s innovative, multi-material products, which include aluminum, titanium, and nickel, are used worldwide in aerospace, automotive, commercial transportation, building and construction, industrial applications, defense, and packaging. Arconic is a global company operating in 18 countries. Based upon the country where the point of sale occurred, the United States and Europe generated 67% and 23%, respectively, of Arconic s sales in 2019. In addition, Arconic has operating activities in numerous countries and regions outside the United States, including Europe, Canada, China, Japan, and Russia. Governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, affect the results of operations in countries with such operating activities . Arconic has two reportable segments, which are organized by product on a worldwide basis: Engineered Products and Forgings (EP F) and Global Rolled Products (GRP). Background Arconic Inc. Reincorporation On December 31, 2017 (the Effective Date ), Arconic Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation ( Arconic Pennsylvania or, prior to the Reincorporation (as defined below), the Company ), effected the change of the Company s jurisdiction of incorporation from Pennsylvania to Delaware (the Reincorporation ) by merging (the Reincorporation Merger ) with a direct wholly owned Delaware subsidiary, Arconic (in this section, Arconic Delaware or, following the Reincorporation, the Company ), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Reincorporation Merger Agreement ), dated as of October 12, 2017, by and 1 Table of Contents between Arconic Pennsylvania and Arconic Delaware. Arconic Pennsylvania shareholders approved the Reincorporation Merger to effect the Reincorporation at a Special Meeting of Shareholders held on November 30, 2017. As a result of the Reincorporation, (i) Arconic Pennsylvania has ceased to exist, (ii) Arconic Delaware automatically inherited the reporting obligations of Arconic Pennsylvania under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and (iii) Arconic Delaware is deemed to be the successor issuer to Arconic Pennsylvania. The common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Arconic Pennsylvania (the Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock ) was listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol ARNC. As of the Effective Date, this symbol, without interruption, represents shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Arconic Delaware (the Arconic Delaware Common Stock ). There was no change in the Exchange Act File Number assigned by the SEC as a result of the Reincorporation. As of the Effective Date, the rights of the Company s stockholders began to be governed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Certificate of Incorporation of Arconic Delaware (the Delaware Certificate ) and the Bylaws of Arconic Delaware (the Delaware Bylaws ). Other than the change in corporate domicile, the Reincorporation did not result in any change in the business, physical location, management, financial condition or number of authorized shares of the Company, nor did it result in any change in location of its current employees, including management. On the Effective Date, (i) the directors and officers of Arconic Pennsylvania prior to the Reincorporation continued as the directors and officers of Arconic Delaware after the Reincorporation, (ii) each outstanding share of Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock was automatically converted into one share of Arconic Delaware Common Stock, (iii) each outstanding share of Serial Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, of Arconic Pennsylvania (the Arconic Pennsylvania Preferred Stock ) was automatically converted into one share of Serial Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, of Arconic Delaware (the Arconic Delaware Preferred Stock ) and (iv) all of Arconic Pennsylvania s employee benefit and compensation plans immediately prior to the Reincorporation were continued by Arconic Delaware, and each outstanding equity award and notional share unit relating to shares of Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock was converted into an equity award or notional share unit, as applicable, relating to an equivalent number of shares of Arconic Delaware Common Stock on the same terms and subject to the same conditions. Beginning at the effective time of the Reincorporation, each certificate representing Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock or Arconic Pennsylvania Preferred Stock was deemed for all corporate purposes to evidence ownership of Arconic Delaware Common Stock or Arconic Delaware Preferred Stock, as applicable. The Company s stockholders may, but are not required to, exchange their stock certificates as a result of the Reincorporation. The foregoing descriptions of the Arconic Delaware Common Stock, the Arconic Delaware Preferred Stock, the Delaware Certificate and the Delaware Bylaws are qualified in their entirety by the full text of the Delaware Certificate and the Delaware Bylaws, which are filed as Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b), respectively, to this report. Alcoa Corporation Separation Transaction On November 1, 2016, Alcoa Inc. completed the separation of its business into two independent, publicly traded companies (the Separation of Alcoa ) Alcoa Corporation and Arconic Inc. (the new name for Alcoa Inc.). Following the Separation of Alcoa, Alcoa Corporation holds the Alumina and Primary Metals segments, the rolling mill at the Warrick, Indiana operations and the 25.1% stake in the Ma aden Rolling Company in Saudi Arabia previously held by the Company. The Company retained the Global Rolled Products (other than the rolling mill at the Warrick, Indiana operations and the 25.1% ownership stake in the Ma aden Rolling Company), Engineered Products and Solutions and Transportation and Construction Solutions segments. The Separation of Alcoa was effected by a pro rata distribution of 80.1% of the outstanding shares of Alcoa Corporation common stock to the Company s shareholders (the Distribution of Alcoa ). The Company s shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 20, 2016 (the Record Date ) received one share of Alcoa Corporation common stock for every three shares of the Company s common stock held as of the Record Date. The Company did not issue fractional shares of Alcoa Corporation common stock in the Distribution of Alcoa. Instead, each shareholder otherwise entitled to receive a fractional share of Alcoa Corporation common stock received cash in lieu of fractional shares. The Company distributed 146,159,428 shares of common stock of Alcoa Corporation in the Distribution of Alcoa and retained 36,311,767 shares, or approximately 19.9%, of the common stock of Alcoa Corporation immediately following the Distribution of Alcoa. As a result of the Distribution of Alcoa, Alcoa Corporation became an independent public company trading under the symbol AA on the New York Stock Exchange, and the Company trades under the symbol ARNC on the New York Stock Exchange. During 2017, the Company disposed of its retained interest in Alcoa Corporation. In February 2017, the Company sold 23,353,000 shares of Alcoa Corporation stock at $38.03 per share, which resulted in cash proceeds of $888 million and a gain of $351 million. In April and May 2017, the Company acquired a portion of its outstanding notes held by two investment banks (the Investment Banks ) in exchange for cash and the Company s remaining 12,958,767 shares (valued at $35.91 per share) in 2 Table of Contents Alcoa Corporation stock (the Debt-for-Equity Exchange ) and recorded a gain of $167 million. The gains of $351 million and $167 million associated with the disposition of the Alcoa Corporation shares were recorded in Other expense (income), net in the accompanying Statement of Consolidated Operations in Part II, Item 8 (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). On October 31, 2016, in connection with the Separation of Alcoa and the Distribution of Alcoa, Arconic entered into several agreements with Alcoa Corporation or its subsidiaries that govern the relationship of the parties following the Distribution of Alcoa, including the following: Separation and Distribution Agreement, Transition Services Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement, certain Patent, Know-How, Trade Secret License and Trademark License Agreements, Toll Processing and Services Agreement, Master Agreement for the Supply of Primary Aluminum, Massena Lease and Operations Agreement, Fusina Lease and Operations Agreement, and Stockholder and Registration Rights Agreement. The Toll Processing and Services Agreement expired by its terms at the end of 2018. Recent Developments On January 22, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors (the Board) had determined to no longer pursue a potential sale of Arconic as part of its strategy and portfolio review. Management and the Board had been conducting a rigorous and comprehensive strategy and portfolio review over the past year and as part of that process had considered a sale of the Company, among other matters. However, the Company did not receive a proposal for a full-Company transaction that management and the Board believed would be in the best interest of Arconic s shareholders and other stakeholders. Management and the Board remain confident in Arconic s significant potential and are strongly focused on enhancing value for shareholders, through continued operational improvements and through other potential initiatives which had been previously identified in the strategy and portfolio review. On February 8, 2019, Arconic announced, as part of its strategy and portfolio review, a separation of its portfolio into two independent, publicly-traded companies (the Separation of Arconic ). The Engineered Products and Forgings (EP F) businesses (engine products, fastening systems, engineered structures and forged wheels) will remain in the existing company, which will be renamed Howmet Aerospace Inc. and change its stock ticker from ARNC to HWM in connection with the separation. The Global Rolled Products (GRP) businesses (global rolled products, aluminum extrusions and building and construction systems) will be held by a new company that will be named Arconic Corporation at separation and that intends to list its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol ARNC. On February 6, 2020, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has approved the completion of the Separation of Arconic. Timothy D. Myers will serve as Arconic Corporation Chief Executive Officer. The Arconic Inc. Board has also named new directors to the Arconic Corporation and Howmet Aerospace Boards: Joining the Arconic Corporation Board of Directors will be: Timothy Myers; William Austen; Christopher Ayers*; Margaret Billson; Austin Camporin; Jacques Croisetiere; Elmer Doty*; Carol Eicher; Fritz Henderson; E. Stanley O Neal*; and Jeffrey Stafeil. * Will resign from the Arconic Inc. Board Joining the Howmet Aerospace Board will be: Joseph Cantie; Robert Leduc; Jody Miller; and Nicole Piasecki. The Separation of Arconic will occur by means of a pro rata distribution by Arconic Inc. (which will be renamed Howmet Aerospace Inc.) of all of the outstanding common stock of Arconic Corporation (the Distribution of Arconic ). The Distribution of Arconic is intended to qualify as a tax-free transaction to Arconic Inc. stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Distribution of Arconic Information At the time of separation, Arconic Inc. stockholders are expected to receive one share of Arconic Corporation common stock for every four shares of Arconic Inc. common stock held as of the record date. The record date will be March 19, 2020 and the time of the distribution will be 12:01 A.M. on April 1, 2020. At the time of separation, stockholders of Arconic Inc. will retain their shares of Arconic Inc. Due to the name change of Arconic Inc. to Howmet Aerospace Inc. upon separation, these shares will become Howmet Aerospace Inc. shares. No fractional shares of Arconic Corporation common stock will be issued in the distribution, and stockholders will receive cash in lieu of fractional shares. The separation distribution is expected to be paid on April 1, 2020 to Arconic Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on the record date. The distribution remains subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions described in Arconic Rolled Products Corporation s Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended. The Form 10 has been filed by Arconic Rolled Products Corporation with the SEC and is available at www.arconic.com . 3 Table of Contents No action is required by Arconic Inc. stockholders to receive shares of Arconic Corporation common stock in the distribution. Arconic Inc. expects to make available an information statement to all stockholders entitled to receive the distribution of shares of Arconic Corporation common stock. The information statement is filed as an exhibit to Arconic Rolled Products Corporation s Registration Statement on Form 10 and describes Arconic Corporation and certain risks of owning Arconic Corporation common stock and provides other information regarding the separation and distribution. Trading Common Stock Arconic Inc. stockholders who hold shares of common stock on the record date of March 19, 2020, and decide to sell any of those shares before the distribution date, should consult their stockbroker, bank or other nominee to understand whether the shares of Arconic Inc. common stock will be sold with or without entitlement to Arconic Corporation common stock pursuant to the distribution. Beginning on or about March 18, 2020, and continuing up to and through the distribution date, two markets are expected for Arconic Inc. common stock: the regular-way market and the ex-distribution market. Shares that trade in the regular-way market will be entitled to shares of Arconic Corporation common stock distributed pursuant to the distribution shares that trade in the ex-distribution market will trade under the symbol HWM WI and without an entitlement to shares of Arconic Corporation common stock distributed pursuant to the distribution. Arconic Corporation anticipates when-issued trading of its common stock will begin on or about March 18, 2020, under the symbol ARNC WI, and will continue up to and through the distribution date. Regular-way trading in Arconic Corporation s common stock is expected to begin on April 1, 2020. The separation date may change if certain conditions are not satisfied by that date, as described in Arconic Rolled Products Corporation s information statement filed with the Form 10. Note Offering On February 7, 2020, the Company announced that Arconic Rolled Products Corporation (the Issuer ), which is currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arconic, closed its offering of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6.125% second-lien notes due 2028 (the Notes ). The Issuer intends to use the proceeds from the offering to make a payment to Arconic to fund the transfer of certain assets from Arconic to the Issuer in connection with the Separation of Arconic and for general corporate purposes. The net proceeds from the offering will be held in escrow until the completion of the Separation of Arconic and the satisfaction of certain other escrow release conditions. Prior to the separation, the Notes will not be guaranteed. Following the separation, the Notes will be guaranteed by certain of the Issuer s wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. Each of the Notes and the related guarantees will be secured on a second-priority basis by liens on certain assets of the Issuer and the guarantors. The Notes and related guarantees were sold in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and to certain non-United States persons in offshore transactions in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes and related guarantees have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act or the securities laws of any other jurisdiction and may not be offered or sold in the United States or to, or for the benefit of, U.S. persons absent registration under, or an applicable exemption from, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. 4 Table of Contents Description of the Business Information describing Arconic s businesses can be found on the indicated pages of this report: Item Page(s) Discussion of Recent Business Developments: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Overview and Results of Operations 37 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements: Note C. Restructuring and Other Charges 72 Note F. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits 75 Note G. Income Taxes 82 Note S. Acquisitions and Divestitures 98 Note T. Contingencies and Commitments 100 Segment Information: Business Descriptions, Principal Products, Principal Markets, Methods of Distribution, Seasonality and Dependence Upon Customers: Engineered Products and Forgings 41 Global Rolled Products 42 Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas: Note B. Segment and Geographic Area Information 67 Major Product Sales Products that contributed 10% or more to consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , were: For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Innovative flat-rolled products 39 % 40 % 39 % Engine products 24 % 21 % 21 % Fastening systems 11 % 11 % 11 % Engineered structures 8 % 13 % 13 % Arconic has no customer that accounts for 10% or more of its consolidated sales. However, certain of the Company s businesses are dependent upon a few significant customers. The loss of any such significant customer could have a material adverse effect on such businesses. Engineered Products and Forgings Arconic s Engineered Products and Forgings segment ( EP F ) produces products that are used primarily in the aerospace (commercial and defense), industrial, commercial transportation, and power generation end markets. Such products include fastening systems (titanium, steel, and nickel superalloys) and seamless rolled rings (mostly nickel superalloys); investment castings (nickel superalloys, titanium, and aluminum), including airfoils; forged jet engine components (e.g., jet engine disks); extruded, machined and forged aircraft parts (titanium and aluminum); and forged aluminum commercial vehicle wheels, all of which are sold directly to customers and through distributors. A small part of this segment also produces various forged and machined metal products (titanium and aluminum) for various end markets. In the third quarter of 2019, the Company realigned its operations by eliminating its Transportation and Construction Solutions (TCS) segment and transferring the Forged Wheels business to its EP F segment and the Building and Construction Systems business to its GRP segment, consistent with how the Chief Executive Officer is assessing operating performance and allocating capital in conjunction with the planned Separation of Arconic. The Latin American extrusions business, which was formerly part of the Company's TCS segment until its sale in April of 2018, was moved to Corporate. In the first quarter of 2019, the Company transferred its aluminum extrusions operations (Aluminum Extrusions) from its Engineered Structures business unit within the EP F segment to the GRP segment, based on synergies with GRP including similar customer base, technologies, and manufacturing capabilities. 5 Table of Contents Engine Products. Engine Products produces investment cast airfoils, seamless rolled rings and closed-die (including isothermal) forged turbine disks for aero engine and industrial gas turbines, as well as other structural aero engine components. Engine Products also provides additive manufacturing technologies, superalloy ingots, open-die forging, machining, performance coatings, and hot isostatic pressing for high performance parts. Fastening Systems. Fastening Systems produces aerospace fastening systems, as well as commercial transportation fasteners. The business s high-tech, multi-material fastening systems are found nose to tail on aircraft and aero engines. The business s products are also critical components of industrial gas turbines, automobiles, commercial transportation vehicles, and construction and industrial equipment. Engineered Structures. Engineered Structures produces titanium and aluminum ingots and mill products for aerospace and defense applications and is vertically integrated to produce structural investment castings, forgings and extrusions, for airframe, wing, aero-engine, and landing gear components. Engineered Structures also provides multi-material airframe subassemblies and solutions related to advanced technologies and materials, such as 3D printing and titanium aluminides. Forged Wheels. Forged Wheels provides forged aluminum wheels and related products for heavy-duty trucks and the commercial transportation markets. For additional discussion of the EP F segment's business, see Results of Operations Segment Information in Part II, Item 7. (Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. (Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). On May 31, 2019, Arco nic sold a small additive manufacturing facility outside of Austin, TX within the EP F segment. The sale is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. On August 15, 2019, Arconic sold inventories and properties, plants, and equipment related to a small energy business (RTI Energy) within the EP F segment. In December 2019, Arconic c losed the sale of its forgings business in the United Kingdom subject to working capital and other adjustments. The forgings business primarily produced steel, titanium, and nickel based forged components for aerospace, mining, and off-highway markets and its operating results and assets and liabilities were included in the EP F segment. 6 Table of Contents Engineered Products and Forgings Principal Facilities 1 Country Facility Products Australia Oakleigh Fasteners Canada Georgetown, Ontario 2 Aerospace Castings Laval, Qu bec Aerospace Castings and Machining China Suzhou 2 Fasteners, Rings and Forgings France Dives-sur-Mer Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Evron Aerospace and Specialty Castings Gennevilliers Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Montbrison Fasteners St. Cosme-en-Vairais 2 Fasteners Toulouse Fasteners Us-par-Vigny Fasteners Germany Bestwig Aerospace Castings Erwitte Aerospace Castings Hildesheim-Bavenstedt 2 Fasteners Kelkheim 2 Fasteners Hungary Nemesv mos Fasteners Sz kesfeh rv r Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Forgings Japan J etsu City 2 Forgings Nomi Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Mexico Ciudad Acu a 2 Aerospace Castings/Fasteners and Rings Monterrey Forgings Morocco Casablanca 2 Fasteners United Kingdom Ecclesfield Ingot Castings Exeter 2 Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Alloy Glossop Ingot Castings Ickles Ingot Castings Leicester 2 Fasteners Low Moor Extrusions Redditch 2 Fasteners Telford Fasteners Welwyn Garden City Aerospace Formed Parts 7 Table of Contents Country Facility Products United States Tucson, AZ 2 Fasteners Carson, CA 2 Fasteners City of Industry, CA 2 Fasteners Fontana, CA Rings Fullerton, CA 2 Fasteners Rancho Cucamonga, CA Rings Sylmar, CA Fasteners Torrance, CA Fasteners Branford, CT Aerospace Coatings Winsted, CT Aerospace Machining Savannah, GA Forgings La Porte, IN Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Whitehall, MI Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Coatings, Titanium Alloy and Specialty Products Washington, MO Aerospace Formed Parts, Titanium Mill Products Big Lake, MN Aerospace Machining New Brighton, MN Aerospace Machining Dover, NJ Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Alloy Verdi, NV Rings Kingston, NY 2 Fasteners Rochester, NY Rings Barberton, OH Forgings Canton, OH 2 Ferro-Titanium Alloys and Titanium Mill Products Cleveland, OH Investment Casting Equipment, Aerospace Components, Castings, Forgings and Oil Gas Drilling Products Niles, OH Titanium Mill Products Morristown, TN 2 Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Ceramic Products Houston, TX 2 Extrusions Waco, TX 2 Fasteners Wichita Falls, TX Aerospace and I