Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 16 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 18 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 20 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 36 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 37 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 83 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 83 Item 9B. Other Information 83 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspection 83 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 83 Item 11. Executive Compensation 83 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 84 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 84 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 84 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 85 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Signatures 92 Note on Incorporation by Reference In this Form 10-K, selected items of information and data are incorporated by reference to portions of Howmet Aerospace Inc. s definitive proxy statement for its 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the Proxy Statement ), which we expect to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after Howmet Aerospace Inc. s fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Unless otherwise provided herein, any reference in this report to disclosures in the Proxy Statement shall constitute incorporation by reference of only that specific disclosure into this Form 10-K. Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains (and oral communications made by Howmet Aerospace Inc. ( Howmet ) may contain) statements that relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as anticipates , believes , could , estimates , expects , forecasts , goal , guidance , intends , may , outlook , plans , projects , seeks , sees , should , targets , will , would , or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Howmet s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements, forecasts and outlook relating to the condition of end markets; future financial results, operating performance, or estimated or expected future capital expenditures; future strategic actions; Howmet's strategies, outlook, and business and financial prospects; and any future dividends and repurchases of its debt or equity securities. These statements reflect beliefs and assumptions that are based on Howmet s perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors Howmet believes are appropriate in the circumstances. Although Howmet believes that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained, and it is possible that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. For a discussion of some of the specific factors that may cause Howmet s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements, see the following sections of this report: Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors), Part II, Item 7 (Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), including the disclosures under Segment Information and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, and Note U to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 . Market projections are subject to the risks discussed in this report and other risks in the market. Howmet disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General Howmet Aerospace Inc. (formerly known as Arconic Inc.) is a Delaware corporation with its principal office in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and the successor to Arconic Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation formed in 1888 and formerly known as Alcoa Inc. In this report, unless the context otherwise requires, Howmet , the Company , we , us , and our refer to Howmet Aerospace Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company s Internet address is http://www.howmet.com. Howmet makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The Company s website is included in this annual report on Form 10-K as an inactive textual reference only. The information on, or accessible through, the Company s website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this annual report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports at http://www.sec.gov. Background As described below, Howmet Aerospace Inc. was previously named Arconic Inc. and, prior to that, Alcoa Inc. The Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction. On April 1, 2020, Arconic Inc. separated its businesses (the Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction ) into two independent, publicly traded companies: Howmet Aerospace Inc. (the new name for Arconic Inc.) and Arconic Corporation. Following this separation, Howmet retained the Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures, and Forged Wheels businesses; and its prior Rolled Products, Aluminum Extrusions, and Building and Construction Systems businesses were spun-off to Arconic Corporation. In connection with the Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction, Howmet and Arconic Corporation entered into several agreements that govern their post-separation relationship. The 2017 Reincorporation in Delaware. On December 31, 2017, Arconic Inc., then a Pennsylvania corporation, changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from Pennsylvania to Delaware. The Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction. On November 1, 2016, Alcoa Inc. completed the separation of its business (the Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction ) into two independent, publicly traded companies: Arconic Inc. (the new name for Alcoa Inc., which, through the transactions described above, later became Howmet Aerospace Inc.) and Alcoa Corporation. Following this separation, the Company retained the Engineered Products and Solutions, Global Rolled Products, and Transportation and Construction Solutions businesses; and its previous Alumina and Primary Metals businesses, rolling mill operations in Warrick, Indiana and 25.1% interest in the Ma aden Rolling Company were spun-off to Alcoa Corporation. In connection with the Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction, the two companies entered into several agreements that govern their post-separation relationship. Overview Howmet is a leading global provider of advanced engineered solutions for the aerospace and transportation industries. The Company s primary businesses focus on jet engine components, aerospace fastening systems, and airframe structural components necessary for mission-critical performance and efficiency in aerospace and defense applications, as well as forged aluminum wheels for commercial transportation. Howmet s technological capabilities support the innovation and growth of next-generation aerospace programs. Its differentiated technologies enable lighter, more fuel-efficient aircraft and commercial trucks to operate with a lower carbon footprint and support more sustainable air and ground transportation. Howmet is a global company operating in 20 countries. Based upon the country where the point of shipment occurred, North America and Europe generated 70% and 23%, respectively, of Howmet s sales in 2023. In addition, Howmet has operating activities in numerous countries and regions outside of North America and Europe, including China and Japan. 1 Table of Contents Description of the Business The Company produces products that are used primarily in the aerospace (commercial and defense), commercial transportation, and industrial and other markets. Howmet seeks to provide its customers with innovative solutions through offering differentiated products such as airfoils with advanced cooling and coatings for extreme temperature applications; specially-designed fasteners for lightweight composite airframe construction, reduced assembly costs, and lightning strike protection; and lightweight aluminum commercial wheels. Its products and solutions include investment castings for jet engines and industrial gas turbines (nickel superalloys, titanium, and aluminum), including airfoils and structural parts; seamless rolled rings for jet engines (mostly nickel superalloys); fastening systems for aerospace, industrial and commercial transportation applications (titanium, steel, and nickel superalloys); forged jet engine components (e.g., jet engine disks); machined and forged aircraft parts (titanium and aluminum); and forged aluminum commercial vehicle wheels, all of which are sold directly to customers and/or through distributors. Aerospace (Commercial and Defense) Market. Howmet s largest market is aerospace, which represented approximately 64% of the Company s revenue in 2023. The Company produces a range of high performance multi-materials, highly engineered products, and vertically integrated machined solutions for aero engines and airframe structures, ranging from investment castings, advanced coatings, seamless rings, forgings, titanium extrusions, and titanium mill products, to fasteners that hold aircraft together. Wingtip to wingtip, nose to tail, Howmet can produce more than 90% of all structural and rotating aero engine components. Modernization of the commercial and defense platforms is driven by an array of challenging performance requirements. With its precision engineering, materials science expertise, and advanced manufacturing processes, Howmet aims to help its customers achieve greater fuel economies, reduced emissions, passenger comfort, and maintenance efficiencies. Commercial Transportation Market . The commercial transportation market represented approximately 21% of the Company s revenue in 2023. The Company invented the forged aluminum truck wheel in 1948, and continues to advance technology to deliver breakthrough solutions that make trucks and buses lighter, more fuel efficient and sharper-looking. Howmet s forged aluminum wheels are a leading choice for commercial trucks and mass transportation vehicles because they can reduce weight and save fuel. The strength of the Company s rivets, bolts and fasteners offers another light-weighting solution that delivers performance. Industrial and Other Markets. Industrial and other markets include industrial gas turbines, oil and gas, and other industrials, which represented approximately 15% of the Company s revenue in 2023. Howmet has four reportable segments, which are organized by product on a worldwide basis: Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures and Forged Wheels. Engine Products Engine Products utilizes advanced designs and techniques to support next-generation engine programs and produces components primarily for aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines, including airfoils and seamless rolled rings. Engine Products produces rotating parts as well as structural parts. Engine Products principally serves the commercial and defense aerospace, industrial gas turbine, and oil and gas markets. Fastening Systems Fastening Systems produces aerospace and industrial fastening systems as well as commercial transportation fasteners and installation tools . In addition to highly engineered aerospace fasteners with a broad range of fastening systems, the segment also supplies the commercial transportation, renewable, and material handling industries. The business s high-tech, multi-material fastening systems are found nose to tail on commercial and military aircraft, as well as on jet engines, industrial gas turbines, commercial transportation vehicles, wind turbines, solar power systems, and construction and industrial equipment . Engineered Structures Engineered Structures produces titanium ingots and mill products for aerospace and defense applications and is vertically integrated to produce titanium forgings, extrusions, forming and machining services for airframe, wing, aero-engine, and landing gear components. Engineered Structures also produces aluminum forgings, nickel forgings, and aluminum machined components, and assemblies for aerospace and defense applications. The principal markets served by Engineered Structures are commercial aerospace, defense aerospace, and land and sea defense. Forged Wheels Forged Wheels manufactures forged aluminum wheels for trucks, buses, and trailers and related products for the global commercial transportation market. The Company s portfolio of wheels is sold under the product brand name Alcoa Wheels, which are five times stronger and 47% lighter than steel wheels. The Ultra ONE Wheel with MagnaForce alloy is the lightest portfolio of wheels on the market. The Company s proprietary Dura-Bright surface treatment is unmatched in appearance and corrosion protection. 2 Table of Contents For additional discussion of each segment's business, see Results of Operations Segment Information in Part II, Item 7 (Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Note C to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 . Sales by Market and Significant Customer Revenue Sales by market for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, were: For the Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 2021 Aerospace - Commercial 49 % 46 % 41 % Aerospace - Defense 15 % 16 % 19 % Commercial Transportation 21 % 23 % 23 % Industrial and Other 15 % 15 % 17 % In 2023, General Electric Company and RTX Corporation represented approximately 12% and 9% , respectively, of the Company s third-party sales. The loss of any such significant customer could have a material adverse effect on such businesses. See Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors). 3 Table of Contents The Company's Principal Facilities (1) Country Facility Location Segment Products Australia Oakleigh Fastening Systems Fasteners Canada Georgetown, Ontario (2) Engine Products Aerospace Castings Laval, Qu bec Engine Products; Engineered Structures Aerospace Castings and Machining China Suzhou (2) Engine Products; Fastening Systems; Forged Wheels Fasteners, Rings and Wheels Machining France Dives-sur-Mer Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Evron Engine Products Aerospace and Specialty Castings Gennevilliers Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings St. Cosme-en-Vairais (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Toulouse Fastening Systems Fasteners Us-par-Vigny Fastening Systems Fasteners Germany Bestwig Engine Products Aerospace Castings Erwitte Engine Products Machining of Aerospace Castings Hildesheim-Bavenstedt (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Kelkheim (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Hungary Nemesv mos Fastening Systems Fasteners Sz kesfeh rv r Engine Products; Forged Wheels Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Forgings Japan J etsu City (2) Forged Wheels Wheels Machining Nomi Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Mexico Ciudad Acu a (2) Engine Products; Fastening Systems Aerospace Castings/Rings and Fasteners Monterrey Forged Wheels Forgings Morocco Casablanca (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners United Kingdom Ecclesfield Engine Products Metal, Billets Exeter (2) Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Alloy Glossop Engine Products Metal, Billets Ickles Engine Products Metal, Billets Leicester (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Redditch (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Telford Fastening Systems Fasteners Welwyn Garden City Engineered Structures Aerospace Formed Parts 4 Table of Contents Country Facility Location Segment Products United States Tucson, AZ (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Carson, CA (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners City of Industry, CA (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Fontana, CA Engine Products Rings Fullerton, CA (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Rancho Cucamonga, CA Engine Products Rings Torrance, CA Fastening Systems Fasteners Branford, CT Engine Products Aerospace Coatings Winsted, CT Engine Products Aerospace Machining Savannah, GA Engineered Structures Forgings, Disks La Porte, IN Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Whitehall, MI Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Coatings, Titanium Alloy and Specialty Products Washington, MO Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products Big Lake, MN Engineered Structures Aerospace Machining New Brighton, MN Engineered Structures Aerospace Machining Dover, NJ Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Alloy Kingston, NY (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Rochester, NY Engine Products Rings Barberton, OH Forged Wheels Wheels Machining Canton, OH (2) Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products Cleveland, OH Engine Products; Engineered Structures; Forged Wheels Forgings, Investment Casting Equipment, and Aerospace Components Niles, OH Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products Morristown, TN (2) Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Ceramic Products Houston, TX (2) Engineered Structures Extrusions Waco, TX (2) Fastening Systems Fasteners Wichita Falls, TX Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Hampton, VA (2) Engine Products Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings Martinsville, VA Engineered Structures Titanium Mill Products (1) Principal facilities are listed by location, with certain locations having more than one facility. The list in the above table does not include 18 locations that serve as sales and administrative offices, distribution centers or warehouses. (2) Leased property or partially leased property. 5 Table of Contents Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Important raw materials purchased in 2023 for each of the Company s reportable segments are listed below. Engine Products Fastening Systems Engineered Structures Forged Wheels Ceramics Aluminum Alloys Energy Energy Cobalt Energy Nickel Alloys Primary and Scrap Aluminum Energy Nickel Alloys and Stainless Steels Primary Aluminum Nickel Steels Titanium Scrap Platinum Titanium Alloys Titanium Sponge Titanium Vanadium Alloys Generally, raw materials are purchased from third-party suppliers under competitively priced supply contracts or bidding arrangements. The Company believes that the raw materials necessary to its business are and will continue to be available. Patents, Trade Secrets and Trademarks The Company believes that its domestic and international patent, trade secret and trademark assets provide it with a significant competitive advantage. The Company s rights under its patents, as well as the products made and sold under them, are important to the Company as a whole and, to varying degrees, important to each business segment. The patents owned by Howmet generally concern particular products, manufacturing equipment or techniques. Howmet s business as a whole is not, however, materially dependent on any single patent, trade secret or trademark. As a result of product development and technological advancement, the Company continues to pursue patent protection in jurisdictions throughout the world. As of the end of 2023, the Company s worldwide patent portfolio consists of approximately 940 granted patents and 215 pending patent applications. The Company also has a significant number of trade secrets, mostly regarding manufacturing processes and material compositions that give many of its businesses important advantages in their markets. The Company continues to strive to improve those processes and generate new material compositions that provide additional benefits. With respect to domestic and international registered trademarks, the Company has many that have significant recognition within the markets that are served. Examples include the name Howmet metal castings, Huck fasteners, and Dura-Bright wheels with easy-clean surface treatments. A significant trademark filing campaign for the names Howmet and Howmet Aerospace along with its H logo was initiated in 2019, in support of the corporate launch of Howmet Aerospace Inc. As of the end of 2023, the Company s worldwide trademark portfolio consists of approximately 1,470 registered trademarks and 116 pending trademark applications. The Company s rights under its trademarks are important to the Company as a whole and, to varying degrees, important to each business segment. Competitive Conditions The Company s segments - Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures, and Forged Wheels - are subject to substantial and intense competition in the markets they serve. Although Howmet believes its advanced technology, manufacturing processes and experience provide advantages to Howmet s customers, such as high quality and superior mechanical properties that meet the Company s customers most stringent requirements, many of the products Howmet makes can be produced by competitors using similar types of manufacturing processes as well as alternative forms of manufacturing. Despite intense competition, Howmet continues as a market leader in most of its principal markets. We believe that factors such as Howmet s technological expertise, state-of-the-art capabilities, capacity, quality, engaged employees and long-standing customer relationships enable the Company to maintain its competitive position. Principal competitors include Berkshire Hathaway Inc., through its 2016 acquisition of Precision Castparts Corporation and subsidiaries, for titanium and titanium-based alloys, precision forgings, seamless rolled rings, investment castings, including airfoils, and aerospace fasteners; VSMPO (Russia) for titanium and titanium-based alloys and precision forgings; Allegheny Technologies, Inc. s High-Performance Materials Components segment for titanium and titanium-based alloys and precision forgings; Lisi Aerospace (France) for aerospace fasteners; and Aubert Duval (part of Eramet Group in France) for precision forgings. Other competitors include Doncasters Group Ltd. (U.K.) and Consolidated Precision Products Corp. (owned by Warburg Pincus and Berkshire Partners) for investment castings; Weber Metals (part of Otto Fuchs) for precision forgings; and Forgital and Frisa (Mexico) for seamless rings. Forged Wheels competes against aluminum and steel wheel suppliers in the commercial transportation industry under the product brand name Alcoa Wheels for the major regions that it serves (North America, Europe, Japan, China, South America, and Australia). Its larger aluminum wheel competitors are Accuride Corporation, Speedline (member of the Ronal Group), Nippon Steel Corporation, Dicastal, Alux, and Wheels India Limited. 6 Table of Contents In recent years, Forged Wheels has seen an increase in the number of aluminum wheel suppliers (both forged and cast aluminum wheels) from China, Taiwan, India and South Korea attempting to penetrate the global commercial transportation market. Several of Howmet s largest customers have captive superalloy furnaces for producing airfoil investment castings for their own use. Many other companies around the world also produce superalloy investment castings, and some of these companies currently compete with Howmet in the aerospace and other markets, while others are capable of competing with the Company should they choose to do so. International competition in the investment castings, fasteners, rings and forgings markets may also increase in the future as a result of strategic alliances among engine original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ), aero-structure prime contractors, and overseas companies, especially in developing markets, particularly where offset or local content requirements create purchase obligations with respect to products manufactured in or directed to a particular country. Government Regulations and Environmental Matters Our operations and activities are global and are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those relating to the environment. In 2023, compliance with these laws, rules and regulations did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. Additionally, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in 2024. For a discussion of the risks associated with certain applicable laws and regulations, see Risk Factors. Information relating to environmental matters is included in Note U to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 under the caption Environmental Matters. Human Capital To attract, recruit, develop and retain world-class talent, the Company has created a culture that embraces diversity, drives inclusion, and empowers and engages our employees. Our Code of Conduct describes how we lead with integrity and work with one another while supporting our stakeholders. The Company provides competitive wages, benefits and terms of employment. Attracting and recruiting candidates through workforce planning, increased hiring efficiency and effective onboarding has been a priority for the Company. New technology that increases the automation of job postings enables us to more widely disseminate our job vacancies to diverse partners and job boards, such as our campus recruitment platform that provides an ability to proactively reach a broad talent network of students and schools across the United States. To retain new talent, the Company offers an onboarding program to develop a sense of belonging, teamwork and productivity. In addition to existing training development programs for salaried employees, we extended training access using technology to our hourly employees during 2023. We believe providing employees with avenues to new skills contributes to increased motivation and engagement, resulting in higher employee retention. The Company enables our employees to own their development and create rewarding careers that draw on their aptitudes and support their ambitions. Our development process framework provides tools and resources to identify career options, skills gaps and actions they can take to progress within the Company. Using a human capital management platform, employees can build a professional profile to share their career aspirations and learn new skills. This platform allows us to align employee goals and growth with the Company s future business needs so that we can pinpoint potential successor candidates and build their readiness for their future roles. Our talent review and succession planning process is an ongoing priority and is sponsored and led by our Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) with oversight by the Board of Directors. We use a data-driven approach to track how our employees are progressing through our organization. We seek to identify high performers and support their development into potential future leaders, with a particular focus on providing equitable opportunities to individuals who are members of underrepresented groups. Our Employee Resource Groups, composed of the African Heritage, EurAsian Diversity Inclusion, Latin+, Next Generation, Pride, Veterans, and Women s Networks, continue to be fundamental to building our culture of inclusion. These networks provide colleagues with valuable support and advice, create development opportunities, and provide leadership with feedback that raises awareness of issues and challenges. The Company also provides diversity awareness training and resources. Our Board of Directors and Executive Leadership team review diversity, equity and inclusion activity on a regular basis. Howmet s strong health and safety culture empowers our employees and contractors to take personal responsibility for their actions and the safety of their coworkers. This culture is supported by internal policies, standards, rules and procedures that clearly articulate our stringent requirements for working safely in all of our worldwide facilities. The Company embeds annual health and safety goals and objectives into its operating plans to progress against our ultimate goal of zero incidents. We prioritize our risk management processes toward the prevention of fatality and serious injury. 7 Table of Contents Employees Total worldwide employment at the end of 2023 was approximately 23,200 employees in 23 countries. Approximately 3,400 employees, or 25% of the U.S. workforce, are represented by labor unions in the United States. Within the United States, there are eight collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates between Howmet and various labor unions. Of these eight, the largest workforce covered under a collective bargaining agreement is between Howmet and the United Autow