ITEM 1 Business 2 ITEM 1A Risk Factors 18 ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 27 ITEM 2 Properties 28 ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Matters 29 ITEM 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II ITEM 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 ITEM 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 32 ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 52 ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 97 ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures 97 ITEM 9B Other Information 99 PART III ITEM 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 99 ITEM 11 Executive Compensation 99 ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 99 ITEM 13 Transactions with Related Persons, Promoters and Certain Control Persons 99 ITEM 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 99 PART IV ITEM 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 101 ITEMS 15 (a)(1) and 15 (a)(2) Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule 102 ITEM 16 10-K Summary 102 SIGNATURES i Table of Contents CAUTION ARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD - LOOKING STATEMENTS We have included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K and from time to time our management may make statements that may constitute forward - looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward - looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things and may also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal proceedings, as set forth under Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Matters in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, included in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward - looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward - looking statements include, among others, those discussed below and under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, expressed or implied, in these forward - looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic conditions in the markets where we operate; increased industry competition and downward pressures on electronic brokerage commissions and on bid/offer spreads in the remaining market making business we operate; risks inherent to the electronic brokerage and market making businesses; implied versus actual price volatility levels of the products in which we continue to make markets; the general level of interest rates; failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; system failures, cyber security threats and other disruptions; non - performance of third - party vendors; conflicts of interest and other risks due to our ownership and holding company structure; the loss of key executives and failure to recruit and retain qualified personnel; the risks associated with the expansion of our business; our possible inability to integrate any businesses we acquire; the impact of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted; compliance with laws and regulations, including those relating to the securities industry; the impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) pandemic and the measures implemented to contain the spread of the virus; and other factors discussed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward - looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BU SINESS Overview Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. ( IBG, Inc. or the Company ) is an automated global electronic broker. We custody and service accounts for hedge and mutual funds, exchange-traded funds ( ETFs ), registered investment advisors, proprietary trading groups, introducing brokers and individual investors. We specialize in routing orders while striving to achieve best executions and processing trades in stocks, options, futures, foreign exchange instruments ( forex ), bonds, mutual funds, ETFs, metals and cryptocurrencies on more than 150 electronic exchanges and market centers around the world. In the United States of America ( U.S. ), we conduct our business primarily from our headquarters in Greenwich, Connecticut and from Chicago, Illinois. Abroad, we conduct our business through offices located in Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Hungary, India, China (Hong Kong and Shanghai), Japan, Singapore and Australia . As of December 31, 2021, we had 2,571 employees worldwide. IBG, Inc. is a holding company whose primary asset is the ownership of approximately 23.5% of the membership interests of IBG LLC, the current holding company for our businesses. IBG, Inc. is the sole managing member of IBG LLC. When we use the terms we, us, and our, we mean IBG, Inc. and its subsidiaries (including IBG LLC). Unless otherwise indicated, the terms common stock and IBKR shares refer to the Class A common stock of IBG, Inc. We are a successor to the market making business founded by our Chairman, Mr. Thomas Peterffy, on the floor of the American Stock Exchange in 1977. Since our inception, we have focused on developing proprietary software to automate broker - dealer functions. We have been a pioneer in developing and applying technology as a financial intermediary to increase liquidity and transparency in the capital markets in which we operate. The proliferation of electronic exchanges and market centers since the early 1990s has allowed us to integrate our software with an increasing number of trading venues, creating one automatically functioning, computerized platform that requires minimal human intervention. Over four decades of developing our automated trading platforms and automating many middle and back office functions have allowed us to become one of the lowest cost providers of broker - dealer services and to significantly increase the volume of trades we handle. Our internet address is www.interactivebrokers.com and the investor relations section of our website is located at www.interactivebrokers.com/ir. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of our website, this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 - Q, Current Reports on Form 8 - K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, registration statements, prospectus supplements and Section 16 filings for our directors and officers, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The SEC maintains an internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings are made available to the public on the SEC s internet site. In addition, posted on our website are our Bylaws, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our board of directors, our Accounting Matters Complaint Policy, our Whistle Blower Hotline, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. Within the time periods required by SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC s Global Select Market ( Nasdaq ), we will post on our website any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive officer, director or senior financial officer. In addition, our website includes information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to certain non - GAAP financial measures, if any, (as defined in Regulation G) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means from time to time. Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at Interactive Brokers Group, Inc., Two Pickwick Plaza, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830, Attn: Investor Relations, e - mail: investor - relations@interactivebrokers.com. 2 Table of Contents Our Organizational Structure and Overview of Recapitalization Transactions The graphic below illustrates our current ownership structure and reflects current ownership percentages. The graphic below does not display the subsidiaries of IBG LLC. Our primary assets are our ownership of approximately 23.5% of the membership interests of IBG LLC, the current holding company for our businesses, and our controlling interest and related contractual rights as the sole managing member of IBG LLC. The remaining approximately 76.5% of IBG LLC membership interests are held by IBG Holdings LLC ( Holdings ), a holding company that is owned directly and indirectly by our founder and Chairman, Mr. Thomas Peterffy and his affiliates, management and other employees of IBG LLC, and certain other members. The IBG LLC membership interests held by Holdings will be subject to purchase by us over time in connection with offerings by us of shares of our common stock. The table below presents the amount of IBG LLC membership interests held by IBG, Inc. and Holdings as of December 31, 2021. IBG, Inc. Holdings Total Ownership % 23.5% 76.5% 100.0% Membership interests 98,230,127 319,880,492 418,110,619 3 Table of Contents Purchases of IBG LLC membership interests, held by Holdings, by the Company are governed by the exchange agreement among us, IBG LLC, Holdings and the historical members of IBG LLC, (the Exchange Agreement ), a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10 - Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and filed with the SEC on November 9, 2009. The Exchange Agreement, as amended June 6, 2012, provides that the Company may facilitate the redemption by Holdings of interests held by its members through the issuance of shares of common stock through a public offering in exchange for the interests in IBG LLC being redeemed by Holdings. Periodically since June 2011, with the consent of Holdings and the Company (on its own behalf and acting as the sole managing member of IBG LLC), IBG LLC has agreed to redeem certain membership interests from Holdings through the sale of common stock and to distribute the proceeds of such sale to the beneficial owners of such membership interests. From 2011 through 2021, the Company issued 34,207,307 shares of common stock (with a fair value of $1,491 million) to Holdings in exchange for an equivalent number of shares of member interests in IBG LLC. Nature of Operations As an electronic broker, we execute, clear and settle trades globally for both institutional and individual customers. Capitalizing on our proprietary technology, our systems provide our customers with the capability to monitor multiple markets around the world simultaneously and to execute trades electronically in these markets at a low cost in multiple products and currencies from a single trading account. We offer our customers access to all classes of tradable, primarily exchange - listed products, including stocks, options, futures, forex, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs, metals and cryptocurrencies traded on more than 150 electronic exchanges and market centers in 33 countries and in 25 currencies seamlessly around the world. The ever-growing complexity of multiple market centers has provided us with opportunities to build and continuously adapt our order routing software to secure excellent execution prices. Since the launching of our electronic brokerage business in 1993, we have grown to approximately 1.68 million institutional and individual brokerage customers. We provide our customers with what we believe to be one of the most effective and efficient electronic brokerage platforms in the industry. We are able to provide our customers with high - speed trade execution at low commission rates, in large part because of our proprietary technology. As a result of our advanced electronic brokerage platform, we attract sophisticated and active investors. No single customer represented more than 1.5% of our commissions in 2021. Our key product offerings include: IBKR Pro SM is the core IBKR service designed for sophisticated investors. IBKR Pro SM offers the lowest cost access to stocks, options, futures, forex, bonds, mutual funds, ETFs, metals and cryptocurrencies from a single integrated platform with no added spreads, ticket charges, account minimums or platform fees . IBKR Lite SM provides unlimited commission-free trades on U.S. exchange-listed stocks and ETFs as well as low-cost access to global markets without required account minimums or platform fees to participating U.S. customers. IBKR Lite SM was designed to meet the needs of investors who are seeking a simple, commission-free way to trade U.S. exchange-listed stocks and ETFs and do not wish to consider our efforts to obtain greater price improvement through our IB SmartRouting SM system . IBKR Integrated Investment Account From a single point of entry in one IBKR Integrated Investment Account our customers are able to transact in 25 currencies, across multiple classes of tradable, primarily exchange - listed products traded on more than 150 electronic exchanges and market centers in 33 countries around the world seamlessly. Our offering features a suite of cash management services, including: Interactive Brokers Debit Mastercard and Interactive Brokers Canada Prepaid Mastercard Card Interactive Brokers Debit Mastercard and Interactive Brokers Canada Prepaid Mastercard Card allow customers to spend and borrow directly against their account at lower interest rates than credit cards, personal loans and home equity lines of credit, with no monthly minimum payments and no late fees. Customers can use their card to make purchases and ATM withdrawals anywhere Debit Mastercard 1 or Prepaid Mastercard 1 is accepted around the world. Bill Pay Our Bill Pay program allows customers to make electronic or check payments to almost any company or individual in the U.S. The service can be configured for one-time or recurring payments and permits customers to schedule future payments. __________________________ 1 Debit Mastercard and Prepaid Mastercard are trademarks registered to Mastercard International Incorporated Corporation, Delaware, 2000 Purchase Street, Purchase, New York 10577-2405. 4 Table of Contents Direct Deposit and Mobile Check Deposit Our Direct Deposit program allows customers to automatically deposit paychecks, pension distributions and other recurring payments to their (non-retirement) brokerage account with us. In addition, U.S. customers can use our Mobile Check Deposit to directly deposit checks drawn on a U.S. bank. Request for Payment Service Through this new banking service, U.S. customers can make instant deposits, 24 hours a day, from their mobile banking app or other bank portal to fund their brokerage account with us. Funds deposited via Request for Payment are immediately available for trading. The service is available to customers with an account at J.P. Morgan Chase and, over time, other banks will be added. Insured Bank Deposit Sweep Program Our Insured Bank Deposit Sweep Program provides eligible customers with up to $2,500,000 of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insurance on their eligible cash balances in addition to the existing $250,000 Securities Investor Protection Corporation ( SIPC ) coverage for total coverage of $2,750,000. Customers continue earning the same competitive interest rates currently applied to cash held in their brokerage accounts with us. We sweep each participating customer s eligible cash balances daily to one or more banks, up to $246,500 per bank, allowing for the accrual of interest and keeping within the FDIC protected threshold. Cash balances above $2,750,000 remain subject to safeguarding under the SEC s Customer Protection Rule 15c3-3. Investors Marketplace SM The Investors Marketplace SM is an expansion of our Money Manager Marketplace and our Hedge Fund Capital Introduction program. This program is the first electronic meeting place that brings together individual investors, financial advisors, money managers, fund managers, research analysts, technology providers, business developers and administrators, allowing them to interact to form connections and conduct business. Mutual Fund Marketplace The Mutual Fund Marketplace offers our customers access to more than 45,000 mutual funds worldwide, including more than 17,000 no-transaction-fee funds from over 480 fund families . Bond Marketplace The Bond Marketplace allows customers to search for the best yields from a vast universe of bonds from issuers in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We provide direct market access at a low cost to a wide array of corporate, government and municipal securities. Our customers obtain competitive bids and offers with low, transparent commissions and no hidden mark-ups. Fractional Trading Fractional Trading allows customers to buy and sell using either a specified cash amount or fractional shares, which are stock units that amount to less than one full share. This functionality allows customers to purchase as little as $1.00 of almost any U.S. stock, experiment with trading and investing without committing substantial sums of money, and learn about building and rebalancing diversified portfolios. Cryptocurrency Customers, including both individuals and advisors, can trade Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), Litecoin (LTC) and Bitcoin Cash (BCH) through Paxos Trust Company, alongside other asset classes on a single integrated platform. U.S. Spot Gold Customers can trade U.S. Spot Gold alongside other asset classes from a single integrated account. In addition, our customers have access to efficient pricing in quantities as small as one ounce and can request physical delivery of their U.S. Spot Gold position. No Transaction Fee Program for Exchange - Traded Funds We offer a fee waived no transaction fee program for ETFs that reimburses IBKR Pro SM customers and eligible non-U.S. customers for commissions paid on ETF shares held for at least 30 days. For all customers, our platform offers: Low Costs We provide our customers with among the industry s lowest overall transaction costs in two ways. First, we offer among the lowest execution, commission and financing costs in the industry. Second, our IBKR Pro SM customers benefit from our advanced routing of orders designed to achieve the best available trade price. IB SmartRouting SM IB SmartRouting SM retains control of the customer s order, continuously searches for the best available price and, unlike most other routers, dynamically routes and re - routes all or parts of a customer s order to achieve optimal execution and among the lowest execution and commission costs in the industry. To highlight the quality of our price executions, we publish on our website independent measurements performed by a third-party provider of transaction analysis to illustrate our net price improvement for commissionable trades versus the industry. We also offer Transaction Cost Analysis reporting to allow customers to track execution performance using multiple criteria. Our IBKR Pro SM customers benefit from our advanced order routing technology for all trades, while our IBKR Lite SM customers benefit from this technology for their trades in products not eligible for IBKR Lite SM . 5 Table of Contents Automated Risk Controls Throughout the trading day, we calculate margin requirements for each of our customers on a real - time basis across all product classes and across all currencies. Our customers are alerted to approaching margin violations and if a customer s equity falls below what is required to support that customer s margin, we attempt to automatically liquidate positions on a real - time basis to bring the customer s account into margin compliance. This is done to protect us, as well as the customer, from excessive losses. Flexible and Customizable System Our platform is designed to provide an efficient customer experience, beginning with a highly automated account opening process and ending with fast trade execution and reporting. Our sophisticated interface provides interactive real - time views of account balances, positions, profits or losses, buying power and what - if scenarios to enable our customers to more easily make informed investment decisions and trade effectively. Our system is configured to remember the user s preferences and is specifically designed for multi - screen systems. When away from their main workstations, customers can access their accounts through our IBKR Mobile platforms for a seamless experience. Securities Financing Services We offer a suite of automated Stock Borrow and Lending tools, including our depth of availability, transparent rates, global reach and dedicated service representatives. Our Stock Yield Enhancement Program allows our customers to lend their fully - paid stock shares to us in exchange for cash or U.S. Treasury securities collateral. In turn, we lend these stocks in exchange for collateral and earn stock lending fees. We pay our customers interest on the collateral value generally equal to 50% of the income we earn from lending the shares. This allows customers holding fully - paid long stock positions to enhance their returns. Block Trade Desk We offer broker - assisted trading through our Corporate Bond and Stock and Option block order desks. The desks help traders execute large or complex orders and monitor trades when customers are unable to do so. The desks source liquidity, bring SPX color from the pit, offer price discovery services, and help customers calibrate and execute complex algo trading strategies. IBKR Campus IBKR Campus helps customers learn about the markets, products, and tools available through our platforms. IBKR Campus offers self-directed courses at the Traders Academy, live and recorded webinars, our Traders Insight market commentary blog, the IBKR Quant Blog, and our Student Trading Lab, which lets educators bring real-world trading experiences to their classroom. In addition, we provide content to Coursera, an online provider of learning content, for a certificate program called Practical Guide to Trading . Promotional offerings include: IBKR Refer a Friend Program Under the Refer a Friend program, we encourage existing customers to refer friends and family to IBKR. The referring customer can earn a flat fee payment of $200 while the new customer can receive up to $1,000 in IBKR stock. The specific program details and eligibility requirements are described on our website . Analytical offerings on our platform include: IBKR GlobalAnalyst SM Our IBKR GlobalAnalyst SM tool, designed for investors who are interested in international portfolio diversification, helps find new opportunities to diversify an investor s portfolio and discover undervalued companies that may have greater growth potential. The relative value of global stocks by region, country, industry or individually can be compared, and metrics displayed in one of 27 currencies. IBKR GlobalAnalyst SM can search across business sectors and allows for filtering by region, country and market capitalization. PortfolioAnalyst Our PortfolioAnalyst reporting tool is designed to allow customers to evaluate the performance of their complete financial portfolio. The tool consolidates data from a customer s investment, checking, savings, annuity, incentive plans and credit card accounts, calculates GIPS verified time-weighted and money-weighted returns, and offers robust reporting and benchmarking capabilities. IB Risk Navigator SM We offer to all customers our real - time market risk management platform that unifies exposure across multiple asset classes around the globe. The system can identify overexposure to risk by starting at the portfolio level and drilling down into successively greater detail within multiple report views. Report data is updated every ten seconds or upon changes to portfolio composition. Predefined reports allow the summarization of a portfolio from different risk perspectives, providing views of Exposure, Value at Risk ( VaR ), Delta, Gamma, Vega and Theta, profit and loss, and position quantity measures. The system also offers customers the ability to modify positions through what - if scenarios that show hypothetical changes to the risk profile. Mutual Fund/ETF Parser The Parser categorizes the individual component stocks within mutual funds and ETFs, giving an accurate, granular picture of the overall exposure to asset classes, industry sectors and companies. 6 Table of Contents Portfolio Builder Portfolio Builder supports our customers in setting up an investment strategy based on research and rankings from top buy-side providers and fundamental data; use filters to define the universe of equities that will comprise their strategy and back-test their strategy using up to three years of historical performance; work in hypothetical mode to adjust the strategy until the historical performance meets their standards; and with the click of a button let the system create the orders to invest in a strategy and track its performance in their portfolio. Environmental, Social and Governance ( ESG ) Tools IMPACT by Interactive Brokers SM IMPACT by Interactive Brokers SM ( IMPACT App ) is a unique, simple and intuitive mobile app that helps customers easily align their portfolio with their values, with a goal to help shape the future they wish to see. The IMPACT App allows customers to select their personal investment criteria from thirteen impact values and principles: Clean Air, Pure Water, Ocean Life, Land Health, Consumer Safety, Ethical Leadership, Gender Equality, Racial Equality, LGBTQ Inclusion, Company Transparency, Sustainable Product Lifecycle, Mindful Business Models and Fair Labor Thriving Communities. Customers can also exclude investments based on business practices they would like to avoid. Based on these preferences, the IMPACT App will show customers how investment opportunities and their portfolio align with their beliefs . Impact Dashboard The Impact Dashboard helps customers to evaluate and invest in companies that align with their values. Customers can select the values they care about from a list ranging from clean air to consumer safety and racial equality, and measure how both individual securities and their overall portfolio measure up against their criteria. ESG Scores ESG Scores from Refinitiv give customers a new set of tools for making investment decisions based on more than just financial factors. Companies are scored along several dimensions, such as reducing emissions and supporting human rights, and customers can easily see how companies rank both overall and on each dimension. Charitable Giving IBKR GIVE SM supports U.S. customers in making charitable donations directly from the IMPACT App. Using a comprehensive directory of U.S. charities and non-profit organizations from GuideStar TM by Candid, IBKR GIVE SM lets customers easily donate to a charity matching their values, or search for a non-profit of their choice . Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) Portfolios Interactive Advisors offers to customers a selection of thirteen value portfolios grouped into Better Planet, Social Justice and Responsible Management categories. Interactive Advisors also offers an additional four portfolios grouped under the Smart Beta ESG category. Customers can also customize any of their portfolios to exclude companies whose business practices concerns them. Interactive Analytics SM and IB Option Analytics SM We offer our customers state - of - the - art tools, which include a customizable trading platform, advanced analytic tools and over 100 sophisticated order types and algorithms. We also provide a real - time option analytics window which displays values that reflect the rate of change of an option s price with respect to a unit change in each of several risk dimensions. Probability Lab (Patent Pending) The Probability Lab provides customers with an intuitive, visual method to analyze ma