ITEM 1 Business 2 ITEM 1A Risk Factors 17 ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 25 ITEM 2 Properties 26 ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Matters 27 ITEM 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 28 PART II ITEM 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 ITEM 6 Selected Financial Data 31 ITEM 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 57 ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 62 ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures 107 ITEM 9B Other Information 109 PART III ITEM 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 109 ITEM 11 Executive Compensation 109 ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 109 ITEM 13 Transactions with Related Persons, Promoters and Certain Control Persons 109 ITEM 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 109 PART IV ITEM 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 111 ITEMS 15 (a)(1) and 15 (a)(2) Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule 112 ITEM 16 10-K Summary 112 SIGNATURES i Table of Contents CAUTION ARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD - LOOKING STATEMENTS We have included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, and from time to time our management may make statements that may constitute forward - looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward - looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal proceedings, as set forth under Legal Proceedings and Regulatory Matters in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, included in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward - looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward - looking statements include, among others, those discussed below and under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, expressed or implied, in these forward - looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: general economic conditions in the markets where we operate; increased industry competition and downward pressures on electronic brokerage commissions and on bid/offer spreads in the remaining market making business we operate; risks inherent to the electronic brokerage and market making businesses; implied versus actual price volatility levels of the products in which we continue to make markets; the general level of interest rates; failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in our proprietary technology; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; system failures, cyber security threats and other disruptions; non - performance of third - party vendors; conflicts of interest and other risks due to our ownership and holding company structure; the loss of key executives and failure to recruit and retain qualified personnel; the risks associated with the expansion of our business; our possible inability to integrate any businesses we acquire; the impact of accounting standards issued but not yet adopted; compliance with laws and regulations, including those relating to the securities industry; and other factors discussed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward - looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BU SINESS Overview Interactive Brokers Group, Inc. ( IBG, Inc. or the Company ) is an automated global electronic broker and market maker (although, we have substantially exited the options market making business - see Note 2 - Discontinued Operations and Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities to the audited consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). We custody and service accounts for hedge and mutual funds, registered investment advisors, proprietary trading groups, introducing brokers and individual investors. We specialize in routing orders while striving to achieve best executions and processing trades in stocks, options, futures, foreign exchange instruments ( forex ), bonds, mutual funds and exchange traded funds ( ETFs ) on more than 135 electronic exchanges and market centers around the world. In the United States of America ( U.S. ), we conduct our business primarily from our headquarters in Greenwich, Connecticut, and from Chicago, Illinois. Abroad, we conduct our business through offices located in Canada, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Switzerland, India, China (Hong Kong and Shanghai), Japan, and Australia . As of December 31, 2019, we had 1,643 employees worldwide. IBG, Inc. is a holding company whose primary asset is the ownership of approximately 18.5% of the membership interests of IBG LLC (the Group ), the current holding company for our businesses. IBG, Inc. is the sole managing member of IBG LLC. When we use the terms we, us, and our, we mean IBG, Inc. and its subsidiaries (including IBG LLC). Unless otherwise indicated, the terms common stock and IBKR shares refer to the Class A common stock of IBG, Inc. We are a successor to the market making business founded by our Chairman, Mr. Thomas Peterffy, on the floor of the American Stock Exchange in 1977. Since our inception, we have focused on developing proprietary software to automate broker - dealer functions. During that time, we have been a pioneer in developing and applying technology as a financial intermediary to increase liquidity and transparency in the capital markets in which we operate. The proliferation of electronic exchanges since the early 1990s has provided us with the opportunity to integrate our software with an increasing number of exchanges and market centers to create one automatically functioning, computerized platform that requires minimal human intervention. Over four decades of developing our automated trading platforms and our automation of many middle and back office functions have allowed us to become one of the lowest cost providers of broker - dealer services and significantly increase the volume of trades we handle. Our activities are divided into two principal business segments: electronic brokerage and market making (being discontinued). For a description of these segments and the products and services they provide, refer to Business Segments below in this Item 1. Our internet address is www.interactivebrokers.com and the investor relations section of our website is located at www.interactivebrokers.com/ir. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of our website, this Annual Report on Form 10 - K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 - Q, Current Reports on Form 8 - K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, registration statements, prospectus supplements, and Section 16 filings for our directors and officers, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). The SEC maintains an internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings are made available to the public on the SEC s internet site. In addition, posted on our website are our Bylaws, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our board of directors, our Accounting Matters Complaint Policy, our Whistle Blower Hotline, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. Within the time periods required by SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ( Nasdaq ), we will post on our website any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive officer, director or senior financial officer. In addition, our website includes information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to certain non - GAAP financial measures, if any, (as defined in Regulation G) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means from time to time. Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at Interactive Brokers Group, Inc., Two Pickwick Plaza, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: 203 - 618 - 4070, e - mail: investor - relations@interactivebrokers.com. 2 Table of Contents Our Organizational Structure and Overview of Recapitalization Transactions The graphic below illustrates our current ownership structure and reflects current ownership percentages. The graphic below does not display the subsidiaries of IBG LLC. ___________________________ (1) In connection with redemption transactions in 2018, as of December 31, 2019, IBG Holdings LLC held for sale for the benefit of certain of its members 869,135 shares of IBG, Inc. Class A common stock, representing an additional 0.21% of the voting interests in IBG, Inc. Our primary assets are our ownership of approximately 18.5% of the membership interests of IBG LLC, the current holding company for our businesses, and our controlling interest and related contractual rights as the sole managing member of IBG LLC. The remaining approximately 81.5% of IBG LLC membership interests are held by IBG Holdings LLC ( Holdings ), a holding company that is owned directly and indirectly by our founder and Chairman, Mr. Thomas Peterffy and his affiliates, management and other employees of IBG LLC, and certain other members. The IBG LLC membership interests held by Holdings will be subject to purchase by us over time in connection with offerings by us of shares of our common stock. 3 Table of Contents The table below presents the amount of IBG LLC membership interests held by IBG, Inc. and Holdings as of December 31, 2019. IBG, Inc. Holdings Total Ownership % 18.5% 81.5% 100.0% Membership interests 76,759,595 338,670,642 415,430,237 Purchases of IBG LLC membership interests, held by Holdings, by the Company are governed by the exchange agreement among us, IBG LLC, Holdings and the historical members of IBG LLC, (the Exchange Agreement ), a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Quarterly Report on Form 10 - Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and filed with the SEC on November 9, 2009. The Exchange Agreement, as amended June 6, 2012, provides that the Company may facilitate the redemption by Holdings of interests held by its members through the issuance of shares of common stock through a public offering in exchange for the interests in IBG LLC being redeemed by Holdings. Periodically since June 2011, with the consent of Holdings and the Company (on its own behalf and acting as the sole managing member of IBG LLC), IBG LLC has agreed to redeem certain membership interests from Holdings through the sale of common stock and to distribute the proceeds of such sale to the beneficial owners of such membership interests. From 2011 through 2019, the Company issued 15,417,157 shares of common stock (with a fair value of $506 million) to Holdings in exchange for an equivalent number of shares of member interests in IBG LLC. Business Segments Electronic Brokerage Electronic brokerage represented 97% of net revenues and 98% of income before income taxes from electronic brokerage and market making combined during 2019. As an electronic broker, we execute, clear and settle trades globally for both institutional and individual customers. Capitalizing on our proprietary technology originally developed for our market making business, our systems provide our customers with the capability to monitor multiple markets around the world simultaneously and to execute trades electronically in these markets at a low cost in multiple products and currencies from a single trading account. Since launching this business in 1993, we have grown to approximately 690 thousand institutional and individual brokerage customers. We provide our customers with what we believe to be one of the most effective and efficient electronic brokerage platforms in the industry, which includes advanced order management, trade execution and portfolio management. Our brokerage system features unique architectural aspects that may impose a significant barrier to entry for firms wishing to compete in this business and permit us to compete favorably against our competitors. We are able to provide our customers with high - speed trade execution at low commission rates, in large part because of our proprietary technology. As a result of our advanced electronic brokerage platform, we attract sophisticated and active investors. No single customer represented more than 1% of our commissions in 2019. Our key product offerings include: IBKR Pro SM is the traditional IBKR service designed for sophisticated investors. IBKR Pro SM offers the lowest cost access to stocks, options, futures, forex, bonds, mutual funds and ETFs on over 135 electronic exchanges and market centers in 33 countries. IBKR Lite SM is a new offering that provides unlimited commission-free trades on U.S. exchange-listed stocks and ETFs as well as low cost access to global markets without required account minimums or inactivity fees to participating U.S. customers. IBKR Lite SM was designed to meet the needs of investors who are seeking a simple, commission-free way to trade U.S. exchange-listed stocks and ETFs and do not wish to consider our efforts to obtain greater price improvement through our IB SmartRouting SM system . IBKR Integrated Investment Account - From a single point of entry in one IBKR Integrated Investment Account our customers are able to transact in 25 currencies, across multiple classes of tradable, primarily exchange - listed products traded on more than 135 electronic exchanges and market centers in 33 countries around the world seamlessly. Our offering features a suite of cash management services, including: Interactive Brokers Debit Mastercard - Interactive Brokers Debit Mastercard allows customers to spend and borrow directly against their account at lower rates than credit cards, personal loans and home equity lines of credit, with no monthly minimum payments and no late fees. Customers can use their card to make purchases and ATM withdrawals anywhere Debit Mastercard 1 is accepted around the world. ___________________________ 1 Debit Mastercard is a trademark registered to Mastercard International Incorporated Corporation, Delaware, 2000 Purchase Street, Purchase, New York 10577-2405. 4 Table of Contents Bill Pay Our Bill Pay program allows customers to make electronic or check payments to almost any company or individual in the U.S. It can be configured for one-time or recurring payments and permits customers to schedule future payments. Direct Deposit Our Direct Deposit program allows customers to automatically deposit paychecks, pension distributions and other recurring payments to their (non-retirement) brokerage account with us. Insured Bank Deposit Sweep Program - Our Insured Bank Deposit Sweep Program provides eligible customers with up to $2,500,000 of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) insurance on their eligible cash balances in addition to the existing $250,000 Securities Investor Protection Corporation ( SIPC ) coverage for total coverage of $2,750,000. Customers continue earning the same competitive interest rates currently applied to cash held in their brokerage accounts with us. We sweep each participating customer s eligible cash balances daily to one or more banks, up to $246,500 per bank, allowing for the accrual of interest and keeping within the FDIC protected threshold. Cash balances above $2,750,000 remain subject to safeguarding under the SEC s Customer Protection Rule 15c3-3. Investors Marketplace SM - The Investors Marketplace SM is an expansion of our Money Manager Marketplace and our Hedge Fund Capital Introduction program. This program is the first electronic meeting place that brings together individual investors, financial advisors, money managers, fund managers, research analysts, technology providers, business developers and administrators, allowing them to interact to form connections and conduct business. Fractional Trading Fractional Trading allows customers to buy and sell using a cash quantity or fractional shares, which are stock units that amount to less than one full share. This new functionality allows customers to purchase as little as $1 of almost any U.S. stock, experiment with trading and investing without committing substantial sums of money, and learn about building and rebalancing diversified portfolios. For all customers, our platform offers: Low Costs - We provide our customers with among the industry s lowest overall transaction costs in two ways. First, we offer among the lowest execution, commission and financing costs in the industry. Second, our IBKR Pro SM customers benefit from our advanced routing of orders designed to achieve the best available trade price. IB SmartRouting SM IB SmartRouting SM retains control of the customer s order, continuously searches for the best available price and, unlike most other routers, dynamically routes and re - routes all or parts of a customer s order to achieve optimal execution and among the lowest execution and commission costs in the industry. To highlight the quality of our price executions, we publish on our website independent measurements performed by a third-party provider of transaction analysis to illustrate our net price improvement for commissionable trades versus the industry. We also offer Transaction Cost Analysis reporting to allow customers to track execution performance using multiple criteria. Our IBKR Pro SM customers benefit from our advanced order routing technology for all trades, while our IBKR Lite SM customers benefit from this technology for their trades in products not eligible for IBKR Lite SM . Automated Risk Controls - Throughout the trading day, we calculate margin requirements for each of our customers on a real - time basis across all product classes and across all currencies. Our customers are alerted to approaching margin violations and if a customer s equity falls below what is required to support that customer s margin, we attempt to automatically liquidate positions on a real - time basis to bring the customer s account into margin compliance. This is done to protect us, as well as the customer, from excessive losses. Flexible and Customizable System - Our platform is designed to provide an efficient customer experience, beginning with a highly automated account opening process and ending with a fast trade execution and reporting. Our sophisticated interface provides interactive real - time views of account balances, positions, profits or losses, buying power and what - if scenarios to enable our customers to more easily make informed investment decisions and trade effectively. Our system is configured to remember the user s preferences and is specifically designed for multi - screen systems. When away from their main workstations, customers are able to access their accounts through our IB WebTrader SM or MobileTrader SM interfaces for a seamless experience. Securities Financing Services - We offer a suite of automated Stock Borrow and Lending tools, including our depth of availability, transparent rates, global reach and dedicated service representatives. Our Stock Yield Enhancement Program allows our customers to lend their fully - paid stock shares to us in exchange for cash collateral. In turn, we lend these stocks in exchange for collateral and earn stock lending fees. We pay our customers a rebate on the cash collateral generally equal to 50% of the income we earn from lending the shares. This allows customers holding fully - paid long stock positions to enhance their returns. 5 Table of Contents Trade Desk - We offer broker - assisted trading through our block trade desk, which is ideal when customers are away from their computer; and through our corporate bond desk, for times when large customer orders need access to more liquidity than is currently available electronically. New promotional offerings this year included: BET, LEARN, WIN Promotion During 2019 we launched our simulated sports betting exchange ( Simulated Exchange ) that operates as a simulated peer-to-peer market where participants can buy, sell and trade simulated bets on real sporting events. As part of the launch, we are offering the first 2.2 million participants who open a Simulated Exchange account $1,000 in virtual currency for trading these contracts. Winnings in Simulated Exchange accounts may be converted, by eligible participants, into up to $100 worth of IBKR shares, on a one-time basis, upon opening of a brokerage account with us. This promotion is intended to teach participants about the probabilistic nature of markets, trading and investing and to introduce new customers to our brokerage platform. The promotion is scheduled to end on December 31, 2020 or when all awards are distributed, whichever occurs first. IBKR Welcome Shares Program We offer Welcome Shares of up to $1,000 in IBKR to friends of our satisfied customers. We invite certain customers to refer their friends to open a new account, and those customers will be eligible to receive $1 worth of IBKR shares (capped at $1,000) for each $100 of net deposits into their account during the first year. Our customers making the referral are not eligible to receive any IBKR shares or other monetary benefit under this program . Analytical offerings on our platform include: IB Risk Navigator SM - We offer free to all customers our real - time market risk management platform that unifies exposure across multiple asset classes around the globe. The system is capable of identifying overexposure to risk by starting at the portfolio level and drilling down into successively greater detail within multiple report views. Report data is updated every ten seconds or upon changes to portfolio composition. Predefined reports allow the summarization of a portfolio from different risk perspectives, and allow views of Exposure, Value at Risk ( VaR ), Delta, Gamma, Vega and Theta, profit and loss and position quantity measures for the different portfolio views. The system also offers the customer the ability to modify positions through what - if scenarios that show hypothetical changes to the risk summary. PortfolioAnalyst Our PortfolioAnalyst reporting tool is designed to allow customers to evaluate the performance of their portfolio by creating and saving reports based on a set of measurement criteria and optionally comparing their data to selected industry benchmarks. Portfolio Builder - Portfolio Builder allows our customers to set up an investment strategy based on research and rankings from top buy-side providers and fundamental data; use filters to define the universe of equities that will comprise their strategy and back-test their strategy using up to three years of historical performance; work in hypothetical mode to adjust the strategy until the historical performance meets their standards; and with the click of a button let the system create the orders to invest in a strategy and track its performance in their portfolio. Mutual Fund/ETF Parser - The Parser categorizes the individual component stocks within mutual funds and ETFs. Customers can get an accurate, granular picture of their overall exposure to asset classes, industry sectors and companies. Interactive Analytics SM and IB Option Analytics SM - We offer our customers state - of - the - art tools, which include a customizable trading platform, advanced analytic tools and over 100 sophisticated order types and algorithms. We also provide a real - time option analytics window which displays values that reflect the rate of change of an option s price with respect to a unit change in each of a number of risk dimensions. Probability Lab (Patent Pending) - The Probability Lab provides customers with an intuitive, visual method to analyze market participants future stock price forecasts based on current option prices. This tool compares a customer s stock price forecast versus that of the market, and scans the entire option universe for the highest Sharpe ratio multi - leg option strategies that take advantage of the customer s forecast. 6 Table of Contents We cater to various customer groups with specific service needs. For advisors, we offer: Greenwich Compliance Greenwich Advisor Compliance Services ( Greenwich Compliance ) offers direct expert registration and start-up compliance services, as well as answers to basic day-to-day compliance questions for experienced investors and traders looking to start their own investment advisor firms. Greenwich Compliance professionals have regulatory and industry experience, and can help investment advisors trading on our brokerage platform meet their registration and compliance needs. Model Portfolios - Model Portfolios offer advisors an efficient and time-saving approach to investing customer assets. They allow advisors to create groupings of financial instruments based on specific investment themes, and then invest customer funds into these models. IBKR Client Risk Profile - IBKR Client Risk Profile is designed to help advisors determine the most suitable investments for their customers, based on each customer s risk tolerance. This information is collected through a custom-designed questionnaire. Advisors can view the scores through the Advisor Portal and create custom pre-trade allocation groups and profiles in TWS to place orders and allocate trades for customers with similar risk profiles. For introducing brokers and advisors, we offer: White Branding - Our large financial advisor and broker - dealer customers may white brand our trading interface, account management and reports with their firm s identity. Broker-dealer customers can also select from among our modular functionalities, such as order routing, trade reporting or clearing, on specific products or exchanges where they may not have up - to - date technology, in order to offer to their customers a complete global range of services and products. For customers looking for online advisory services, we offer: Interactive Advisors (formerly known as IBKR Asset Management) Interactive Advisors recruits registered financial advisors, vets them, analyzes their investment track records, and groups them by their risk profile. Retail investors who are interested in having their individual accounts robo-traded are grouped by their risk and return preferences. Retail investors can assign their accounts to be traded by one or more advisors. Interactive Advisors also offers our customers Smart Beta Portfolios which combine the benefits of actively managed fund stock selection techniques with passive ETFs low cost automation to provide broad market exposure and potentially higher returns, as well as Socially Responsible Investing. Market Making Market making represented 3% of net revenues from electronic brokerage and market making combined during 2019. As previously announced, we transferred our U.S. options market making operations to Two Sigma Securities, LLC effective September 29, 2017 and also exited the majority of our options market making activities outside the U.S. by December 31, 2017. During 2019, we discontinued our market making activities in Canada. We intend to continue conducting certain proprietary trading activities in stocks and related instruments to facilitate our electronic brokerage customers trading in products such as ETFs, ADRs, CFDs and other financial instruments, as well as exchange-traded market making activities in a few select markets outside of the U.S. However, we do not expect the facilitation activity to be of sufficient size as to require reporting as a separate segment in the near future. As a market maker, we provide liquidity by offering competitively tight bid/offer spreads over a 