ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction Intercontinental Exchange, Inc. is a leading global provider of technology and data to a broad range of customers including financial institutions, corporations and government entities. Our products, which span major asset classes including futures, equities, fixed income and U.S. residential mortgages, provide our customers with access to mission critical tools that are designed to increase asset class transparency and workflow efficiency. Although we report our results in three reportable business segments, we operate as one business, leveraging the collective expertise, particularly in data services and technology, that exists across our platforms to inform and enhance our operations. Our segments are as follows: Exchanges: We operate regulated marketplace technology for the listing, trading and clearing of a broad array of derivatives contracts and financial securities as well as data and connectivity services related to those venues. Fixed Income and Data Services: We provide fixed income pricing, reference data, indices, analytics and execution services as well as global credit default swaps, or CDS, clearing and multi-asset class data delivery technology. Mortgage Technology: We provide a technology platform that offers customers comprehensive, digital workflow tools that aim to address inefficiencies and mitigate risks that exist in the U.S. residential mortgage market life cycle, from application through closing, servicing and the secondary market. Our History In 2000, ICE was founded with the idea of transforming energy markets by creating a network that removed barriers and provided greater transparency, efficiency and access. By staying close to our customers, we have expanded into new asset classes and services, while retaining a core mission of reducing friction in markets, bringing efficiency to our customers workflows and, ultimately, connecting our customers to opportunity. Today, we are a Fortune 500 company, providing our customers with an array of technology solutions and data services that span a diverse set of asset classes. 4 Our Business Segments Our business is conducted through three reportable business segments: Exchanges; Fixed Income and Data Services; and Mortgage Technology. The majority of our identifiable assets are located in the U.S. and the U.K. For a summary of our revenues, net assets and net property and equipment by geographic region, see Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Exchanges Segment We operate regulated marketplaces for the listing, trading and clearing of a broad array of derivatives contracts and financial securities, such as commodities, interest rates, foreign exchange and equities as well as corporate and exchange-traded funds, or ETFs. We operate multiple trading venues, including 13 regulated exchanges and six clearing houses, which are strategically positioned in major market centers around the world, including the U.S., U.K., European Union, or EU, Canada, Asia Pacific and the Middle East. Our Exchanges segment includes trading and listings revenue from our global futures network and the New York Stock Exchange and other registered securities exchanges, or collectively, the NYSE, and various data and connectivity services that are directly related to those exchange platforms. Revenues reflect a mix of both diversified transaction revenues and recurring data and listings revenues. Our Exchanges segment generated revenues, less transaction-based expenses of $4.4 billion and accounted for 56% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses in 2023. Our Exchanges business can experience moderate seasonal fluctuations, although such seasonal impacts have been somewhat muted in periods of high volume trading. Key asset classes include: Energy Futures and Options: We offer a range of futures and options products that are designed to enable our customers to manage their risk across global energy markets. Our flagship Brent crude oil contract serves as the cornerstone of a global oil network that today includes over 700 related crude and refined oil products including locational and refined spreads. In addition, as natural gas and Liquefied Natural Gas, or LNG, continue to globalize, we offer one of the broadest footprints of regional and global natural gas benchmarks, which span North America, Europe and Asia. Our leading environmental and power markets round out our diverse global energy network. For over two decades, our environmental markets have provided customers risk management tools to meet carbon cap and trade program requirements and renewable fuel standards. Increasingly, market participants are turning to our global environmental markets to help navigate and manage risk related to climate change, the energy transition and the move to net zero emissions. Agricultural Metals Futures and Options: We offer futures and options on the leading global soft commodity markets including coffee, cocoa, cotton and sugar. Our benchmark contracts offer one of the most globally relevant 5 price markers for these agricultural markets and provide our customers with the tools to manage price and counterparty risk and facilitate price discovery. Financial Futures and Options: We offer a diverse suite of equity futures and options contracts based on our own indices as well as those created by MSCI and FTSE . These contracts range from established global benchmarks, such as the MSCI Emerging Market Index, to newer products, such as MSCI s suite of Environmental, Social and Governance, or ESG, indices and the NYSE FAANG+ Index. Our global interest rate complex spans geographies, currencies and tenors, providing participants around the world with tools to manage risk in a capital efficient manner. Key products include: Euribor, Gilts, Sterling Overnight Index Average, or SONIA, and Secured Overnight Financing Rates, or SOFR, among others. Cash Equities and Equity Options: We offer securities trading services through our five registered securities exchanges, including the NYSE. Our securities exchanges are leading providers of transparent, efficient, and high quality markets for the securities issued by large and small companies, ETFs and equity options. These markets serve issuers, investors and other market participants across five cash equity and two options markets. OTC and Other: Our over-the-counter, or OTC, markets include bilateral energy markets that offer electronic trading of contracts based on physically-settled natural gas, power and refined oil contracts and other trade confirmation services. Our other revenues primarily include interest income on certain clearing margin deposits related to our futures business, regulatory penalties and fines, fees for use of our facilities, regulatory fees charged to member organizations of our U.S. securities exchanges, designated market maker service fees, exchange membership fees and agricultural grading and certification fees. Data and Connectivity Services: Our exchange data services include, among other offerings, proprietary real-time and historical pricing data, as well as order book and transaction information related to our global futures markets and the NYSE exchanges. In addition, we receive a share of revenue from the sale of consolidated U.S. equity and options market data by the National Market System Plans, or NMS Plans. Separately, we also provide connectivity services directly related to our futures, cash equity and options exchanges and clearing houses. Revenues from data and connectivity services fees are largely recurring in nature. Listings: The NYSE has been the venue of choice for innovators, visionaries and leaders for over 230 years. The NYSE offers a unique hybrid market model that combines leading technology with an accountable market maker to provide human judgment, a community of the world s greatest companies and premium brand visibility. With over 70% of S P 500 companies listed on the NYSE as of December 31, 2023, we are a leading listing venue across a range of sectors from technology and healthcare, to financials and energy. In addition to corporate listings, the NYSE is a global leader in ETF listings with 75%, or roughly $6.1 trillion, of ETF assets under management, or AUM, as of December 31, 2023. Additionally, in 2023, NYSE reported 32 listing transfers from competing exchanges, the second-highest total since 2002, bringing $120 billion in new market capitalization to the exchange and also listed two of the year's three largest IPOs. Revenues from listing fees are largely recurring in nature. We operate six clearing houses, each of which acts as a central counterparty, or CCP, that, for its clearing members, becomes the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer. Through this CCP function, our clearing houses provide financial security for each transaction, for the duration of the position, by limiting counterparty credit risk. Our clearing houses are responsible for providing clearing services to each of our futures exchanges, and in some cases, to third-party execution venues. Mechanisms have been created, called guaranty funds, to provide partial protection in the event of a clearing member default. Except for ICE NGX Canada Inc., or ICE NGX, each of the ICE Clearing Houses (as defined below) requires that each clearing member make deposits into a guaranty fund maintained by the relevant ICE Clearing House. In addition, we have contributed $340 million of our own cash to the guaranty funds which is one component of the table below, and such amounts are at risk and could be used in the event of a clearing member default. We also maintain default insurance as an additional layer of clearing member default protection, which is also reflected in the table below. The default insurance was renewed in September 2022 and has a three-year term for the following clearing houses in the following amounts: ICE Clear Europe - $100 million; ICE Clear U.S. - $25 million; and ICE Clear Credit - $75 million. In addition, the table below includes a guaranty fund of $215 million maintained by ICE NGX funded by the following: (1) a $200 million letter of credit issued by a major Canadian chartered bank, and backed by default insurance underwritten by Export Development Canada, a Crown corporation operated at arm s length from the Canadian government, and (2) $15 million, which is included in our total cash contribution of $340 million, held as restricted cash to fund the first loss amount ICE NGX is responsible for under the default insurance policy. 6 Our contributions to each clearing house as of December 31, 2023 are listed below and our clearing houses are referred to herein collectively as the ICE Clearing Houses : Clearing House Products Cleared Location Exchange where Executed Reporting Segment ICE's Contribution ICE Clear Europe Energy, agricultural, interest rates and equity index futures and options contracts U.K. ICE Futures Europe, ICE Futures U.S., ICE Endex, ICE Futures Abu Dhabi and third-party venues Exchanges $297 million ICE Clear U.S. Agricultural, metals, foreign exchange, or FX, interest rate, and equity index futures and/or options contracts U.S. ICE Futures U.S. Exchanges $100 million ICE Clear Credit 1 OTC North American, European, Asian-Pacific and Emerging Market CDS instruments U.S. Creditex and third-party venues Fixed Income and Data Services $125 million ICE Clear Netherlands Derivatives on equities and equity indices traded on regulated markets The Netherlands ICE Endex Exchanges $2 million ICE Clear Singapore Energy, metals and financial futures products Singapore ICE Futures Singapore Exchanges $1 million ICE NGX Physical North American natural gas and electricity Canada ICE NGX Exchanges $215 million 1 Although ICE Clear Credit is included in the Fixed Income and Data Services reporting segment, it is included in the table as a part of our suite of global clearing houses. In 2022, we announced our decision to cease our CDS clearing service at ICE Clear Europe, our clearing house in the U.K. All cleared CDS positions at ICE Clear Europe were successfully closed, with the majority re-established at ICE Clear Credit in October 2023. Moving forward, our sole CDS clearing offering is our ICE Clear Credit clearing house in the U.S. All CDS products have been delisted at ICE Clear Europe and the final regulatory steps for de-registration have been completed as of December 31, 2023. Fixed Income and Data Services Segment Our Fixed Income and Data Services segment includes our fixed income execution, or ICE Bonds, CDS clearing, our fixed income data and analytics offerings, and other multi-asset class data and network services. Our leading fixed income pricing and reference data offerings serve as the foundation for a broader fixed income network that provides our customers solutions that span the full workflow including pre- and post-trade analytics, a range of execution protocols and indices. In addition, our multi-asset class connectivity, feeds and desktop solutions, which comprise our Other Data and Network Services business, leverage a common sales force, which can enhance cross-selling opportunities across the Fixed Income and Data Services segment. The Fixed Income and Data Services segment generated revenues of $2.2 billion in 2023 and accounted for 28% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses. Fixed Income Execution: Alongside our leading Fixed Income Data and Analytics offerings, ICE Bonds is focused on providing tools to improve efficiency in customers' workflows across fixed income markets. ICE Bonds provides customers with electronic markets that support multiple fixed income trading protocols including: click-to-trade, request for quotation, or RFQ, and auctions, including portfolio auctions/trading. CDS Clearing: ICE Clear Credit currently supports Single Names CDS on over 630 reference entities and over 175 Index CDS instruments. Revenues also include interest income on certain clearing margin deposits related to our CDS clearing business. Fixed Income Data and Analytics: We are a leading provider of end-of-day and continuous evaluated pricing services on nearly three million fixed income securities spanning approximately 150 countries and 80 currencies including sovereign, corporate and municipal bonds, mortgage and asset-backed securities as well as leveraged loans. Our reference data offering complements our evaluated pricing by providing our clients a broad range of 7 descriptive information, covering millions of financial instruments that, when coupled with our pricing services, act as the foundation for our leading fixed income index complex, ICE Data Indices, LLC, or ICE Data Indices. We also offer a range of fixed income analytics and other workflow solutions including: best execution services, liquidity indicators, fixed income and derivatives portfolio analytics and our ETF Hub. Our fixed income customers use our data, indices and analytics to inform pre-trade decision making, support post-trade regulatory and compliance needs and improve operational efficiency. In addition, our newer offerings in this area include a variety of ESG data and analytics offerings. Fixed Income Data and Analytics revenues are largely recurring in nature. Other Data and Network Services: We offer a multi-asset class connectivity solution called the ICE Global Network. The ICE Global Network offers highly secure, low latency connectivity solutions to reach over 150 trading venues and over 750 data sources. In addition, our consolidated feeds business provides data from a broad array of trading venues and news feeds through a common application programming interface, or API. Finally, our desktop solutions support commodity and energy traders, risk managers, financial advisors, wealth managers and retail traders, and include a robust instant messaging, or IM, system that protects the privacy of over 120,000 users, while also enabling greater collaboration. Other Data and Network Service revenues are largely recurring in nature. Mortgage Technology Segment Over the last seven years, ICE has constructed a network aimed at identifying and solving the inefficiencies that exist in the U.S. residential mortgage market. From application through closing, servicing and the secondary market, our network is intended to connect the key stakeholders across the mortgage origination workflow and provide our customers with data services and technology that deliver greater transparency and enable significant customer efficiency gains. Our Mortgage Technology segment generated revenues of $1.3 billion in 2023 and accounted for 16% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses. Origination Technology: Our origination technology acts as a system of record for the mortgage transaction, automating the gathering, reviewing, and verifying of mortgage-related information and enabling automated enforcement of rules and business practices designed to help ensure that each completed loan transaction is of high quality and adheres to secondary market standards. These revenues are based on recurring Software as a Service, or SaaS, subscription fees, with an additive transaction-based or success-based pricing fee as lenders exceed the number of loans closed that are included with their monthly base subscription, as well as professional services. In addition, the ICE Mortgage Technology network provides originators connectivity to the mortgage supply chain and facilitates the secure exchange of information between our customers and a broad ecosystem of third-party service providers, as well as lenders and investors that are critical to consummating the millions of loan transactions that occur on our origination network each year. Revenue from the ICE Mortgage Technology network is largely transaction-based. Closing Solutions: Our closing solutions connect key participants, such as lenders, title and settlement agents and individual county recorders, to digitize the closing and recording process. Closing solutions also include revenues from our Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., or MERS, database, which provides a system of record for recording and tracking changes and servicing rights and beneficial ownership interests in loans secured by U.S. residential real estate. Revenues from closing solutions are largely transaction-based and are based on the volume of loan closings. Servicing Software: Our servicing offerings include integrated mortgage servicing solutions, which help automate all areas of the servicing process, from loan boarding to final payment or default, to help lower costs, reduce risk and improve financial performance. Our servicing solutions support first lien mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit on a single platform to manage all servicing processes, including loan setup and maintenance, escrow administration, investor reporting, and regulatory requirements. We also provide solutions that provide consumers with access to customized, timely information about their mortgages and allow our clients customer service representatives to access the same customer information, which is key to increasing borrower retention. Another servicing solution provides clients, third-party providers and their developers access to our growing catalog of APIs across the mortgage life cycle. Our default servicing solutions help simplify the complex process for loans that move into default, while supporting servicers with their compliance requirements and to facilitate more efficient loss mitigation processes. We also offer advanced technology to support the bankruptcy and foreclosure process, and more efficiently manage claims related to properties in foreclosure, as well as tools to support loss analysis, to help servicers make the right decisions at the right time. 8 Data and Analytics: Our data and analytics offerings include those related to ICE Mortgage Technology s Data Document Automation, or DDA, Mortgage Analyzer solutions, or Analyzer (formerly known as AIQ), which offers customers greater efficiency by streamlining data collection and validation through our automated document recognition and data extraction capabilities. Analyzer revenues can be both recurring and transaction-based in nature. In addition, our data offerings include near real-time industry and peer benchmarking tools, which provide originators a granular view into the real-time trends in nearly half of the U.S. residential mortgage market. We also provide a Data as a Service, or DaaS, for lenders and industry participants to access industry data and origination information. The data and insights from these solutions inform, support and enhance our other solutions to help lenders and servicers make more informed decisions, improve performance, identify and predict risk and generate more qualified leads. Revenues related to our data products are largely subscription based and recurring in nature. Our data and analytics offerings include property ownership data, lien data, servicing data, automated valuation models and collateral risk scores, among others, provided to clients in the mortgage, real estate and capital markets verticals. Product and Services Development We leverage our customer relationships, global distribution, technology infrastructure and software development capabilities to diversify our products and services. We are continually developing, evaluating and testing new products to better serve our client base. The majority of our product development relates to evaluating new contracts, new data sets, new analytic offerings or new mortgage technologies. New contracts often must be reviewed and approved by relevant regulators. We expect to continue to invest in improving our data distribution and software services to meet the needs of our customers and improve their trading and connectivity experience by reducing latency, improving security and providing the most relevant information and data. While we primarily develop our products and services internally, we also periodically evaluate and enter into strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements to develop new products and services. We intend to continue to invest to expand our exchanges, fixed income and data services, and mortgage technology offerings to serve the evolving needs of our global customer base. Technology Technology is a key component of our business strategy and competitive position and we regard effective execution of our technology initiatives as crucial to our sustainable business operations, market competitiveness, compliance and risk management and overall success. Our technology solutions support our customers' workflows: trading and clearing technology, multi-asset class analytics, risk assessment tools, robust data offerings, mortgage technology, instant messaging capabilities and flexible connectivity and delivery solutions. Where feasible, we design and build our own systems and write our own software programs as we believe that having control over our technology allows us to be more responsive to our customers needs, better support the dynamic nature of our business, provide the highest quality technology and deliver relevant, timely and actionable data to the markets and customers we serve. Trading Platforms and Technology: The ICE trading platform supports trading in our cleared futures and options markets as well as our bilateral OTC markets. We also offer voice brokers a facility for submitting block trades for products that are eligible for clearing. Speed, reliability, resilience, capacity and security are critical performance criteria for electronic trading platforms. Connectivity to our trading platform for our markets is available through our web-based front-end applications, as well as independent software vendors, or ISVs, and APIs. The NYSE electronic trading platform features an open system architecture that allows users to access our system via front-end trading applications developed by ISVs. We developed core technology and architecture known as NYSE Pillar and have migrated all our Cash Equity Securities markets, Security Information Processor, or SIP, and Options Price Reporting Authority, or OPRA, NYSE Amex Options and Arca Options platforms to this architecture. This integrated platform was designed to improve performance and reduce the complexity of operating multiple trading systems for our customers, while enhancing consistency, performance and resiliency. Clearing Technology: A broad range of clearing and risk management services are offered through the integrated technology infrastructure that serves our clearing houses. ICE clearing technology is an integrated service-oriented platform that enables post-trade management, position management, management of the clearing house risk waterfall, contract settlement and treasury management functions. The primary focus of our derivatives clearing houses is the risk management of clearing members throughout all facets of the position management and settlement lifecycles. Our extensive technology and rules-based risk systems provide analytical tools that allow us to determine margin, evaluate credit risk and monitor the trading activities and overall risk of clearing members. 9 Data Services Technology: ICE Data Services technology uses integrated platforms to capture, store and process information, perform analytics and maintain connectivity solutions using a single configurable data capture mechanism and flexible delivery capability. Together, the platforms are intended to enable real-time processing and delivery of information, accelerate new product development and improve production reliability. Our data and analytics are delivered via real-time messaging, files, web services and other on-demand facilities and state-of-the-art front-ends. In addition, the technology underpinning our ICE Global Network supports scalable bandwidth and a wide variety of connectivity options including fiber, wireless, colocation and hosting. Mortgage Technology : The ICE Mortgage Technology platform provides software and hosting solutions that facilitate and automate many of the mission-critical business processes across the homeownership lifecycle. These solutions primarily consist of mortgage loan origination and servicing, processing and workflow management software applications, coupled with APIs and related data products. The platform is developed using industry-leading software technologies and third-party services, including hosting with a combination of public cloud and private data centers. The platform is integrated with multiple partner services necessary for loan origination and servicing, such as credit reporting and other services that lenders and servicers leverage through our network, which is offered through the platform. The platform includes industry leading information security infrastructure to protect the confidentiality and integrity of our customers' data. Operations We operate regionally diverse primary and backup data centers and maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities. These are designed to enable nearly continuous availability of our markets and other services in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events at any of our locations worldwide. Cybersecurity Our business activities rely extensively on technology and software, including the systems used by our business partners, regulators and customers. In addition, our activities involve the use and retention of confidential data and information. These activities make us susceptible to cyberattacks. We employ the following activities, processes and strategies to help evaluate, manage and address these risks. Strategy: We maintain a Cybersecurity Strategy, or CSS, which emphasizes consideration of the nature of our business, ongoing intelligence collection regarding cybersecurity threats, and initiatives to specifically address prominent areas of cybersecurity risk. The CSS outlines the key priorities for our cybersecurity program and the methods by which our Information Security department seeks to accomplish those goals. Governance and Leadership: Our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing ICE s risk management process, which includes management of general risks as well as specific risks, such as those relating to cybersecurity, facing our business. The Risk Committee of our Board of Directors has been delegated the primary responsibility for overseeing management s identification and mitigation of cybersecurity risk. The Risk Committee is composed of board members with diverse expertise including cybersecurity, risk management, technology, business operations, regulatory and finance. The Risk Committee receives presentations on at least a quarterly basis from the CISO and senior members of the Enterprise Risk Management, or ERM, team, and the Chair of the Risk Committee provides reports to the full Board of Directors following such presentations. Our Information Security department is led by our CISO, who, in addition to quarterly presentations to the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors, also provides comprehensive reports to a dedicated internal governance committee at least quarterly outlining threat assessment, control performance, and ongoing enhancements. Our current CISO has served in the role since September 2021 and leads the cybersecurity program across our regulated futures and options exchanges, CCPs, trade repositories, equities venues, systemically important financial market utilities (SIFMUs) and our data services network and mortgage technology platforms. Prior to joining ICE, our CISO served as CISO 