ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction We are a leading global operator of regulated exchanges, clearing houses and listings venues, and a provider of data services for commodity, financial, fixed income and equity markets. We operate regulated marketplaces for listing, trading and clearing a broad array of derivatives contracts and securities across major asset classes, including energy and agricultural commodities, metals, interest rates, equities, exchange traded funds, or ETFs, credit derivatives, digital assets, bonds and currencies, and also offer mortgage and technology services. In addition, we offer comprehensive data services to support the trading, investment, risk management and connectivity needs of customers around the world and across asset classes. Our History In 2000, ICE was founded with the idea of transforming the energy markets by creating a marketplace that removed barriers and drove greater transparency and access. By staying close to our customers, we have expanded into new asset classes and services, while retaining a core mission of reducing friction in markets and bringing efficiency to our customers workflows. Today, we are a Fortune 500 company, providing a global community of market participants an array of execution venues, risk management tools, capital-raising capabilities and mission-critical data and analytics. With a leading-edge approach to developing technology, we provide trading infrastructure in major market centers around the world, offering customers the ability to manage risk and make informed decisions in the jurisdictions and asset classes of their choice. By leveraging our core strengths, we seek to continue to identify new ways to serve our customers and transform global markets. 4 Our Business Segments Our business is conducted through two reportable business segments: Trading and Clearing; and Data and Listings. The majority of our identifiable assets are located in the United States, or U.S. and the United Kingdom, or U.K. For a summary of our revenues, net assets and net property and equipment by geographic region, see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Trading and Clearing Segment We provide execution and risk management services to businesses, investors and traders across major asset classes, such as commodities, interest rates, credit default swaps, or CDS, bonds, foreign exchange, equities and mortgage-related products. We operate multiple trading venues, including 12 regulated exchanges and six clearing houses, which are strategically positioned in major market centers around the world, including the U.S., U.K., European Union, or EU, Canada and Singapore. The Trading and Clearing segment accounted for 49% of our consolidated revenues, or $2.5 billion in 2019 . Our Trading and Clearing business can experience moderate seasonal fluctuations, although such seasonal impacts have been somewhat negated in periods of high volume trading. Key asset classes include: 5 Energy Futures and Options: We are a leading marketplace for global crude and refined oil. We offer trading and clearing services across a range of global benchmark contracts, including: Brent, West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, Platts Dubai, Gasoil, Heating Oil, and hundreds of additional grades and related spread contracts. The Brent complex, which includes the ICE Brent crude oil futures contract, our largest contract by volume traded, is a group of related benchmarks used to price a range of traded oil products, including approximately two-thirds of the world s internationally traded crude oil. The ICE Low Sulphur Gasoil futures contract is a European diesel oil contract that serves as a middle distillate pricing benchmark for refined oil products, particularly in Europe and Asia. We also operate the world s second largest market for trading in WTI crude oil futures, as measured by the volume of contracts traded. The WTI crude futures contract is the benchmark for pricing U.S. crude oil. Together, these benchmarks form the foundation for a suite of more than 600 other related oil products such as locational spreads, product spreads and refining spreads. These are precise risk management tools that benefit from the deep liquidity in, and their relationship to, our global oil benchmarks. Our global natural gas complex spans important trading hubs from the U.S. and Canada to Europe and Asia, underpinned by a global offering of more than 800 financially and physically-delivered natural gas contracts. We support liquidity and risk management across markets, from key delivery points in the U.S. to the U.K. National Balancing Point, or NBP, and European TTF futures contracts. In Asia, our Japan Korea Marker (JKM) Liquefied Natural Gas, or LNG, futures contract has become the leading LNG benchmark. In our power markets, we offer a global suite of electric power contracts and are the largest venue for electronic power trading in the world. In addition, we operate the world s leading market for emissions trading, an important component of risk management for global corporations and energy intensive industries in working to mitigate climate impacts. Agricultural Metals Futures and Options: We offer benchmark futures and options contracts on the most globally relevant commodities including: sugar, coffee, cocoa, cotton and frozen concentrated orange juice, as well as key metal contracts such as gold, silver and iron ore. Our markets provide global businesses effective price risk management tools to hedge input costs critical to the global flow of goods and services around the world. Financial Futures and Options: Our global interest rate complex spans geographies, currencies and tenors, providing market participants with effective tools to manage global interest rate risk. We offer the largest marketplace to transact in U.K. and European interest rates, including Short Sterling, Gilts, Sterling Overnight Index Average, or SONIA, and Euribor. In addition, we offer one- and three-month contracts on the Secured Overnight Financing Rates, or SOFR, adding to our interest rate complex. Other Financial Futures and Options include a range of contracts on key global equity and FX benchmarks such as the MSCI World, MSCI Emerging Markets, MSCI EAFE, the FTSE 100 and the U.S. Dollar Index, or USDX. 6 Cash Equities and Equity Options: Through our five registered securities exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, we serve a broad range of global capital markets participants, including investors, traders, market makers and global corporations. With a mission to provide a transparent, efficient and high quality trading market to our customers, we operate five cash equity exchange venues and two options markets. Fixed Income and Credit: We offer electronic trade execution for CDS instruments and are the industry leader in global CDS clearing, as measured by gross notional cleared. ICE Bonds, our fixed income execution business, offers deep liquidity pools across multiple trading protocols, such as click-to-trade, auctions and request for quote, or RFQ, providing our customers a choice in how they manage fixed income risk. Through ICE Mortgage Services, we operate the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, or MERS, a national electronic database that tracks changes in mortgage servicing and beneficial ownership interests in U.S. residential loans, and Simplifile, LC, or Simplifile, which serves as an electronic liaison between lenders, settlement agents and county recording offices, streamlining the local recording of residential mortgage transactions in the U.S. OTC and Other Transactions: Our over-the-counter, or OTC, energy markets comprise of bilaterally-traded energy contracts. We operate our financially-settled bilateral energy markets through ICE Swap Trade, and we offer electronic trading of contracts based on physically-settled natural gas, power and refined oil contracts through ICE U.S. OTC Commodity Markets. Other Revenue: Other revenues primarily include interest income on certain clearing margin deposits, regulatory penalties and fines, fees for use of our facilities, regulatory fees charged to member organizations of our U.S. securities exchanges, designated market maker service fees, technology development fees, exchange membership fees and agricultural grading and certification fees. We operate six clearing houses, each of which acts as a central counterparty that, for its clearing members, becomes the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer. Through this central counterparty function, our clearing houses provide financial security for each transaction, for the duration of the position, by limiting counterparty credit risk. Our clearing houses are responsible for providing clearing services to each of our futures exchanges and certain of our clearing houses clear contracts traded outside of our execution venues. Mechanisms have been created, called guaranty funds, to provide partial protection in the event of a clearing member default. With the exception of ICE NGX Canada Inc., or ICE NGX, each of the ICE Clearing Houses requires that each clearing member make deposits into a guaranty fund maintained by the relevant ICE Clearing House. In addition, we have contributed $404 million of our own cash to the guaranty funds included in the table below, and such amounts are at risk and could be used in the event of a clearing member default. In September 2019, we also added a layer of insurance to our clearing member default protection. The default insurance has a three-year term that commenced on September 17, 2019, for the following clearing houses in the following amounts: ICE Clear Credit - $50 million ; ICE Clear Europe - $75 million ; and, ICE Clear US - $25 million . In addition, ICE NGX maintains a guaranty fund of $100 million funded by a letter of credit issued by a major Canadian bank, and backed by default insurance. Our contributions to each clearing house as of December 31, 2019 are listed below and our clearing houses are referred to herein collectively as the ICE Clearing Houses : 7 Clearing House Products Cleared Location Exchange where Executed ICE's Contribution ICE Clear Europe Energy, agricultural, interest rates and equity index futures and options contracts and OTC CDS instruments U.K. ICE Futures Europe, ICE Futures U.S., ICE Endex, and third-party venues $308 million ICE Clear U.S. Agricultural, metals, FX, equity index futures and options contracts and digital assets futures contracts U.S. ICE Futures U.S. $128 million ICE Clear Credit North American, European, Asian-Pacific and Emerging Market CDS instruments U.S. Creditex, OTC and third-party venues $100 million ICE Clear Netherlands Derivatives on equities and equity indices traded on regulated markets The Netherlands ICE Endex $2 million ICE Clear Singapore Energy, metals and financial futures products Singapore ICE Futures Singapore $1 million ICE NGX Physical North American natural gas, electricity and oil futures Canada ICE NGX $115 million Of our total contribution to ICE Clear U.S. above, $35 million is solely applicable to any losses associated with a default in digital asset contracts. Data and Listings Segment We provide a range of data and listing services for global financial and commodity markets, including pricing and reference data, exchange data, analytics, feeds, index services, desktops and connectivity solutions as well as corporate and ETF listing services on our cash equity exchanges. Revenues in our Data and Listings segment are largely subscription-based and recurring in nature and generally not impacted by seasonality. The Data and Listings segment generated revenues of $2.7 billion in 2019 and accounted for 51% of our consolidated revenues. Pricing and Analytics: We provide global securities evaluations, reference data, market indices, risk analytics, derivative pricing and other information designed to address our customers portfolio management, trading, risk management, reporting valuation and regulatory compliance needs. 8 We provide fixed income valuations, including independent evaluated pricing services, on 2.8 million fixed income securities and other hard-to-value financial instruments each day. These instruments span approximately 154 countries and 65 currencies that cover a wide range of financial instruments including sovereign, corporate and municipal bonds, mortgage and asset-backed securities and leveraged loans. Our reference data complements our evaluated pricing by offering our clients a broad range of descriptive information, covering over 33 million financial instruments across over 210 markets. Our reference data coverage increased from 13 million securities in 2018 by adding both active and inactive, or historical, securities. This data is used by clients to inform risk management, support regulatory and compliance needs, create indices and improve operational efficiency. Additionally, we completed a unified and comprehensive reference data service for exchange traded derivatives, or ETD, products traded on ICE exchanges and cleared at ICE Clearing Houses. We also offer a range of multi-asset class analytics including valuation services for OTC derivatives and structured products, best execution services, ICE Liquidity Indicators and fixed income and equity portfolio analytics to help analyze risk and return exposures. These offerings, including our pricing and reference data, are delivered over our secure technology platforms and are used by investment professionals to simulate various market environments to help forecast performance, construct portfolios, validate investment strategies, conduct stress testing, generate dynamic risk measures, analyze asset cash flows and support regulatory compliance requirements. We also design and distribute many of today s leading indices and benchmarks across fixed income, equity, commodity and currency markets. ICE Data Indices, LLC, or ICE Data Indices, which includes the ICE BofA indices, is the benchmark provider for more than $1 trillion in fund assets, and is second largest in benchmarked assets under management, or AUM, for fixed income funds. Our index calculation agent services provide clients with independent and objective operational outsourcing, including design, support, maintenance, calculation and distribution of third-party indices. Our ETF valuations service provides clients with intraday calculations of indicative net asset values, or iNAVs. ICE Benchmark Administration, or IBA, is the regulated administrator of a range of benchmarks including the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, the ICE Swap Rate, the London Bullion Market, or LBMA Gold and Silver Price and the ISDA Standard Initial Margin Model, or SIMM, Crowdsourcing Utility. IBA has implemented processes, governance, systems and technology that enhance the transparency and security of these benchmarks and services, which are relied upon globally. Exchange Data and Feeds: We provide real-time, historical, and derived pricing data, order book and transaction information related to our trading venues, which span global commodity and financial markets. We publish a broad range of proprietary data and content from our electronic futures trading platform, as well as our cash equity and equity options venues. In addition, we receive a share of revenue from the National Market System Plan, or NMS Plan. Under the NMS Plan, the Financial Industry Markets Authority, or FINRA, and all SEC-registered securities exchanges send trades and top-of-book quotes in exchange listed securities to a central consolidator, which then distributes the data pursuant to SEC-approved requirements. Finally, through our consolidated feeds business, we offer a broad array of third-party trading venues and news feeds. Desktops and Connectivity: Our Desktop and Connectivity services provide the connection to our exchanges, clearing houses and data centers. These services also facilitate the global distribution of our ICE Data Services data. Through our ICE Global Network, we offer connectivity solutions to access markets and data through highly secure, resilient and low latency network options, as well as global colocation services and Direct Market Access provides connectivity to over 150 trading venues and data from over 750 third-party sources. Our ICE Global Network wireless service offers one of the most extensive ultra-low latency network connectivity solutions among the New York, Chicago, Toronto and Tokyo metro areas. Our Desktop service offers a range of products and services to support commodity and energy traders, risk managers, financial advisors, wealth managers, retail traders, Investor Relations Officers and Chief Financial Officers. These applications deliver real-time financial market information and decision-support tools to help clients analyze financial markets and make investment decisions. Our robust instant messaging, or IM, system protects the privacy of clients business information while allowing collaboration with nearly 100,000 market participants in the industry through a secure channel. Listings: Through our listings services, we offer corporate and ETF issuers access to the U.S. capital markets. Our listing venues allow companies to list domestic and international equity securities, corporate structured products, convertible bonds, trackers and debt securities. In 2019 , the NYSE and NYSE American LLC, or NYSE American, raised the most capital, globally, for the ninth consecutive year, with approximately $112 billion raised in initial public offerings, or IPOs, and follow-on offerings from over 300 transactions. The total capital raised by NYSE-listed and 9 NYSE American-listed companies was 30% higher than the capital raised by the next largest exchange and more than any other exchange in the world. Product and Services Development We leverage our customer relationships, global distribution, technology infrastructure and software development capabilities to diversify our products and services. We are continually developing, evaluating and testing new products for introduction into our markets to better serve our client base. The majority of our product development relates to evaluating new contracts or new markets based on customer demand. New contracts often must be reviewed and approved by relevant regulators. Outside of third-party licensing costs, we typically do not incur separate, material costs for the development of new products - such costs are embedded in our normal costs of operations. While we primarily develop our products and services internally, we also periodically evaluate and enter into strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements to develop new products and services. We intend to continue to invest to expand our trading, clearing, data and listings offerings to serve the evolving needs of our global customer base. Technology Technology is a key component of our business strategy and competitive position and we regard effective execution of our technology initiatives as crucial to our sustainable business operations, market competitiveness, compliance and risk management and overall success. Our technology solutions support the entire risk management workflow: trading and clearing technology, multi-asset class analytics, risk assessment tools, robust data offerings, instant messaging capabilities and flexible connectivity and delivery solutions. Where feasible, we design and build our own systems and write our own software programs since we believe that having control over our technology allows us to be more responsive to our customers needs, better support the dynamic nature of our business, provide the highest quality markets and deliver relevant, timely and actionable data to the markets and customers we serve. ICE Trading Platform and Technology: The ICE trading platform supports trading in our cleared futures and options markets as well as our bilateral OTC markets. We also offer voice brokers a facility for submitting block trades for products that are eligible for clearing. Speed, reliability, resilience, capacity and security are critical performance criteria for electronic trading platforms. Connectivity to our trading platform for our markets is available through our web-based front-end, as well as multiple independent software vendors, or ISVs, and application programming interfaces, or APIs. Clearing Technology: A broad range of trade management and clearing services are offered through the integrated technology infrastructure that serves our clearing houses. The ICE clearing systems encompass a number of integrated systems, including post-trade position management, risk management, settlement and treasury and reporting functions. A core component of our derivatives clearing houses is the risk management of clearing firm members. Our extensive technology and rules-based risk systems provide analytical tools that allow us to determine margin, evaluate credit risk and monitor the trading activities and overall risk of the clearing members. NYSE Trading Platforms and Related Technology: The NYSE electronic trading platform features an open system architecture that allows users to access our system via one of the many front-end trading applications developed by ISVs. For equity options, we offer a hybrid model of electronic and open outcry trading through NYSE American Options and NYSE Arca Options. We developed an integrated trading platform and matching engine known as NYSE Pillar and have migrated all of our cash equity securities markets to this platform. We also expect to migrate our equity options markets to this platform, which have historically operated on distinct platforms. This integrated platform is expected to improve performance and reduce the complexity of operating multiple trading systems. ICE Data Services Technology: ICE Data Services technology uses integrated platforms to capture, store and process information, perform analytics and maintain connectivity solutions using a single configurable data capture mechanism and a flexible delivery capability. Together, the platforms enable real-time processing and delivery of information, accelerate new product development and improve production reliability. Our data and analytics are delivered via real-time messaging, files, web services and other on-demand facilities and state-of-the-art front-ends. In addition, the technology underpinning our ICE Global Network supports scalable bandwidth and a wide variety of connectivity options including fiber, wireless, colocation and hosting. Business Continuity Planning and Disaster Recovery: We maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities designed to enable nearly continuous availability of our markets and other 10 services in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events at any of our locations worldwide. Cybersecurity Our business activities rely extensively on technology and software, including the systems used by our business partners, regulators and customers. In addition, our activities involve the use and retention of confidential data and information. These activities make us susceptible to cyber-attacks. We employ the following activities, processes and strategies to evaluate, manage and address these risks. Strategy: We maintain a Cybersecurity Strategy, or CSS, which emphasizes consideration of the nature of our business, ongoing intelligence collection regarding cybersecurity threats, and initiatives to specifically address prominent areas of cybersecurity risk. The CSS outlines the key priorities for our cybersecurity program and the methods by which our Information Security department seeks to accomplish those goals. The CSS is ratified by the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors and when applicable, also by the corporate governance committees of our regulated subsidiaries. Risk Management: Thematic threats such as sabotage, fraud, and theft of assets or customer data are used to frame our risk management activities. Asset theft often involves organized crime or financially motivated nations staging sophisticated, well-planned campaigns to steal significant cash, cryptocurrency, or equivalent assets. Our thematic threats, along with others, are evaluated by our Board of Directors as well as our Risk Committee, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Information Security Officer, or CISO. The CSS provides the framework we use for assessing risk, prioritizing testing, identifying remedial actions and validating improvements. The CSS also provides for the deployment of external and internal teams of ethical hackers that operate alongside our traditional vulnerability detection processes. Information Sharing: We recognize the importance of collaboration and information sharing among private sector firms in the financial services sector, across sectors, and with global public-sector agencies, when appropriate. Our cybersecurity leaders hold positions within the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center and the Financial Systemic Analysis and Resiliency Center in the U.S., the Financial Sector Cyber Collaboration Centre in the U.K., and similar organizations across the EU and in Singapore. Governance and Leadership: Our Information Security department is led by our CISO, who provides comprehensive reports to a dedicated internal governance committee at least quarterly outlining threat assessment, control performance, and ongoing enhancements. Additionally, cybersecurity matters are reported to and discussed with a cross-subsidiary leadership committee, the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors, and when applicable, subsidiary boards. Our CISO and other senior security leaders conduct periodic cybersecurity education sessions with our employees and directors. These sessions cover general cybersecurity topics as well as specific details regarding our cybersecurity program. Third-Party Review: Our information security group utilizes extensive penetration testing, vulnerability scanning, ethical hacking and maturity assessment services from global leaders in these practices. The results of these reviews alongside frequent regulatory and customer examinations are assessed, with any resulting mitigation activity assigned and tracked to remediation. Controls : Our identification of risks and selection of cyber-related controls is performed in the context of the critical financial infrastructure we maintain and operate. Our ongoing threat assessments are intended to identify changes in external events and in our activities, infrastructure and processes that could necessitate reprioritization of risks and controls. The nature of our business activities mandates an emphasis on sabotage and asset theft as primary threats in addition to the other typical contemporary themes of data theft. Our focus on these threats leads to an emphasis on social engineering controls, behavioral detection of insider threat, and deliberate and rehearsed recovery strategies. 11 Intellectual Property We rely on a wide range of intellectual property, both owned and licensed, in connection with the operation of our various businesses. We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the U.S., Europe and in other parts of the world. We have registered many of our trademarks in the U.S. and in certain other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. We also own the copyright to a variety of material. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include software code, printed and online publications, websites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. FTSE and the FTSE indexes are trademarks and service marks of the London Stock Exchange plc and Financial Times Limited and are used under license. MSCI and the MSCI indexes are trademarks and service marks of MSCI Inc. or its affiliates and are used under license. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had a total of 5,989 employees with 1,691 in New York, 1,035 in Atlanta, 754 in the U.K., 533 in India, and a total of 1,976 employees across our other offices around the world. Of our total employee base, less than 1% is subject to collective bargaining agreements, and such relations are considered to be good. Our Competitive Strengths We believe we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: depth and liquidity of markets; price transparency; reliability and speed of trade execution and processing; technological capabilities and innovation; breadth of products and services; rate and quality of new product developments; quality and stability of services; distribution and ease of connectivity; mid- and back-office service offerings, including differentiated and value-added services; transaction costs; and reputation. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, and that our deep, liquid markets, breadth of product offerings, new product development, customer relationships and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services distinguish us from our competitors. We believe that to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to develop new and innovative products and services, enhance our technology infrastructure, maintain liquidity and offer competitive pricing. We believe our key strengths include our: Diverse and Liquid Product Offerings: Many of our futures contracts serve as gl