ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction We are a provider of market infrastructure, data services and technology solutions to a broad range of customers including financial institutions, corporations and government entities. These products, which span major asset classes including futures, equities, fixed income and U.S. residential mortgages, provide our customers with access to mission critical tools that are designed to increase asset class transparency and workflow efficiency. While we report our results in three reportable business segments, we operate as one business, leveraging the collective expertise, particularly in data services and technology, that exists across our platforms to inform and enhance our operations. In our Exchanges segment, we operate regulated marketplaces for the listing, trading and clearing of a broad array of derivatives contracts and financial securities. In our Fixed Income and Data Services segment, we provide fixed income pricing, reference data, indices, analytics and execution services as well as global credit default swaps, or CDS, clearing and multi-asset class data delivery solutions. In our Mortgage Technology segment, we provide an end-to-end technology platform that offers customers comprehensive, digital workflow tools that aim to address the inefficiencies that exist in the U.S. residential mortgage market. Our History In 2000, ICE was founded with the idea of transforming energy markets by creating a network that removed barriers and provided greater transparency, efficiency and access. By staying close to our customers, we have expanded into new asset classes and services, while retaining a core mission of reducing friction in markets, bringing efficiency to our customers workflows and, ultimately, connecting our customers to opportunity. Today, we are a Fortune 500 company, providing our customers with an array of market infrastructure, data services and technology solutions that span a diverse set of asset classes. 4 Our Business Segments Our business is conducted through three reportable business segments: Exchanges; Fixed Income and Data Services; and Mortgage Technology. The majority of our identifiable assets are located in the U.S. and the United Kingdom, or U.K. For a summary of our revenues, net assets and net property and equipment by geographic region, see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Exchanges Segment We operate regulated marketplaces for the listing, trading and clearing of a broad array of derivatives contracts and financial securities, such as commodities, interest rates, foreign exchange and equities as well as corporate and exchange-traded funds, or ETFs. We operate multiple trading venues, including 13 regulated exchanges and 6 clearing houses, which are strategically positioned in major market centers around the world, including the U.S., U.K., European Union, or EU, Canada, Asia Pacific and the Middle East. Our Exchanges segment includes trading and listings revenue from our global futures network and the New York Stock Exchange and other registered securities exchanges, or collectively, the NYSE, and various data and connectivity services that are directly related to those exchange platforms. Revenues reflect a mix of both diversified transaction revenues and recurring data and listings revenues. Our Exchanges segment generated revenues, less transaction-based expenses of $3.9 billion and accounted for 54% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses in 2021. Our Exchanges business can experience moderate seasonal fluctuations, although such seasonal impacts have been somewhat muted in periods of high volume trading. Key asset classes include: Energy Futures and Options: We offer a range of futures and options products that are designed to enable our customers to manage their risk across global energy markets. Our flagship Brent crude oil contract serves as the cornerstone of a global oil network that today includes nearly 700 related crude and refined oil products including locational and refined spreads. In addition, as natural gas and Liquefied Natural Gas, or LNG, continue to globalize, we offer the broadest footprint of regional and global natural gas benchmarks, which span North America, Europe and Asia. Our leading environmental and power markets round out our diverse global energy network. For nearly two decades, our environmental markets have provided customers risk management tools to meet carbon cap and trade program requirements and renewable fuel standards. Increasingly, market participants are turning to our global 5 environmental markets to help navigate and manage risk related to climate change, the energy transition and the move to net zero emissions. Agricultural Metals Futures and Options: We offer futures and options on the leading global soft commodity markets including coffee, cocoa, cotton and sugar. Our benchmark contracts offer the most globally relevant price markers for these agricultural markets and provide our customers with the tools to manage price and counterparty risk and facilitate price discovery. Financial Futures and Options: We offer a diverse suite of equity futures and options contracts based on our own indices as well as those created by MSCI and FTSE . These contracts range from established global benchmarks, such as the MSCI Emerging Market Index, to newer products, such as MSCI s suite of Environmental, Social and Governance, or ESG, indices and the NYSE FAANG+ Index. Our global interest rate complex spans geographies, currencies and tenors, providing participants around the world with tools to manage risk in a capital efficient manner. Key products during 2021 included: Short Sterling, Euribor, Gilts, Sterling Overnight Index Average, or SONIA, and Secured Overnight Financing Rates, or SOFR, among others. Cash Equities and Equity Options: We offer securities trading services through our five registered securities exchanges, including the NYSE. Our securities exchanges are leading providers of transparent, efficient, and high quality markets for the securities issued by large and small companies, ETFs and equity options. These markets serve issuers, investors and other market participants across five cash equity and two options markets. Listings: The NYSE has been the venue of choice for innovators, visionaries and leaders for over 225 years. The NYSE offers a unique hybrid market model that combines leading technology with an accountable market maker to provide human judgment, a community of the world s greatest companies and premium brand visibility. With over 70% of S P 500 companies listed on the NYSE as of December 31, 2021, we are the leading listing venue across a range of sectors from technology and healthcare, to financials and energy. In addition to corporate listings, the NYSE is the global leader in ETF listings with 75%, or roughly $5.45 trillion, of ETF assets under management, or AUM, as of December 31, 2021. Revenues from listing fees are largely recurring in nature. Data and Connectivity Services: Our exchange data services include, among other offerings, proprietary real-time and historical pricing data, as well as order book and transaction information related to our global futures markets and the NYSE exchanges. In addition, we receive a share of revenue from the sale of consolidated U.S. equity and options market data by the National Market System Plans, or NMS Plans. Separately, we also provide connectivity services directly related to our futures, cash equity and options exchanges and clearing houses. Revenues from data and connectivity services fees are largely recurring in nature. OTC and Other: Our over-the-counter, or OTC, markets include bilateral energy markets that offer electronic trading of contracts based on physically-settled natural gas, power and refined oil contracts. Our other revenues primarily include interest income on certain clearing margin deposits related to our futures business, as well as revenue related to our digital asset initiative, Bakkt, until it merged with VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings, or VIH, in October 2021. We operate six clearing houses, each of which acts as a central counterparty, or CCP, that, for its clearing members, becomes the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer. Through this CCP function, our clearing houses provide financial security for each transaction, for the duration of the position, by limiting counterparty credit risk. Our clearing houses are responsible for providing clearing services to each of our futures exchanges and certain of our clearing houses clear contracts traded outside of our execution venues. Mechanisms have been created, called guaranty funds, to provide partial protection in the event of a clearing member default. With the exception of ICE NGX Canada Inc., or ICE NGX, each of the ICE Clearing Houses (as defined below) requires that each clearing member make deposits into a guaranty fund maintained by the relevant ICE Clearing House. In addition, we have contributed $398 million of our own cash to the guaranty funds which is one component of the table below, and such amounts are at risk and could be used in the event of a clearing member default. We also maintain default insurance as an additional layer of clearing member default protection, which is also reflected in the table below. The default insurance was added in September 2019 and has a three-year term that commenced on September 17, 2019 for the following clearing houses in the following amounts: ICE Clear Europe - $75 million; ICE Clear US - $25 million; and ICE Clear Credit - $50 million. In addition, the table below includes a guaranty fund of $115 million maintained by ICE NGX funded by the following: (1) a $100 million letter of credit issued by a major Canadian chartered bank, and backed by default insurance underwritten by Export Development Canada, a Crown corporation operated at arm s length from the 6 Canadian government, and (2) $15 million, which is included in our total cash contribution of $398 million, held as restricted cash to fund the first loss amount ICE NGX is responsible for under the default insurance policy. Our contributions to each clearing house as of December 31, 2021 are listed below and our clearing houses are referred to herein collectively as the ICE Clearing Houses : Clearing House Products Cleared Location Exchange where Executed Reporting Segment ICE's Contribution ICE Clear Europe Energy, agricultural, interest rates and equity index futures and options contracts and OTC European CDS instruments U.K. ICE Futures Europe, ICE Futures U.S., ICE Endex, ICE Futures Abu Dhabi and third-party venues Exchanges $322 million ICE Clear U.S. Agricultural, metals and foreign exchange, or FX, index futures and options contracts, equity futures contracts and digital assets futures contracts U.S. ICE Futures U.S. Exchanges $108 million 1 ICE Clear Credit 2 OTC North American, European, Asian-Pacific and Emerging Market CDS instruments U.S. Creditex and third-party venues Fixed Income and Data Services $100 million ICE Clear Netherlands Derivatives on equities and equity indices traded on regulated markets The Netherlands ICE Endex Exchanges $2 million ICE Clear Singapore Energy, metals and financial futures products and digital assets futures contracts Singapore ICE Futures Singapore Exchanges $1 million ICE NGX Physical North American natural gas, electricity and oil futures Canada ICE NGX Exchanges $115 million 1 Of our total contribution to ICE Clear U.S. above, $15 million is solely applicable to any losses associated with a default in digital asset contracts. 2 Although ICE Clear Credit is included in the Fixed Income and Data Services reporting segment, it is included in the table as a part of our suite of global clearing houses. Fixed Income and Data Services Segment Our Fixed Income and Data Services segment includes our fixed income data and analytics offerings, fixed income execution, or ICE Bonds, CDS clearing and other multi-asset class data and network services. Our leading fixed income pricing and reference data offerings serve as the foundation for a broader fixed income network that provides our customers solutions that span the full workflow including pre- and post-trade analytics, a range of execution protocols and indices. In addition, our multi-asset class connectivity, feeds and desktop solutions, which comprise our Other Data and Network Services business leverage a common sales force, which can enhance cross-selling opportunities across the Fixed Income and Data Services segment. The Fixed Income and Data Services segment generated revenues of $1.9 billion in 2021 and accounted for 26% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses. Fixed Income Data and Analytics: We are a leading provider of evaluated end-of-day and real-time pricing services on approximately three million fixed income securities spanning approximately 150 countries and 80 currencies including sovereign, corporate and municipal bonds, mortgage and asset-backed securities as well as leveraged loans. Our reference data offering complements our evaluated pricing by providing our clients a broad range of descriptive information, covering millions of financial instruments that, when coupled with our pricing services, act as the foundation for our leading fixed income index complex, ICE Data Indices, LLC, or ICE Data Indices. We also offer a range of fixed income analytics and other workflow solutions including: best execution services, liquidity indicators, fixed income portfolio analytics and our ETF Hub. Our fixed income customers rely on our data, indices and analytics to inform pre-trade decision making, support post-trade regulatory and compliance needs and improve operational efficiency. In addition, our newer offerings in this area include a variety of ESG data and analytics offerings. Fixed Income Data and Analytics revenues are largely recurring in nature. Fixed Income Execution: Alongside our leading Fixed Income Data and Analytics offerings, ICE Bonds is focused on providing tools to improve efficiency in customers' workflows across fixed income markets. ICE Bonds provides 7 customers with electronic markets that support multiple fixed income trading protocols including: click-to-trade, request for quotation, or RFQ, and auctions, including portfolio auctions/trading. CDS Clearing: As of December 31, 2021, we provide clearing services to over 90% of the global CDS market, as measured by CDS gross notional cleared. ICE Clear Credit currently supports Single Names CDS on over 550 reference entities and 175 Index CDS instruments. Revenues also include interest income on certain clearing margin deposits related to our CDS clearing business. Other Data and Network Services: We offer a multi-asset class connectivity solution called the ICE Global Network. The ICE Global Network offers highly secure, low latency connectivity solutions to reach over 150 trading venues and over 750 data sources. In addition, our consolidated feeds business provides data from a broad array of trading venues and news feeds through a common application programming interface, or API. Finally, our desktop solutions support commodity and energy traders, risk managers, financial advisors, wealth managers and retail traders, and include a robust instant messaging, or IM, system that protects the privacy of nearly 110,000 users, while also enabling greater collaboration. Other Data and Network Service revenues are largely recurring in nature. Mortgage Technology Segment Over the last five years, ICE has constructed an end-to-end network aimed at identifying and solving the inefficiencies that exist in the U.S. residential mortgage market. From application through closing and the secondary market, our network is intended to connect the key stakeholders across the mortgage origination workflow and provide our customers with data services and technology that deliver greater transparency and enable significant customer efficiency gains. Our Mortgage Technology segment generated revenues of $1.4 billion in 2021 and accounted for 20% of our consolidated revenues, less transaction-based expenses. Origination Technology: Our proprietary and comprehensive mortgage origination platform, Encompass, acts as a system of record for the mortgage origination, automating the gathering, reviewing, and verifying of mortgage-related information and enabling automated enforcement of rules and business practices designed to help ensure that each completed loan transaction is of high quality and adheres to secondary market standards. These revenues are based on recurring Software as a Service, or SaaS, subscription fees, with an additive Success-Based Pricing fee as lenders exceed the number of loans closed that is included with their monthly base subscription. In addition, the ICE Mortgage Technology Partner Network provides originators connectivity to the mortgage supply chain and facilitates the secure exchange of information between our customers and a broad ecosystem of proprietary offerings, third-party service providers and lenders and investors that are critical to consummating the millions of loan transactions that occur on our origination network each year. Revenue from the ICE Mortgage Technology Partner Network is largely transaction-based. Closing Solutions: Our closing solutions uniquely connect key participants, such as lenders, title and settlement agents and individual county recorders, to digitize the traditionally manual and paper-based closing and recording process. Our closing solutions also include revenues from the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., or MERS, database, which provides a leading system for recording and tracking changes in mortgage servicing rights and beneficial ownership interests in loans secured by U.S. residential real estate as well as Simplifile LC, a leading provider of electronic signing and recording technology and services. Revenues from closing solutions are largely transaction-based. Data and Analytics: ICE Mortgage Technology s Automation, Intelligence, Quality, or AIQ, offering applies machine learning and artificial intelligence, or AI, to the entire loan origination process, offering customers greater efficiency by streamlining data collection and validation through our automated document recognition and data extraction capabilities. AIQ also enables a series of AI-driven origination tasks and real-time risk analysis using tools called analyzers that are intended to further improve customer workflow efficiency. AIQ aims to help investors make loan purchases faster, by reducing operational costs and lowering buy-back risk through the application of AI to the purchase review process. AIQ revenues can be both recurring and transaction-based in nature. In addition, our Mortgage Technology s data offerings include real-time industry and peer benchmarking tools, which provide originators a granular view into the real-time trends of nearly half the U.S. residential mortgage market. We also provide a Data as a Service, or DaaS, offering through private data clouds for lenders to access their own data and origination information. Revenues related to our data products are largely subscription based and recurring in nature. Other: Other revenues include professional services fees and ancillary products. These revenues can be both recurring and transaction-based in nature. 8 Product and Services Development We leverage our customer relationships, global distribution, technology infrastructure and software development capabilities to diversify our products and services. We are continually developing, evaluating and testing new products to better serve our client base. The majority of our product development relates to evaluating new contracts, new data sets, new analytic offerings or new mortgage technologies. New contracts often must be reviewed and approved by relevant regulators. We expect to continue to invest in improving our data distribution and software services to meet the needs of our customers and improve their trading and connectivity experience by reducing latency, improving security and providing the most relevant information and data. While we primarily develop our products and services internally, we also periodically evaluate and enter into strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements to develop new products and services. We intend to continue to invest to expand our exchanges, fixed income and data services, and mortgage technology offerings to serve the evolving needs of our global customer base. Technology Technology is a key component of our business strategy and competitive position and we regard effective execution of our technology initiatives as crucial to our sustainable business operations, market competitiveness, compliance and risk management and overall success. Our technology solutions support our customers' workflows: trading and clearing technology, multi-asset class analytics, risk assessment tools, robust data offerings, mortgage technology, instant messaging capabilities and flexible connectivity and delivery solutions. Where feasible, we design and build our own systems and write our own software programs since we believe that having control over our technology allows us to be more responsive to our customers needs, better support the dynamic nature of our business, provide the highest quality technology and deliver relevant, timely and actionable data to the markets and customers we serve. Trading Platforms and Technology: The ICE trading platform supports trading in our cleared futures and options markets as well as our bilateral OTC markets. We also offer voice brokers a facility for submitting block trades for products that are eligible for clearing. Speed, reliability, resilience, capacity and security are critical performance criteria for electronic trading platforms. Connectivity to our trading platform for our markets is available through our web-based front-end applications, as well as independent software vendors, or ISVs, and APIs. The NYSE electronic trading platform features an open system architecture that allows users to access our system via front-end trading applications developed by ISVs. We developed core technology and architecture known as NYSE Pillar and have migrated all our Cash Equity Securities markets, Security Information Processor, or SIP, and Options Price Reporting Authority, or OPRA, platforms to this architecture. For equity options, we offer a hybrid model of electronic and open outcry trading through NYSE American Options and NYSE Arca Options. We also expect to migrate our equity options markets to NYSE Pillar, which have historically operated on distinct platforms. This integrated platform is expected to improve performance and reduce the complexity of operating multiple trading systems. Clearing Technology: A broad range of clearing and risk management services are offered through the integrated technology infrastructure that serves our clearing houses. ICE clearing technology is an integrated service-oriented platform that enables post-trade management, position management, management of the clearing house risk waterfall, contract settlement and treasury management functions. The primary focus of our derivatives clearing houses is the risk management of clearing members throughout all facets of the position management and settlement lifecycles. Our extensive technology and rules-based risk systems provide analytical tools that allow us to determine margin, evaluate credit risk and monitor the trading activities and overall risk of clearing members. Data Services Technology: ICE Data Services technology uses integrated platforms to capture, store and process information, perform analytics and maintain connectivity solutions using a single configurable data capture mechanism and flexible delivery capability. Together, the platforms are intended to enable real-time processing and delivery of information, accelerate new product development and improve production reliability. Our data and analytics are delivered via real-time messaging, files, web services and other on-demand facilities and state-of-the-art front-ends. In addition, the technology underpinning our ICE Global Network supports scalable bandwidth and a wide variety of connectivity options including fiber, wireless, colocation and hosting. Mortgage Technology : The ICE Mortgage Technology platform enables lenders to originate, process, fund and deliver residential mortgages using various applications, APIs, data products and other services offered. The platform is developed using industry-leading software technologies and third-party services, including hosting with a combination of public cloud and private data centers. The platform is integrated with multiple services necessary for 9 loan origination, such as credit reporting and other services that lenders leverage through our network, which is offered through the platform. The platform includes industry leading information security infrastructure to protect the confidentiality and integrity of our customers' data. Operations We operate regionally diverse primary and backup data centers and maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities. These are designed to enable nearly continuous availability of our markets and other services in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events at any of our locations worldwide. Cybersecurity Our business activities rely extensively on technology and software, including the systems used by our business partners, regulators and customers. In addition, our activities involve the use and retention of confidential data and information. These activities make us susceptible to cyberattacks. We employ the following activities, processes and strategies to evaluate, manage and address these risks. Strategy: We maintain a Cybersecurity Strategy, or CSS, which emphasizes consideration of the nature of our business, ongoing intelligence collection regarding cybersecurity threats, and initiatives to specifically address prominent areas of cybersecurity risk. The CSS outlines the key priorities for our cybersecurity program and the methods by which our Information Security department seeks to accomplish those goals. The CSS is ratified by the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors and when applicable, also by the corporate governance committees of our regulated subsidiaries. Risk Management: Thematic threats such as sabotage, fraud, and theft of assets or customer data are used to frame our risk management activities. Asset theft often involves organized crime or financially motivated nations staging sophisticated, well-planned campaigns to steal significant cash, cryptocurrency, or equivalent assets. Our thematic threats, along with others, are evaluated by our Board of Directors as well as our Risk Committee, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Information Security Officer, or CISO. The CSS provides the framework we use for assessing risk, prioritizing testing, identifying remedial actions and validating improvements. The CSS also provides for the deployment of external and internal teams of ethical hackers that operate alongside our traditional vulnerability detection processes. Information Sharing: We recognize the importance of collaboration and information sharing among private sector firms in the financial services sector, across sectors, and with global public-sector agencies, when appropriate. Our cybersecurity leaders hold positions within the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center, or FS-ISAC, and the cross-sector Analysis and Resiliency Center, or ARC, in the U.S., the Financial Sector Cyber Collaboration Centre, or FSCCC, in the U.K., and similar organizations across the Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and Asia Pacific, or APAC, regions. Governance and Leadership: Our Information Security department is led by our CISO, who provides comprehensive reports to a dedicated internal governance committee at least quarterly outlining threat assessment, control performance, and ongoing enhancements. Additionally, cybersecurity matters are reported to and discussed with a cross-subsidiary leadership committee, the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors, and when applicable, subsidiary boards. Our CISO and other senior security leaders conduct periodic cybersecurity education sessions with our employees and directors. These sessions cover general cybersecurity topics as well as specific details regarding our cybersecurity program. Third-Party Review: Our Information Security department utilizes extensive penetration testing, vulnerability scanning, ethical hacking and maturity assessment services from global leaders in these practices. The results of these reviews alongside frequent regulatory and customer examinations are assessed, with any resulting mitigation activity assigned and tracked to remediation. Controls : Our identification of risks and selection of cyber-related controls is performed in the context of the critical financial infrastructure we maintain and operate. Our ongoing threat assessments are intended to identify changes in external events and in our activities, infrastructure and processes that could necessitate reprioritization of risks and controls. The nature of our business activities mandates an emphasis on sabotage and asset theft as primary threats in addition to contemporary themes of data theft. Our focus on these threats leads to an emphasis on network security, social engineering controls, behavioral detection of insider threat, and deliberate and rehearsed