Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 17 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2 Properties 31 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 31 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 Item 6 [Reserved] 33 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 58 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 60 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 60 Item 9B Other Information 61 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 61 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 62 Item 11 Executive Compensation 62 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 62 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 62 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 62 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 63 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 63 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F -1 Exhibit Index Signatures 4 The terms IDEXX, Company, registrant, we, us, and our included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K mean IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. and all subsidiaries that are consolidated under U.S. GAAP. We have included certain terms and abbreviations used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the " Glossary of Terms and Selected Abbreviations. Our name, logo and the following terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are either registered trademarks or trademarks of IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries: 4Dx , Alertys , Animana Veterinary Software, Catalyst Dx , Catalyst One , Coag Dx , Colilert , Colisure , Cornerstone , DVMAX , Enterolert , ezyVet , Feline Triple , Filta-Max , Filta-Max xpress , IDEXX I-Vision CR , IDEXX I-Vision DR , IDEXX I-Vision Mobile , IDEXX ImageBank , IDEXX Neo , IDEXX-PACS , IDEXX SDMA , IDEXX VetLab , LaserCyte , LaserCyte Dx, OPTI , Pet Health Network , Petly Plans, Practice Profile , ProCyte Dx , Pseudalert , Quanti-Tray , rVetLink , SediVue Dx , SNAP , SNAPduo , SNAP Pro , SNAP cPL , SNAP fPL , SNAPshot Dx , IDEXX VetAutoread , VetConnect , IDEXX VetLab UA , VetLINK , VetLyte , Vet Radar , VetStat , and VetTest . VetAutoread is a trademark of QBC Diagnostics. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements about our business and expectations within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), include statements relating to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; our expectations regarding supply chain and logistics disruptions; our expectations regarding the labor supply; future revenue growth rates; future tax benefits; the impact of tax legislation and regulatory action; revenue recognition timing and amounts; business trends, earnings and other measures of financial performance; the effect of economic downturns on our business performance; the projected effect of patent and license expirations; the projected impact of foreign currency exchange rates and hedging activities; demand for our products; realizability of assets; future cash flow and uses of cash; future repurchases of common stock; future levels of indebtedness and capital spending; interest expense; warranty expense; share-based compensation expense; the adoption and projected impact of new accounting standards; critical accounting estimates; future commercial and operational efforts; future product launches; projected cost and completion of capital investments; and competition. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as expects, may, anticipates, intends, would, will, plans, believes, estimates, should, project, and similar words and expressions. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide our current expectations or forecasts of future events, are based on current estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions, and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual events or results may differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, the matters described under the headings "Business," "Risk Factors," "Legal Proceedings," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this Annual Report on Form 10-K was first filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public and they are subject to the risks and uncertainties described or cross-referenced in this section. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. 5 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS COMPANY OVERVIEW IDEXX was incorporated in Delaware in 1983. We develop, manufacture, and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, dairy and water testing industries. We also provide human medical point-of-care and laboratory diagnostics. Our primary products and services are: Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprised of instruments, consumables, and rapid assay test kits; Veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services; Practice management and diagnostic imaging systems and services used by veterinarians; Health monitoring, biological materials testing, laboratory diagnostic instruments, and services used by the biomedical research community; Diagnostic, health-monitoring products for livestock, poultry, and dairy; Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; and Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers and SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR (COVID-19 test) used in the human diagnostics sector. Our Purpose is to be a great company that creates exceptional long-term value for our customers, employees, and stockholders by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT We operate primarily through three business segments: Companion Animal Group, Water quality products, and Livestock, Poultry and Dairy. Our Other operating segment combines and presents our human medical diagnostic products and services business with our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. Companion Animal Group ( CAG ) - Diagnostic and information management-based products and services for the companion animal veterinary industry, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions, outside reference laboratory services, and veterinary software and services. CAG Diagnostics We provide diagnostic capabilities that meet veterinarians diverse needs through a variety of modalities, including in-clinic diagnostic solutions and outside reference laboratory services. Regardless of modality utilized, veterinarians are provided with clinically relevant data which is integrated within our information management technologies. The result is a comprehensive view of patient diagnostic information that is easily accessible by both the veterinarian and pet owner. Integrated Diagnostic Information Management . VetConnect PLUS is a cloud-based technology that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients data from all of IDEXX s diagnostic modalities. These integrated diagnostic results provide the veterinarian with a visualization of patient-specific testing results, allowing the veterinarian to easily see and trend diagnostic results, enabling greater medical insight and enhanced decision-making. In addition, VetConnect PLUS provides instant mobile or browser-based access to results, which can be printed or emailed to pet owners and other veterinarians. In-Clinic Diagnostic Solutions . Our in-clinic diagnostic solutions are comprised of our IDEXX VetLab suite of in-clinic chemistry, hematology, immunoassay, urinalysis, and coagulation analyzers, as well as associated consumable products that provide real-time reference lab quality diagnostic results. Our in-clinic diagnostic solutions also include a broad range of single-use, IDEXX SNAP rapid assay test kits that provide quick, accurate, and convenient point-of-care diagnostic test results for a variety of companion animal disease causing pathogens and health conditions. Additionally, we offer extended maintenance agreements in connection with the sale of our instruments. 6 Blood and Urine Chemistry . We have three blood and urine chemistry analyzers that are used by veterinarians to measure levels of certain enzymes and other substances in blood or urine for monitoring health status and assisting in diagnosing physiologic conditions. We actively sell the Catalyst One Chemistry analyzer. We continue to support our Catalyst Dx and VetTest Chemistry analyzers. We also support the VetStat Electrolyte and Blood Gas analyzer. Sales of consumables to customers who use our chemistry analyzers provide the majority of our instrument consumables revenues from our installed base of IDEXX VetLab instruments. Hematology . We sell three hematology analyzers that assess the cellular components of blood, including red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (also called a complete blood count). These analyzers include the ProCyte One and ProCyte Dx hematology analyzers. We introduced the ProCyte One analyzer in 2020 and began delivery of these analyzers in 2021. We also sell the Coag Dx analyzer, which permits the detection and diagnosis of blood clotting disorders. While we currently do not sell the LaserCyte Dx hematology analyzer and the IDEXX VetAutoread hematology analyzer, we continue to support these analyzers. Rapid Assay . The SNAP rapid assays are single-use, handheld test kits that can work without the use of instrumentation, although many kits may also be activated with results automatically captured and interpreted by the SNAP Pro Analyzer. This device improves medical care by allowing veterinarians to share the test results with the pet owner on the SNAP Pro Analyzer screen, or via VetConnect PLUS. Our SNAPshot Dx analyzer can run multiple patient samples at once. The principal canine SNAP rapid assay tests include SNAP 4Dx Plus, which tests for the six vector-borne diseases causing pathogens, including Lyme disease as well as canine heartworm, and SNAP Heartworm RT, which tests for heartworm. Sales of our canine vector-borne disease tests are greater in the first half of our fiscal year due to seasonality of disease testing in the veterinary practices in the Northern Hemisphere. The principal feline SNAP rapid assay tests include SNAP Feline Triple, which tests for feline immunodeficiency virus ( FIV ) (which is similar to the virus that leads to AIDS in humans), and SNAP FIV/FeLV Combo Test, which tests for FIV and Feline leukemia virus ("FeLV"). Urinalysis . The SediVue Dx analyzer is designed to provide automated real-time results in a fraction of the time of manual microscope analysis, which allows veterinary staff to perform a urine sediment analysis in approximately 3 minutes. The IDEXX VetLab UA analyzer provides rapid, automated capture of semi-quantitative chemical urinalysis from IDEXX UA strips and is validated specifically for veterinary use. IDEXX VetLab Station . The IDEXX VetLab Station ( IVLS ) connects and integrates the diagnostic information from all the IDEXX VetLab analyzers, and thus, provides reference laboratory information management system capability. IVLS also sends all results created on connected instruments instantly to VetConnect PLUS. We sell IVLS as an integral component for our in-clinic analyzer suite. Outside Reference Laboratory Diagnostic and Consulting Services . We offer commercial reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services to veterinarians in many developed geographies worldwide, including customers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, South Africa, South Korea, and Brazil, through a network of approximately 80 laboratories. Customers use our services by submitting samples by courier or overnight delivery to one of our facilities. Most test results have same-day or next-day turnaround times. Our diagnostic laboratory business also provides health monitoring and diagnostic testing services to biomedical research customers in North America, Europe, and Asia. Our reference laboratories offer a large selection of tests and diagnostic panels to detect a number of disease states and other conditions in animals, including all tests that can be run in-clinic at the veterinary practice with our instruments or rapid assays. This menu of tests also includes a number of specialized tests that we have developed that allow practitioners to diagnose increasingly relevant diseases and conditions in dogs and cats, including parasites, heart disease, allergies, pancreatitis, diabetes, renal disease, and infectious diseases. Additionally, we provide specialized veterinary consultation, telemedicine, and advisory services, including radiology, cardiology, internal medicine, and ultrasound consulting. These services enable veterinarians to obtain readings and interpretations of test results transmitted by telephone and over the Internet. 7 Veterinary Software and Services Diagnostic Imaging Systems Veterinary Software and Services. We develop, market, and sell a portfolio of software and services for independent veterinary clinics and corporate groups. This portfolio includes: Practice management systems . Software, hardware, and integrated services that run key functions of veterinary clinics, including managing patient electronic health records, scheduling, client communication, billing, and inventory management. Our practice information management systems offerings include cloud-based ezyVet, Animana, IDEXX Neo, and Cornerstone Cloud, and on-premise Cornerstone and DVMAX. To support the software system needs of practices, IDEXX provides integrated services including: Payment Solutions, Data Backup Recovery, and Practice Supplies. Software applications that extend workflow capabilities for practices and groups . We are able to improve overall patient management and workflow optimization through coordination and tracking of every step of a patient during a hospital stay. Our SmartFlow cloud offering works in conjunction with major veterinary practice management systems, including Cornerstone, Animana, IDEXX Neo, DVMAX, and certain third-party practice management systems, and VetRadar provides workflow capability for ezyVet. Client marketing and wellness plan management . In addition, we offer cloud-based client communication (Pet Health Network Pro and Pet Health Network 3D) and preventive care plan management software (Petly Plans) designed to strengthen the relationship between the veterinarian and the pet owner. To support the communication needs between general practices and specialty referral practices, IDEXX offers rVetLink software. Lastly, IDEXX Enterprise provides centralized management and reporting capabilities for groups of veterinary practices. Diagnostic Imaging Systems . Our diagnostic imaging systems capture radiographic images in digital form, replacing traditional x-ray film and the film development process, which generally requires the use of hazardous chemicals and darkrooms. We market and sell two diagnostic imaging systems primarily used in small animal veterinary applications: the IDEXX ImageVue DR50 and the IDEXX ImageVue DR30. Our diagnostic imaging systems employ picture archiving and communication system ( PACS ) software called IDEXX-PACS, which facilitates radiographic image capture and review. IDEXX Web PACS is our cloud-based software-as-a-service ( SaaS ) offering for viewing, accessing, storing, and sharing multi-modality diagnostic images. IDEXX Web PACS is integrated with Cornerstone, ezyVet, IDEXX Neo, DVMAX, and IDEXX VetConnect PLUS to provide centralized access to diagnostic imaging results alongside patient diagnostic results from any internet connected device. IDEXX I-Vision Mobile is a software application that allows veterinarians with IDEXX digital radiography systems the ability to request, view and send images using an iPad mobile tablet. This application integrates with our IDEXX-PACS software. We believe that the breadth of our full diagnostic solution, including novel products and services developed and made available only by IDEXX, as well as the seamless software integration of our offering, provide a differentiated competitive advantage by giving veterinarians the tools and services to offer advanced veterinary medical care. We believe that with the use of our products and services, veterinary practices significantly improve the quality of veterinary care provided to their patients, increase staff efficiencies, and better communicate the value of this medical care to the pet owner. We believe that these capabilities, enabled by the use of IDEXX products and services, improve the effectiveness and financial health of the veterinary practice. 8 Water quality products ( Water ) - Water provides innovative testing solutions for easy, rapid, and accurate detection and quantification of various microbiological parameters in water. Water testing . Our principal products are the Colilert, Colilert-18, and Colisure tests, which detect the presence of total coliforms and E. coli in water. These organisms are broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. Our products utilize nutrient-indicators that produce a change in color or fluorescence when metabolized by target microbes in the sample. Our water tests are used by government laboratories, water utilities, and private certified laboratories to test drinking water in compliance with regulatory standards, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) standards. The tests also are used in evaluating water used in production processes (for example, in beverage and pharmaceutical applications) and in evaluating bottled water, recreational water, wastewater, and water from private wells. We also sell consumables, parts, and accessories to be used with many of our water testing products. Enterolert . Our Enterolert products detect the presence of enterococci in drinking, waste, and recreational waters. Enterococci, bacteria normally found in human and animal waste, are organisms broadly used as microbial indicators for potential fecal contamination in water. Pseudalert . Our Pseudalert products detect the presence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in pool, spa, and bottled water. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a pathogen that can cause hot-tub rash, swimmer s ear, and potentially fatal infections in individuals with weakened immune systems. Filta-Max and Filta-Max xpress . Our Filta-Max and Filta-Max xpress products are used in the detection of Cryptosporidium and Giardia in water. Cryptosporidium and Giardia are parasites that can cause potentially fatal gastrointestinal illness if ingested. We also distribute certain water testing kits manufactured by Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. that complement our Cryptosporidium and Giardia testing products. Legiolert . Our Legiolert product is a simple culture method test for the detection of Legionella pneumophila, the most common Legionella species in water and the primary cause of Legionnaires disease. The Legiolert test is designed to be used on potable or non-potable water sources with results in seven days. Quanti-Tray products . Our Quanti-Tray products, when used in conjunction with our Colilert, Colilert-18, Colisure, Enterolert, Pseudalert, Heterotrophic Plate Count ("HPC") or Legiolert products, provide users quantitative measurements of microbial contamination rather than a presence/absence indication. Our Quanti-Tray Sealer PLUS, and Quanti-Tray Sealer 2X are used with the Quanti-Tray products for the determination of bacterial density in water samples. Our SimPlate for HPC product detects the total number of the most common bacteria in a water sample. Livestock, Poultry and Dairy ( LPD ) - LPD provides diagnostic tests, services, and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve producer efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food. Livestock, Poultry, Heard Health Screening and Production Management . We sell diagnostic tests, services and related instrumentation that are used to manage the health status of livestock and poultry, to improve producer efficiency, and to ensure the quality and safety of milk. Our livestock and poultry diagnostic products are purchased by government and private laboratories that provide testing services to livestock veterinarians, producers, and processors. Our herd health screening services are offered to livestock veterinarians and producers. Our principal livestock and poultry diagnostic products include tests for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus ( BVDV ), Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome ( PRRS ), and African Swine Fever ("ASFV"). BVDV is a common and contagious viral infection that suppresses the immune system, making the animal susceptible to a host of other infections, impacting beef and dairy production yields as a result. PRRS is a contagious virus causing reproductive problems and respiratory diseases in swine, leading to increased piglet mortality, reduced growth, and vulnerability to secondary infections. Our RealPCR ASFV Test is a real-time polymerase chain reaction ("PCR") assay that provides early and accurate detection of ASFV supporting prevention, control, and eradication programs by veterinarians and producers. We also sell our Rapid Visual Pregnancy Test and Alertys On-Farm Pregnancy Test for cattle, which can detect pregnancy 28 days after breeding using whole blood samples. Dairy products . Our principal dairy products use our SNAP test platform and are used by dairy producers and processors worldwide to detect antibiotic drug residue in milk. Our primary product lines are SNAP Beta-Lactam ST and SNAPduo Beta-Tetra ST, which detect certain beta lactam and tetracycline antibiotic residues. We also sell SNAP tests for the detection of certain other contaminants in milk, such as Aflatoxin M1. 9 Other - Our Other operating segment combines and presents our human medical diagnostic products and services business ( OPTI Medical ) with our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. OPTI Medical. Through OPTI Medical, we sell point-of-care analyzers and related consumables for use in human medical hospitals and clinics to measure electrolytes, blood gases, acid-base balance, glucose, lactate, blood urea nitrogen and ionized calcium, and to calculate other parameters such as base excess and anion gap. These OPTI analyzers are used primarily in emergency rooms, operating rooms, cardiac monitoring areas, and other locations where time-critical diagnostic testing is performed within the hospital setting. Our OPTI CCA-TS2 Blood Gas and Electrolyte analyzer contains many new features relative to previous generation blood gas analyzers including customized workflows, faster time to result, improved communication, and a multi-level electronic control. Similar to our earlier generation OPTI CCA and OPTI Touch Electrolyte analyzers, the OPTI CCA-TS2 analyzer runs whole blood, plasma, and serum samples on single-use disposable cassettes that contain various configurations of analytes. Through OPTI Medical we also provide human COVID-19 testing products and laboratory services. On May 7, 2020, we announced that OPTI Medical was granted by the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") an Emergency Use Authorization ("EUA") for the OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR laboratory test kit for the detection of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. On June 5, 2020 OPTI Medical announced that it had received the CE mark certification in the European Union for its OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR laboratory test kit. Additionally, the FDA has granted EUA for the OPTI DNA/RNA Magnetic Bead Kit for nucleic acid extraction from respiratory samples to be used with the OPTI SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR test kit, which enables OPTI Medical Systems to provide laboratories with a complete OPTI Medical Systems-manufactured workflow solution for COVID-19 testing. We also provide human COVID-19 testing laboratories services to the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention in support of their COVID-19 testing program. Other Activities. We own certain drug delivery technology intellectual property, that we continue to seek to commercialize through agreements with third parties, such as pharmaceutical companies, which are included in the Other segment. Additional information about our products and services can be found on our website. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this annual report or any other filing we make with the SEC. MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION We market, sell, and service our products worldwide through our marketing, customer service, sales, and technical service groups, as well as through independent distributors and other resellers. We maintain sales offices outside the U.S. in all major regions including Africa, Asia Pacific, Canada, Europe, Middle East, and Latin America. Generally, we select the appropriate distribution channel for our products based on the type of product, technical service requirements, number and concentration of customers, regulatory requirements, and other factors. We market our companion animal diagnostic products to veterinarians directly in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we sell our companion animal diagnostic products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through distributors and other resellers. We sell our veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services worldwide, generally through our direct sales force. We market our diagnostic imaging products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada. We market our software products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Australia. We market our Water and LPD products primarily through our direct sales force in the U.S. and Canada. Outside the U.S. and Canada, we market these products through our direct sales force and, in certain countries, through selected independent distributors. We sell our OPTI products and services both directly and through independent human medical product distributors. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Our business includes the development and introduction of new products and services and may involve entry into new business areas. We maintain active research and development programs in each of our business segments. Our research and development expenses, which consist of salaries, employee benefits, materials and external consulting and development costs, were $161.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, or 5.0% of our consolidated revenue, $141.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, or 5.2% of our consolidated revenue and $133.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, or 5.5% of our consolidated revenue. 10 PATENTS AND LICENSES We actively seek to obtain patent protection in the U.S. and other countries for inventions covering our products and technologies. We also license patents and technologies from third parties. Patents and licenses of patents and technologies from third parties are considered important to us based on a variety of factors, including providing protection for our inventions and other intellectual property; affording protection from competitors in certain sectors; enabling the use of more effective and efficient technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings; strengthening our reputation and standing among customers, employees, and key suppliers; and acting as a deterrent against counterfeiters, imitators, and other copiers of technologies. Important patents and licenses include those related to: Methods for detecting BVDV that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; Reagents and methods for the detection of Anaplasma phagocytophilum that started to expire in 2017 and will continue into 2022; Reagents and methods for the detection of Ehrlichia canis that began to expire in 2019 and will continue into 2022; Catalyst consumables that began to expire in 2020 and will continue into 2035; Catalyst instruments that expire beginning in 2026 and will continue into 2032; Reagents and methods for the detection of canine pancreatic lipase that expire in 2026; and Patents relating to reagents and methods for the detection of SDMA that expire beginning in 2029 and will continue into 2037. While we consider these technolo