Item 1 Business 6 Item 1A Risk Factors 20 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 31 Item 2 Properties 32 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 36 Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 37 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 65 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 67 Item 9B Other Information 68 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 69 Item 11 Executive Compensation 69 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 69 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 69 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 69 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 70 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 70 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Exhibit Index Signatures 4 The terms IDEXX, Company, registrant, we, us, and our included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K mean IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. and all subsidiaries that are consolidated under U.S. GAAP. We have included certain terms and abbreviations used throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the " Glossary of Terms and Selected Abbreviations. Our name, logo and the following terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are either registered trademarks or trademarks of IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries: 4Dx , Animana Veterinary Software, Catalyst Dx , Catalyst One , Coag Dx , Colilert , Colisure , Cornerstone , DVMAX , Enterolert , Feline Triple , Filta-Max , Filta-Max xpress , IDEXX I-Vision CR , IDEXX I-Vision DR , IDEXX I-Vision Mobile , IDEXX ImageBank , IDEXX Neo , IDEXX-PACS , IDEXX SDMA , IDEXX VetLab , IDEXX VPM , LaserCyte , LaserCyte Dx, OPTI , PetChek , PetDetect , Pet Health Network , Petly Plans, Practice Profile , ProCyte Dx , Pseudalert , Quanti-Tray , rVetLink , SediVue Dx , IDEXX SmartService , Smart Flow , SNAP , SNAPduo , SNAP Pro , SNAP cPL , SNAP fPL , SNAPshot Dx , IDEXX VetAutoread , VetConnect , IDEXX VetLab UA , VetLINK , VetLyte , VetStat , and VetTest . VetAutoread is a trademark of QBC Diagnostics. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 , contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements about our business and expectations within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), include statements relating to future revenue growth rates, future tax benefits; business trends, earnings and other measures of financial performance; the effect of economic downturns on our business performance; projected impact of foreign currency exchange rates; demand for our products; realizability of assets; future cash flow and uses of cash; future repurchases of common stock; future levels of indebtedness and capital spending; interest expense; warranty expense; share-based compensation expense; the adoption and projected impact of new accounting standards; future commercial efforts; future product launches; projected cost and completion of capital investments; and competition. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as expects, may, anticipates, intends, would, will, plans, believes, estimates, should, project, and similar words and expressions. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide our current expectations or forecasts of future events, are based on current estimates, projections, beliefs, and assumptions, and are not guarantees of future performance. Actual events or results may differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, the matters described under the headings "Business," "Risk Factors," "Legal Proceedings," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of the day this Annual Report on Form 10-K was first filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public and they are subject to the risks and uncertainties described or cross-referenced in this section. While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our estimates or expectations change. 5 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS COMPANY OVERVIEW IDEXX was incorporated in Delaware in 1983. We develop, manufacture, and distribute products and provide services primarily for the companion animal veterinary, livestock and poultry, dairy and water testing markets. We also sell a line of portable electrolytes and blood gas analyzers for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. Our primary products and services are: Point-of-care veterinary diagnostic products, comprised of instruments, consumables, and rapid assay test kits; Veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic and consulting services; Practice management and diagnostic imaging systems and services used by veterinarians; Health monitoring, biological materials testing, laboratory diagnostic instruments, and services used by the biomedical research community; Diagnostic, health-monitoring products for livestock, poultry, and dairy; Products that test water for certain microbiological contaminants; and Point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers used in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market. Our purpose guides our strategy: to be a great company that creates exceptional long-term value for our customers, employees, and stockholders by enhancing the health and well-being of pets, people, and livestock. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS BY SEGMENT We operate primarily through three business segments: Companion Animal Group ( CAG ) - Diagnostic and information management-based products and services for the veterinary market. Water quality products ( Water ) - Design, development, manufacture, and distribution of products used in the detection of various microbiological parameters in water. Livestock, Poultry and Dairy ( LPD ) - Diagnostic products and services for livestock and poultry health and to ensure the quality and safety of milk and food, and improve producer efficiency. Our Other operating segment combines and presents products for the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market ( OPTI Medical ) with our out-licensing arrangements because they do not meet the quantitative or qualitative thresholds for reportable segments. The performance of our business is particularly subject to various risks that are associated with doing business internationally. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , sales of products and services to customers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 38 % of our overall revenue. See Part I,