Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 22 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 Item 6. [Reserved] 24 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 35 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 37 Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 37 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34 ) 38 Consolidated Statements of Income 41 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 42 Consolidated Balance Sheets 43 Consolidated Statements of Equity 44 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 45 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 46 Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies 46 Note 2. Acquisitions and Divestitures 51 Note 3. Collaborative Investments 60 Note 4. Balance Sheet Components 61 Note 5. Revenue 62 Note 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 64 Note 7. Borrowings 66 Note 8. Fair Value Measurements 68 Note 9. Leases 68 Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies 71 Note 11. Share Repurchases 71 Note 12. Income Taxes 71 Note 13. Business Segments and Geographic Information 74 Note 14. Restructuring Expenses and Asset Impairments 77 Note 15. Share-Based Compensation 78 Note 16. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 83 Note 17. Retirement Benefits 84 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B. Other Information 91 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 91 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 Item 11. Executive Compensation 92 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 92 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 92 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 93 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 93 Signatures 97 Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements may relate to, among other things, the Company s full year 2024 focus and the assumptions underlying these expectations, plant and equipment capacity for future growth, the duration of supply chain challenges, anticipated future acquisition behavior and capital deployment, expectations regarding customer destocking efforts and future order stabilization and lead time, expectations regarding market sector contraction, recovery, stabilization or growth, availability of cash and financing alternatives and the anticipated benefits of the Company s recent acquisitions, and are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipates, estimates, plans, guidance, expects, projects, forecasts, should, could, will, management believes, the Company believes, the Company intends and similar words or phrases. These statements are subject to inherent uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the date of this report. The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: levels of industrial activity and economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries around the world, including uncertainties in the financial markets and adverse developments affecting the financial services industry; pricing pressures, including inflation and rising interest rates, and other competitive factors and levels of capital spending in certain industries, all of which could have a material impact on order rates and the Company s results; the impact of catastrophic weather events, natural disasters and public health threats; economic and political consequences resulting from terrorist attacks and wars, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's business by creating disruptions in the global supply chain and by potentially having an adverse impact on the global economy; the Company s ability to make acquisitions and to integrate and operate acquired businesses on a profitable basis; cybersecurity incident; the relationship of the U.S. dollar to other currencies and its impact on pricing and cost competitiveness; political and economic conditions in foreign countries in which the Company operates; developments with respect to trade policy and tariffs; interest rates; capacity utilization and the effect this has on costs; labor markets; supply chain conditions; market conditions and material costs; risks related to environmental, social and corporate governance issues, including those related to climate change and sustainability; and developments with respect to contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, and the other risk factors discussed in Item 1A , Risk Factors of this annual report. The forward-looking statements included here are only made as of the date of this report, and management undertakes no obligation to publicly update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by law. Investors are cautioned not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented here. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Overview IDEX Corporation ( IDEX or the Company ) is an applied solutions provider serving niche markets worldwide. IDEX is a high-performing global enterprise committed to making trusted solutions that improve lives and are mission critical components in everyday life. Substantially all of the Company s business activities are carried out through over 50 wholly-owned subsidiaries with shared values of Trust, Team and Excellence. IDEX s diverse family of businesses is innovative and inquisitive in its quest to solve customers most challenging applied technology problems. These businesses operate with a high degree of autonomy, yet are all united by employing The IDEX Difference, a philosophy of great teams who embrace the 80/20 principle while remaining hyper-focused on serving customers. IDEX was incorporated in Delaware on September 24, 1987. End Markets and Products The following table summarizes the percentage of total IDEX sales generated by each end market: The Company has three reportable segments: Fluid Metering Technologies ( FMT ), Health Science Technologies ( HST ) and Fire Safety/Diversified Products ( FSDP ). The segments are structured around how to best serve customer needs, with each segment consisting of businesses that have product and end market similarities as well as common distribution methods and production processes. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns IDEX s operations with its focus on organic growth, strategic acquisitions and capital allocation priorities and provides transparency about the Company s performance to external stakeholders. 1 Table of Contents IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its products and services. The Company also believes that its strong financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products coupled with its ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions. The table below illustrates the three reportable segments and the reporting units within each segment. FMT HST FSDP Pumps Scientific Fluidics Optics Fire Safety Water Sealing Solutions Dispensing Energy Performance Pneumatic Technologies BAND-IT Valves Material Processing Technologies Agriculture The table below illustrates the share of Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA contributed by each segment on the basis of total segments (not total Company) for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Year Ended December 31, 2023 Year Ended December 31, 2022 FMT HST FSDP FMT HST FSDP Net sales 38% 40% 22% 37% 42% 21% Adjusted EBITDA (1) 42% 37% 21% 39% 42% 19% (1) Segment Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impact of unallocated corporate costs of $84.6 million and $85.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 2 Table of Contents FLUID METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The FMT segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, valves, small volume provers, flow meters, injectors and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the food, chemical, general industrial, water and wastewater, agriculture and energy industries. The following table summarizes the percentage of total FMT sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FMT segment: Pumps. Pumps is a leading manufacturer of rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered original equipment manufacturer pumps, strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Pumps primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Pumps is comprised of the following businesses: Viking Pump is a global leader in pumping solutions, with products including internal gear, external gear, vane, lobe and circumferential piston pumps, as well as parts, kits and accessories designed to support customers worldwide. With a focus on industrial applications like chemicals, polyurethane foam and asphalt; energy applications like oil transfer and glycol dehydration; and hygienic applications like biopharma, food and beverage, Viking Pump delivers proven liquid transfer pumping solutions for a wide variety of thin to viscous applications. Viking Pump maintains operations in Cedar Falls, Iowa, with locations in Windsor, Canada (Viking Pump Canada), Shannon, Ireland (IDEX Pump Technologies) and Eastbourne, England (Viking Pump Hygienic). Warren Rupp manufactures air-operated double diaphragm pump products (which includes Sandpiper and Versamatic products) used for abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is not available or should not be used. Warren Rupp products primarily serve the chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities, oil and gas, mining and industrial maintenance markets. Warren Rupp maintains operations in Mansfield, Ohio. ABEL designs and manufactures highly engineered reciprocating positive displacement pumps used for mine dewatering, back filling, transfer of mine tailings, municipal sledge and wastewater applications in a variety of end markets including mining, power, water and wastewater as well as other general industries. ABEL maintains operations in B chen, Germany and Mansfield, Ohio and has a facility in Madrid, Spain. 3 Table of Contents Water. Water is a leading provider of metering technology, flow monitoring products and underground surveillance services for wastewater markets, as well as alloy and non-metallic gear pumps and peristaltic pumps. Water is comprised of the following businesses: ADS products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of wastewater collection systems, including the maintenance and construction of such systems. ADS maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama and various other locations in the United States, Canada and Australia. iPEK, Envirosight and WinCan combined are the leading providers of integrated solutions for managing the complete lifecycle of water infrastructure assets and process workflows. Their products and solutions include sewer crawlers, inspection and monitoring systems and software applications that allow teams to identify, anticipate and correct water system issues, automate and simplify inspection processes, improve infrastructure asset management and support distributed teams and cloud-based collaboration. MyTana and Pipeline Renewal Technologies design and build products used to clean and repair infrastructure in the sewer and drain industry. iPEK maintains operations in Hirschegg, Austria and Sulzberg, Germany. Envirosight and Pipeline Renewal Technologies maintain operations in Randolph, New Jersey and Callery, Pennsylvania. WinCan has development centers in Murten, Switzerland and Krakow, Poland. MyTana maintains operations in St. Paul, Minnesota. All entities have various sales and service outlets across the United States and Europe. Trebor is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in the manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Trebor maintains operations in West Jordan, Utah. Pulsafeeder products are used to introduce precise amounts of fluids into processes to manage water quality and chemical composition. Its markets include industrial and municipal water and wastewater treatment, oil and gas, power generation, chemical and hydrocarbon processing and swimming pools. Pulsafeeder serves these markets by producing hydraulic and mechanical diaphragm pumps, rotary pumps, peristaltic pumps and controllers. Pulsafeeder maintains operations in Rochester, New York and Punta Gorda, Florida. Energy. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, small volume provers, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors and terminal automation control systems. Energy is comprised of the following businesses: Advanced Flow Solutions ( AFS ) consists of the Company s Corken, Liquid Controls and SAMPI businesses. Products for Liquid Controls and SAMPI consist of positive displacement flow meters as well as electronic registration and control products, including mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling and industrial metering and dispensing of refined liquids and gases. Corken products consist of positive displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors in the oil, gas and industrial markets. AFS maintains operations in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken and Liquid Controls products) and Altopascio, Italy (SAMPI products). Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to control and manage inventories as well as transactional data and invoicing to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Toptech maintains operations in Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrecht, Belgium. Flow MD engineers and manufactures small volume provers that ensure custody transfer accuracy in the oil and gas market. Flow MD maintains operations in Phoenix, Arizona. Valves. Valves is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty valve products for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, energy and sanitary markets as well as a leading producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids. Valves is comprised of the following businesses: Richter and Aegis produce superior solutions for demanding and complex pump and valve applications in the process industry as well as specialty chemical processing valves for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, pharmaceutical, energy and battery industries. Richter and Aegis maintain operations in Kempen, Germany; Suzhou, China; Vadodara, India and Geismar, Louisiana. Alfa Valvole and OBL manufacture specialty valve products used in various industrial fields for fluid control, in both gas and liquid form, in all sectors of plant engineering, cosmetics, detergents, food industry, electric energy, pharmaceutical, chemical plants, petrochemical plants, oil, heating/air conditioning and also on ships, ferries and marine oil platforms. Alfa Valvole and OBL maintain operations in Cassorezzo, Italy. 4 Table of Contents Agriculture. Agriculture consists of the following businesses: Banjo is a provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Its products are used in agricultural and industrial applications. Banjo maintains operations in Crawfordsville, Indiana and has distribution facilities in Didam, the Netherlands and Valinhos, Brazil. KZValve is a leading manufacturer of electric valves and controllers used primarily in agricultural applications. KZValve maintains operations in Greenwood, Nebraska. HEALTH SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The HST segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, positive displacement pumps, powder and liquid processing technologies, drying systems, micro-precision components, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, high performance molded and extruded sealing components, custom mechanical and shaft seals, engineered hygienic mixers and valves, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors and blowers, optical components and coatings, laboratory and commercial equipment and precision photonic solutions. The following table summarizes the percentage of total HST sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the HST segment: Scientific Fluidics Optics. Scientific Fluidics Optics is a global authority in life science fluidics, optics, microfluidics and photonics and the movement of liquids and gases in critical applications, offering a diverse set of technologies, expertise, capabilities and product solutions across numerous market segments. Scientific Fluidics Optics is comprised of the following businesses: IDEX Health Science ( IH S ) consists of IH S Life Science Fluidics, IH S Life Science Optics and IH S Microfluidics. The IH S Life Science Fluidics technology and product portfolio consists of column hardware, degassers, fluidic connections, fluidic manifolds, pumps and pump components, sensors, refractive index detectors, valves and fluidics sub-systems. The IH S Life Science Optics technology and product portfolio consists of illumination light engines, optical filters, optical subsystems, sensors, cameras and camera imaging objectives. IH S Microfluidics includes thinXXS Microtechnology, a global leader in developing and producing microfluidic systems, components and consumables serving the point of care diagnostic and digital polymerase chain reaction markets. IH S serves the life science optics, chromatography, mass spectrometry, in-vitro diagnostics/biotech fluidics and fluidic connections markets. IH S maintains operations in Bristol, Connecticut; Carlsbad, California; Middleboro, 5 Table of Contents Massachusetts; Oak Harbor, Washington; Rochester, New York; Rohnert Park, California; Zweibruken, Germany and Saitama, Japan. IDEX Optical Technologies consists of Advanced Thin Films, CVI Laser Optics, CVI Infrared Optics and Iridian Spectral Technologies. The technology and product portfolio consists of polarization optics, windows, optical filters, beamsplitters, lenses, waveplates, monolithic, optics, lens assemblies, imaging assemblies, shutters optical subsystems and detector integration. IDEX Optical Technologies serves the semiconductor metrology, satellite optical communications, defense, aerospace and remote sensing, additive manufacturing, laser material processing, laser communications, telecommunications and life science markets. The businesses maintain operations in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Boulder, Colorado; Didam, the Netherlands; Whetstone, England; and Ottawa, Canada. Muon Group manufactures highly precise flow paths in a variety of materials that enable the movement of various liquids and gases in critical applications within the medical, semiconductor, food processing, digital printing and filtration markets. The group includes LouwersHanique, Veco, Millux, Tecan and Atul, which have critical technical expertise in precision and tolerances for different materials, from metals and glass to plastics and ceramics. The business maintains operations in Hapert, the Netherlands; Eerbeek, the Netherlands; Wijchen, the Netherlands; Dorset, England; and Pune, India. STC Material Solutions specializes in the design and manufacturing of technical ceramics and hermetic sealing products in mission critical applications within the semiconductor, aerospace and defense, industrial technology, medical technology and energy markets. The business maintains operations in St. Albans, Vermont, with additional operations in Santa Ana, California. Sealing Solutions. Sealing Solutions focuses on providing special seals and related products and solutions in diversified markets. Sealing Solutions is comprised of the following businesses: Precision Polymer Engineering is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor, process technologies, oil and gas, pharmaceutical, electronics and food applications. Precision Polymer Engineering maintains operations in Blackburn, England and has an additional manufacturing facility in Brenham, Texas. Precision Polymer Engineering also entered into a joint venture with a third party to manufacture and sell high performance elastomer seals for the oil and gas industry to customers within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as well as export these high performance elastomer seals outside of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The joint venture maintains operations in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. FTL Seals Technology maintains operations in Leeds, England and specializes in the design and application of high integrity rotary seals, specialty bearings and other custom products for the mining, power generation and marine markets. SFC Koenig is a producer of highly engineered expanders and check valves for critical applications across the transportation, hydraulic, aviation and medical markets. SFC Koenig maintains operations in Dietikon, Switzerland and has additional facilities in North Haven, Connecticut; Illerrieden, Germany and Suzhou, China. The Roplan businesses are global manufacturers of custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment. Roplan maintains operations in Sweden and also has operations in Ningbo, China; Berkshire, England and Madison, Wisconsin. Performance Pneumatic Technologies. Performance Pneumatic Technologies provides specialized, high-performing air moving technologies across a wide array of industries. Performance Pneumatic Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: Gast is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, with a core technology around fractional horsepower (under 1 hp) air compressors, vacuum pumps and air motors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure and primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts and industrial manufacturing markets. Gast maintains operations in Benton Harbor, Michigan and has a logistics and commercial center in Redditch, England. Airtech designs and manufactures a wide range of highly-engineered pressure technology products, with a core technology around high performance blowers (2 hp and above) and pneumatic valves for a variety of end markets, including alternative energy, food processing, medical, packaging and transportation. Airtech maintains operations in Rutherford, New Jersey and has other manufacturing operations in Linthicum Heights, Maryland; Wilmington, North Carolina; Werneck, Germany and Shenzhen, China. 6 Table of Contents Material Processing Technologies. Material Processing Technologies provides process equipment and global support service solutions that meet customer specific requirements with a focus in the pharmaceutical, food, battery and chemical markets. Material Processing Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: IDEX MPT, Inc., which includes Quadro, Steridose, Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics, and Matcon, maintains operations in Waterloo, Canada; Westwood, Massachusetts; Delran, New Jersey; Evesham, England; Ahmedebad, India and Shanghai, China. Quadro is a leading provider of powder processing solutions for the pharmaceutical, food, personal care and chemical markets. Quadro s core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and special handling of liquid and solid particulates for laboratories, through the pilot phase to full scale up with production scale processing. Steridose is a leading designer and manufacturer of magnetic coupled mixers and diaphragm valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry. Fitzpatrick is a global leader in the design and manufacture of process technologies for the pharmaceutical and chemical sectors. Fitzpatrick designs and manufactures customized size reduction and roll compaction systems to support their customers product development and manufacturing processes. Microfluidics is a global leader in the design and manufacture of laboratory and production equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials for the pharmaceutical, biologics, personal care and chemical markets. Microfluidics is the exclusive producer of the Microfluidizer family of high shear fluid processors for uniform nano-emulsion formation, lipid nanoparticle creation, robust cell disruption and particle size reduction. Matcon is a global leader in creating flexible material processing solutions for high value powders used in the manufacture of foods, pharmaceuticals, batteries, plastics and fine chemicals. Matcon s innovative products consist of the original cone valve powder discharge system and filling, mixing and packaging systems, all of which support its customers automation and process requirements. These products are critical to its customers need to maintain clean, reliable and repeatable formulations of prepackaged foods and pharmaceuticals while helping them achieve lean and agile manufacturing. 7 Table of Contents FIRE SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT The FSDP segment designs, produces and distributes firefighting pumps, valves and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry; engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications; and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses. The following table summarizes the percentage of total FSDP sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FSDP segment: Fire Safety. Fire businesses produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel and brass valves, monitors, nozzles, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems and mechanical components for the fire and specialty vehicle markets. Safety businesses produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control and jumping cushions for building rescue for the rescue market. Fire Safety s customers are original equipment manufacturers as well as public and private fire and rescue organizations. Fire Safety maintains operations in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and Hale products); Warwick, England (Godiva products); Wooster and Columbus, Ohio (Akron Brass and Weldon products); Ballendorf, Germany (AWG Fittings products); Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst Jaws of Life products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products) and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Dispensing. Dispensing businesses produce precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing is a global supplier of such equipment focused on the architectural paints segment used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers and paint and specialized stores as well as in some industrial settings. Dispensing maintains operations in Sassenheim, the Netherlands; Wheeling, Illinois and Sandani, India as well as multiple sales offices around the world. BAND-IT. BAND-IT is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT brand is highly recognized worldwide. BAND-IT products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, airbags, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. BAND-IT products primarily serve the automotive, aerospace, energy, 8 Table of Contents utility, municipal, cable management and general industrial markets. BAND-IT maintains operations in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, England. INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS Competitors The Company s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, design and en