Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 19 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. [Reserved] 21 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 32 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34 ) 33 Consolidated Balance Sheets 37 Consolidated Statements of Income 38 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 39 Consolidated Statements of Equity 40 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 41 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 42 Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies 42 Note 2. Acquisitions and Divestitures 46 Note 3. Collaborative Investments 51 Note 4. Balance Sheet Components 51 Note 5. Revenue 53 Note 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 55 Note 7. Borrowings 57 Note 8. Derivative Instruments 60 Note 9. Fair Value Measurements 60 Note 10. Leases 61 Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies 64 Note 12. Common and Preferred Stock 64 Note 13. Income Taxes 64 Note 14. Business Segments and Geographic Information 67 Note 15. Restructuring Expenses and Asset Impairments 70 Note 16. Share-Based Compensation 71 Note 17. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 76 Note 18. Retirement Benefits 76 Note 19. Subsequent Events 83 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 84 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 84 Item 9B. Other Information 84 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 85 Item 11. Executive Compensation 85 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 85 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 85 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 85 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 86 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 91 Signatures 91 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements may relate to, among other things, the Company s expected organic sales growth and expected earnings per share, and the assumptions underlying these expectations, plant and equipment capacity for future growth and the anticipated timing and effects of planned facility expansion, the duration of supply chain challenges, anticipated future acquisition behavior and capital deployment, availability of cash and financing alternatives, the anticipated timing of the closing of the Company s acquisition of Nexsight, LLC and its businesses Envirosight, WinCan, MyTana and Pipeline Renewal Technologies ( Nexsight ) and the anticipated benefits of the Company s acquisitions of ABEL Pumps, L.P. and certain of its affiliates ( ABEL ), Airtech Group, Inc., US Valve Corporation and related entities ( Airtech ) and Nexsight, and are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipates, estimates, plans, guidance, expects, projects, forecasts, should, could, will, management believes, the Company believes, the Company intends and similar words or phrases. These statements are subject to inherent uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the date of this report. The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and the continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the emergence of variant strains, on the Company s ability to operate its business and facilities, on its customers, on supply chains and on the U.S. and global economy generally; economic and political consequences resulting from terrorist attacks and wars; levels of industrial activity and economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries around the world; pricing pressures and other competitive factors and levels of capital spending in certain industries, all of which could have a material impact on order rates and the Company s results; the Company s ability to make acquisitions and to integrate and operate acquired businesses on a profitable basis; the relationship of the U.S. dollar to other currencies and its impact on pricing and cost competitiveness; political and economic conditions in foreign countries in which the Company operates; developments with respect to trade policy and tariffs; interest rates; capacity utilization and the effect this has on costs; labor markets; supply chain backlogs, including risks affecting component availability, labor inefficiencies and freight logistical challenges; market conditions and material costs; and developments with respect to contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, and the other risk factors discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this annual report. The forward-looking statements included here are only made as of the date of this report, and management undertakes no obligation to publicly update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by law. Investors are cautioned not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented here. Item 1. Business. Overview IDEX Corporation ( IDEX or the Company ) was incorporated in Delaware on September 24, 1987 and is an applied solutions provider serving niche markets worldwide. IDEX is a high-performing, global enterprise committed to making trusted solutions that improve lives and are mission critical components in everyday life. Substantially all of the Company s business activities are carried out through over 40 wholly-owned subsidiaries with shared values of trust, team and excellence. IDEX s diverse family of businesses is innovative and inquisitive in its quest to solve customers most challenging applied technology problems. These businesses operate with a high degree of autonomy, yet are all united by employing The IDEX Difference, a philosophy of great teams who embrace the 80/20 principle while remaining hyper-focused on serving customers. 1 Table of Contents End Markets and Products The following table summarizes the percentage of total IDEX sales generated by each end market: The Company has three reportable segments: Fluid Metering Technologies ( FMT ), Health Science Technologies ( HST ) and Fire Safety/Diversified Products ( FSDP ). The segments are structured around how to best serve customer needs, with each segment consisting of businesses that have product and end market similarities as well as common distribution methods and production processes. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns IDEX s operations with its focus on organic growth, strategic acquisitions and capital allocation priorities and provides transparency about the Company s performance to external stakeholders. Within its three reportable segments, the Company maintains 13 reporting units. IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its products and services. The Company also believes that its strong financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products coupled with its ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions. The table below illustrates the three reportable segments and the reporting units within each segment. FMT HST FSDP Pumps Scientific Fluidics Optics Fire Safety Water Sealing Solutions Dispensing Energy Performance Pneumatic Technologies BAND-IT Valves Material Processing Technologies Agriculture Micropump 2 Table of Contents The table below illustrates the percentages of the share of sales and operating income contributed by each segment on the basis of total segments (not total Company) for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Year Ended December 31, 2020 FMT HST FSDP IDEX FMT HST FSDP IDEX Sales 36% 41% 23% 100% 38% 38% 24% 100% Operating income (1) 36% 40% 24% 100% 40% 35% 25% 100% (1) Segment operating income excludes unallocated corporate operating expenses of $80.5 million and $64.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. FLUID METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The FMT segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, valves, small volume provers, flow meters, injectors and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the food, chemical, general industrial, water and wastewater, agriculture and energy industries. FMT application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure (fossil fuels, refined and alternative fuels and water and wastewater), energy, chemical processing, agriculture, food and beverage, semiconductor, pulp and paper, automotive/transportation, plastics and resins, electronics and electrical, construction and mining, pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical, machinery and numerous other specialty niche markets. The following table summarizes the percentage of total FMT sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FMT segment: Pumps. Pumps is a leading manufacturer of rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered OEM pumps, strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Pumps primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Pumps is comprised of the following businesses: Viking Pump s products consist of external gear pumps, strainers and reducers and related controls used for transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under the Viking Pump and Wright Flow brands. Viking Pump products primarily serve the chemical, petroleum, pulp and paper, plastics, paints, inks, tanker trucks, compressor, 3 Table of Contents construction, food and beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech markets. Viking Pump maintains operations in Cedar Falls, Iowa (Viking Pump and Wright Flow products); Eastbourne, England (Wright Flow products); Shannon, Ireland (Viking Pump products) and Windsor, Ontario (Viking Pump products). Warren Rupp manufactures air-operated double diaphragm pumps products (which include Versa-Matic products) used for abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is not available or should not be used. Warren Rupp products primarily serve the chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities, oil and gas, mining and industrial maintenance markets. Warren Rupp maintains operations in Mansfield, Ohio. ABEL designs and manufactures highly engineered reciprocating positive displacement pumps for a variety of end markets including mining, marine, power, water, wastewater and other general industries. ABEL maintains operations in B chen, Germany and Mansfield, Ohio and has a facility in Madrid, Spain. Water. Water is a leading provider of metering technology, flow monitoring products and underground surveillance services for wastewater markets, alloy and non-metallic gear pumps, peristaltic pumps, transfer pumps and dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial dishwashing and chemical metering. Water is comprised of the following businesses: ADS products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of wastewater collection systems, including the maintenance and construction of such systems. ADS maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama and various other locations in the United States, Canada and Australia. iPEK supplies remote controlled systems used for infrastructure inspection. iPEK maintains operations in Hirschegg, Austria and Sulzberg, Germany. Knight is a leading manufacturer of pumps and dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial dishwashing and chemical metering. Knight maintains operations in Irvine, California and a maquiladora in Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico. Trebor is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in the manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Trebor maintains operations in West Jordan, Utah. Pulsafeeder products are used to introduce precise amounts of fluids into processes to manage water quality and chemical composition as well as peristaltic pumps. Its markets include water and wastewater treatment, oil and gas, power generation, pulp and paper, chemical and hydrocarbon processing and swimming pools. Pulsafeeder maintains operations in Rochester, New York and Punta Gorda, Florida. Energy. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, small volume provers, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors and terminal automation control systems. Energy is comprised of the following businesses: Advanced Flow Solutions ( AFS ) consists of the Company s Corken, Liquid Controls and SAMPI businesses. Applications for Liquid Controls and SAMPI consist of positive displacement flow meters and electronic registration and control products, including mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling and industrial metering and dispensing of liquids and gases. Corken products consist of positive-displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors. AFS maintains operations in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken and Liquid Controls products) and Altopascio, Italy (SAMPI products). Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to control and manage inventories as well as transactional data and invoicing to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Toptech maintains operations in Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrecht, Belgium. Flow MD engineers and manufactures small volume provers that ensure custody transfer accuracy in the oil and gas industry. Flow MD maintains operations in Phoenix, Arizona. Valves. Valves is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty valve products for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, energy and sanitary markets as well as a leading producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids. Valves is comprised of the following businesses: Alfa Valvole and OBL manufacture products used in various industrial fields for fluid control, in both gas and liquid form, in all sectors of plant engineering, cosmetics, detergents, food industry, electric energy, pharmaceutical, 4 Table of Contents chemical plants, petrochemical plants, oil, heating/air conditioning and also on ships, ferries and marine oil platforms. Alfa Valvole and OBL maintain operations in Cassorezzo, Italy. Richter s products offer superior solutions for demanding and complex pump and valve applications in the process industry. Richter maintains operations in Cedar Falls, Iowa; Kempen, Germany and Suzhou, China. Aegis produces specialty chemical processing valves for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, chlor-alkali and pulp and paper industries. Aegis maintains operations in Geismar, Louisiana. Agriculture. Agriculture consists of the Company s Banjo business. Banjo is a provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Its products are used in agriculture (approximately 70% of revenue) and industrial (approximately 30% of revenue) applications. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana with distribution facilities in Didam, The Netherlands and Valinhos, Brazil. HEALTH SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The HST segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, high performance molded and extruded sealing components, custom mechanical and shaft seals, engineered hygienic mixers and valves, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors and blowers, optical components and coatings, laboratory and commercial equipment, precision photonic solutions and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies. HST serves a variety of end markets, including food and beverage, life sciences, analytical instruments, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical, industrial, semiconductor, automotive/transportation, medical/dental, energy, cosmetics, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment, research and aerospace/defense markets. The following table summarizes the percentage of total HST sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the HST segment: Scientific Fluidics Optics. Scientific Fluidics Optics is a global authority in life science fluidics, optics, microfluidics and photonics, offering a diverse set of technologies, expertise, capabilities and product solutions across numerous market segments. Scientific Fluidics Optics is comprised of the following businesses: IDEX Health Science ( IH S ) consists of IH S Fluidics and IH S Life Science Optics. The IH S Fluidics technology and product portfolio consists of column hardware, degassers, fluidic connections, fluidic manifolds, 5 Table of Contents pumps and pump components, sensors, refractive index detectors, valves and fluidics sub-systems. The IH S Life Science Optics technology and product portfolio consists of illumination light engines, optical filters, optical subsystems, sensors, cameras and camera imaging objectives. IH S serves the life science optics, chromatography, mass spectrometry, in-vitro diagnostics/biotech fluidics and fluidic connections markets. IH S maintains operations in Bristol, Connecticut; Carlsbad, California; Lima, New York; Middleboro, Massachusetts; Oak Harbor, Washington; Rochester, New York; Rohnert Park, California; Saitama, Japan; Shanghai, China and Beijing, China. IDEX Optical Technologies consists of Advanced Thin Films, CVI Laser Optics and CVI Infrared Optics. The technology and product portfolio consists of polarization optics, windows, optical filters, beamsplitters, lenses, waveplates, monolithic, optics, lens assemblies, imaging assemblies, shutters optical subsystems and detector integration. IDEX Optical Technologies serves the semiconductor metrology, satellite optical communications, defense, aerospace and remote sensing, additive manufacturing and laser material processing markets. The businesses maintain operations in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Boulder, Colorado; Didam, The Netherlands; and Whetstone Leicester, United Kingdom. Microfluidics includes thinXXS Microtechnology, a global leader in developing and producing microfluidic systems, components and consumables serving the point of care diagnostic and digital polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) markets. The business maintains operations in Zweibruken, Germany. Sealing Solutions. Sealing Solutions focuses on providing special seals and related products and solutions in diversified markets. Sealing Solutions is comprised of the following businesses: Precision Polymer Engineering is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor, process technologies, oil and gas, pharmaceutical, electronics and food applications. Precision Polymer Engineering is headquartered in Blackburn, England and has an additional manufacturing facility in Brenham, Texas. Precision Polymer Engineering also entered into a joint venture with a third party to manufacture and sell high performance elastomer seals for the oil and gas industry to customers within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as well as export these high performance elastomer seals outside of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The joint venture is headquartered in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. FTL Seals Technology is located in Leeds, England and specializes in the design and application of high integrity rotary seals, specialty bearings and other custom products for the mining, power generation and marine markets. Novotema is located in Villongo, Italy and is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty sealing solutions for use in the building products, gas control, transportation, industrial and water markets. SFC Koenig is a producer of highly engineered expanders and check valves for critical applications across the transportation, hydraulic, aviation and medical markets. SFC Koenig is based in Dietikon, Switzerland and has additional facilities in North Haven, Connecticut; Illerrieden, Germany and Suzhou, China. Velcora and its operating subsidiaries under the Roplan name are global manufacturers of custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment. Velcora is headquartered in Sweden and has operations in Ningbo, China; Berkshire, England and Madison, Wisconsin. Performance Pneumatic Technologies. Performance Pneumatic Technologies provides specialized, high-performing air moving technologies across a wide array of industries. This reporting unit was previously named Gast and was renamed Performance Pneumatic Technologies upon the acquisition of Airtech in June 2021. Performance Pneumatic Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: Gast is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, with a core technology around fractional horsepower (under 1 hp) air compressors, vacuum pumps and air motors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure and primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts and industrial manufacturing markets. Gast is based in Benton Harbor, Michigan and has a logistics and commercial center in Redditch, England. Airtech designs and manufactures a wide range of highly-engineered pressure technology products, with a core technology around high performance blowers (2 hp and above) and pneumatic valves for a variety of end markets, including alternative energy, food processing, medical, packaging and transportation. Airtech is headquartered in Rutherford, New Jersey and has other manufacturing operations in Linthicum Heights, Maryland, Wilmington, North Carolina, Werneck, Germany and Shenzhen, China. 6 Table of Contents Material Processing Technologies. Material Processing Technologies provides process equipment and global support service solutions that meet customer specific requirements with a focus in the pharmaceutical, food and chemical markets. Material Processing Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: IDEX MPT, Inc., which includes Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics, Quadro and Steridose, is based in Waterloo, Canada and also has an office in Westwood, Massachusetts. Quadro is a leading provider of powder processing solutions for the pharmaceutical and food markets. Quadro s core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and special handling of liquid and solid particulates for laboratory, pilot phase and production scale processing. Steridose develops engineered hygienic mixers and valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry. Fitzpatrick is a global leader in the design and manufacture of process technologies for the pharmaceutical, food and personal care markets. Fitzpatrick designs and manufactures customized size reduction, and roll compaction systems to support their customers product development and manufacturing processes. Microfluidics is a global leader in the design and manufacture of laboratory and production equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials for the pharmaceutical, biologics and vaccine markets. Microfluidics is the exclusive producer of the Microfluidizer family of high shear fluid processors for uniform nano-emulsion formation, Lipid nanoparticle creation, robust cell disruption and particle size reduction. Matcon is located in Evesham, England and is a global leader in material processing solutions for high value powders used in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, food, plastics and fine chemicals. Matcon s innovative products consist of the original cone valve powder discharge system and filling, mixing and packaging systems, all of which support its customers automation and process requirements. These products are critical to its customers need to maintain clean, reliable and repeatable formulations of prepackaged foods and pharmaceuticals while helping them achieve lean and agile manufacturing. Micropump. Headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, Micropump is a leader in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications. Micropump products primarily serve the continuous ink-jet printing, medical equipment, chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical process controllers and sample preparation systems markets. FIRE SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT The FSDP segment designs, produces and distributes firefighting pumps, valves and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications in the automotive, energy and industrial markets and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses in the paint and industrial markets around the world. 7 Table of Contents The following table below summarizes the percentage of total FSDP sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FSDP segment: Fire Safety. Fire Safety businesses produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel and brass valves, monitors, nozzles, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems, mechanical components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets, hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control and jumping cushions for building rescue. Fire Safety s customers are original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) as well as public and private fire and rescue organizations. Fire Safety maintains facilities in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and Hale products); Warwick, England (Godiva products); Wooster and Columbus, Ohio (Akron Brass and Weldon products); Ballendorf, Germany (AWG Fittings products); Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst Jaws of Life products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products) and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Dispensing. Dispensing businesses produce precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing is a global supplier of such equipment focused on the architectural paints segment used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers and paint and specialized stores as well as in some industrial settings. Dispensing maintains facilities in Sassenheim, The Netherlands and Wheeling, Illinois as well as multiple sales offices around the world. BAND-IT. BAND-IT is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT brand is highly recognized worldwide. BAND-IT products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, airbags, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. BAND-IT products primarily serve the automotive, aerospace, energy, utility, municipal, cable management and general industrial markets. BAND-IT is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, England. 8 Table of Contents INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS Competitors The Company s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery and effectiveness of the Company s distribution channels. Principal competitors of the FMT segment are the Pumps Group (Maag, Blackmer and Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquefied petroleum gas distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps a