Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2. Properties 14 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 14 PART II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 15 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 17 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 18 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 25 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 27 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 79 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 79 Item 9B. Other Information 79 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 80 Item 11. Executive Compensation 80 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 80 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 80 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 80 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 81 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 82 Signatures 83 Table of Contents PART I Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements may relate to, among other things, capital expenditures, acquisitions, cost reductions, cash flow, cash requirements, revenues, earnings, market conditions, global economies, the anticipated timing of our acquisition of Flow Management Devices, LLC, plant and equipment capacity and operating improvements, and are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipates, estimates, plans, expects, projects, forecasts, should, could, will, management believes, the Company believes, the Company intends, and similar words or phrases. These statements are subject to inherent uncertainties and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated at the date of this report. The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: economic and political consequences resulting from terrorist attacks and wars; levels of industrial activity and economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries around the world; pricing pressures and other competitive factors and levels of capital spending in certain industries, all of which could have a material impact on order rates and the Company s results, particularly in light of the low levels of order backlogs it typically maintains; the Company s ability to make acquisitions and to integrate and operate acquired businesses on a profitable basis; the relationship of the U.S. dollar to other currencies and its impact on pricing and cost competitiveness; political and economic conditions in foreign countries in which the Company operates; developments with respect to trade policy and tariffs; interest rates; capacity utilization and the effect this has on costs; labor markets; market conditions and material costs; and developments with respect to contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters and the other risk factors discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this annual report. The forward-looking statements included here are only made as of the date of this report, and management undertakes no obligation to publicly update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by law. Investors are cautioned not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented here. Item 1. Business. IDEX Corporation ( IDEX, the Company, us, our, or we ) is a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 24, 1987. The Company is an applied solutions business that sells an extensive array of pumps, valves, flow meters and other fluidics systems and components and engineered products to customers in a variety of markets around the world. All of the Company s business activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company has three reportable business segments: Fluid Metering Technologies ( FMT ), Health Science Technologies ( HST ) and Fire Safety/Diversified Products ( FSDP ). Within our three reportable segments, the Company maintains 13 platforms, where we focus on organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Each of our 13 platforms is also a reporting unit that we annually test for goodwill impairment. 1 Table of Contents The FMT segment contains the Energy platform (comprised of Corken, Liquid Controls, SAMPI and Toptech), the Valves platform (comprised of Alfa Valvole, Richter and Aegis), the Water platform (comprised of Pulsafeeder, OBL, Knight, ADS, Trebor and iPEK), the Pumps platform (comprised of Viking and Warren Rupp) and the Agriculture platform (comprised of Banjo). The HST segment contains the Scientific Fluidics Optics platform (comprised of Eastern Plastics, Rheodyne, Sapphire Engineering, Upchurch Scientific, ERC, CiDRA Precision Services, thinXXS Microtechnology ( thinXXS ), CVI Melles Griot, Semrock, AT Films and Finger Lakes Instrumentation ( FLI )), the Sealing Solutions platform (comprised of Precision Polymer Engineering, FTL Seals Technology, Novotema, SFC Koenig and Velcora Holding AB ( Velcora )), the Gast platform, the Micropump platform and the Material Processing Technologies platform (comprised of Quadro, Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics and Matcon). The FSDP segment is comprised of the Fire Safety platform (comprised of Class 1, Hale, Godiva, Akron Brass, Weldon, AWG Fittings, Dinglee, Hurst Jaws of Life, Lukas and Vetter), the Band-It platform and the Dispensing platform. IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its product and service areas. The Company also believes that its strong financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products, coupled with its ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions. FLUID METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The Fluid Metering Technologies segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow meters, injectors and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the food, chemical, general industrial, water and wastewater, agriculture and energy industries. Fluid Metering Technologies application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure (fossil fuels, refined and alternative fuels and water and wastewater), chemical processing, agriculture, food and beverage, pulp and paper, transportation, plastics and resins, electronics and electrical, construction and mining, pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical, machinery and numerous other specialty niche markets. 2 Table of Contents Fluid Metering Technologies accounted for 38% of IDEX s sales in each of 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, with approximately 43% of its 2019 sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for 44% , 42% and 42% of total segment operating income in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Energy. Energy consists of the Company s Corken, Liquid Controls, SAMPI and Toptech businesses. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors and terminal automation control systems. Applications for Liquid Controls and SAMPI consist of positive displacement flow meters and electronic registration and control products, including mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling and industrial metering and dispensing of liquids and gases. Corken products consist of positive-displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors. Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to control and manage inventories as well as transactional data and invoicing to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Energy maintains facilities in Lake Bluff, Illinois (Liquid Controls products); Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrecht, Belgium (Toptech products); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken products); and Altopascio, Italy (SAMPI products). Approximately 44% of Energy s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Valves. Valves consists of the Company s Alfa Valvole, Richter and Aegis businesses. Valves is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty valve products for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, energy and sanitary markets as well as a leading producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids. Alfa Valvole s products are used in various industrial fields for fluid control, in both gas and liquid form, in all sectors of plant engineering, cosmetics, detergents, food industry, electric energy, pharmaceutical, chemical plants, petrochemical plants, oil, heating/air conditioning and also on ships, ferries and marine oil platforms. Richter s products offer superior solutions for demanding and complex pump and valve applications in the process industry. Aegis produces specialty chemical processing valves for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, chlor-alkali and pulp and paper industries. Valves maintains operations in Casorezzo, Italy (Alfa Valvole products); Cedar Falls, Iowa, Kempen, Germany and Suzhou, China (Richter products); and Geismar, Louisiana (Aegis products). Approximately 78% of Valves 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Water. Water consists of the Company s ADS, iPEK, Knight, Trebor, Pulsafeeder and OBL businesses. Water is a leading provider of metering technology, flow monitoring products and underground surveillance services for wastewater markets, alloy and non-metallic gear pumps, peristaltic pumps, transfer pumps as well as dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial dishwashing and chemical metering. ADS products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of wastewater collection systems, 3 Table of Contents including the maintenance and construction of such systems. iPEK supplies remote controlled systems used for infrastructure inspection. Knight is a leading manufacturer of pumps and dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial dishwashing and chemical metering. Trebor is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in the manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Pulsafeeder products (which also include OBL products) are used to introduce precise amounts of fluids into processes to manage water quality and chemical composition as well as peristaltic pumps. Its markets include water and wastewater treatment, oil and gas, power generation, pulp and paper, chemical and hydrocarbon processing and swimming pools. Water maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama and various other locations in the United States, Canada and Australia (ADS products and services); Hirschegg, Austria and Sulzberg, Germany (iPEK products); Rochester, New York, Punta Gorda, Florida, and Milan, Italy (Pulsafeeder products); West Jordan, Utah (Trebor products); Irvine, California, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, and Lewes, England (Knight products); and a maquiladora in Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico (Knight products). Approximately 44% of Water s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Pumps. Pumps consists of the Company s Viking and Warren Rupp businesses. Pumps is a leading manufacturer of rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered OEM pumps, strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Viking s products consist of external gear pumps, strainers and reducers and related controls used for transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under the Viking and Wright Flow brands. Viking products primarily serve the chemical, petroleum, pulp and paper, plastics, paints, inks, tanker trucks, compressor, construction, food and beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech markets. Warren Rupp products (which include Versa-Matic products) are used for abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is not available or should not be used. Warren Rupp products, which include air-operated double diaphragm pumps, primarily serve the chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities, oil and gas, mining and industrial maintenance markets. Pumps maintains operations in Cedar Falls, Iowa (Viking and Wright Flow products); Eastbourne, England (Wright Flow products); Shannon, Ireland (Viking and Blagdon products); and Mansfield, Ohio (Warren Rupp products). Pumps primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Approximately 37% of Pumps 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Agriculture. Agriculture consists of the Company s Banjo business. Banjo is a provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana with distribution facilities in Didam, The Netherlands and Valinhos, Brazil. Its products are used in agriculture (approximately 71% of revenue) and industrial (approximately 29% of revenue) applications. Approximately 20% of Banjo s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. HEALTH SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The Health Science Technologies segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems used in beverage, food processing, pharmaceutical and cosmetics, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, including very high precision, low-flow rate pumping solutions required in analytical instrumentation, clinical diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded and extruded sealing components, custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment, engineered hygienic mixers and valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors used in medical, dental and industrial applications, optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, biotechnology, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing, laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials, precision photonic solutions used in life sciences, research and defense markets and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting original equipment manufacturer specifications. 4 Table of Contents Health Science Technologies accounted for 37% , 36% and 36% of IDEX s sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, with approximately 55% of its 2019 sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for 31% , 32% and 32% of total segment operating income in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Scientific Fluidics Optics. Scientific Fluidics Optics consists of the Company s Eastern Plastics, Rheodyne, Sapphire Engineering, Upchurch Scientific, ERC, CiDRA Precision Services, thinXXS, CVI Melles Griot, Semrock, AT Films (including Precision Photonics products) and FLI businesses. Eastern Plastics products, which consist of high-precision integrated fluidics and associated engineered manifolds, are used in a broad set of end markets including medical diagnostics, analytical instrumentation and laboratory automation. Rheodyne products consist of injectors, valves, fittings and accessories for the analytical instrumentation market. These products are used by manufacturers of high pressure liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) equipment servicing the pharmaceutical, biotech, life science, food and beverage, and chemical markets. Sapphire Engineering and Upchurch Scientific products consist of fluidic components and systems for the analytical, biotech and diagnostic instrumentation markets, such as fittings, precision-dispensing pumps and valves, tubing and integrated tubing assemblies, filter sensors and other micro-fluidic and nano-fluidic components as well as advanced column hardware and accessories for the high performance liquid chromatography market. The products produced by Sapphire Engineering and Upchurch Scientific primarily serve the pharmaceutical, drug discovery, chemical, biochemical processing, genomics/proteomics research, environmental labs, food/agriculture, medical lab, personal care and plastics/polymer/rubber production markets. ERC manufactures gas liquid separations and detection solutions for the life science, analytical instrumentation and clinical chemistry markets. ERC s products consist of in-line membrane vacuum degassing solutions, refractive index detectors and ozone generation systems. CiDRA Precision Services products consist of microfluidic components serving the life science, health and industrial markets and thinXXS is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of microfluidic components serving the point of care, veterinary and life science markets. CVI Melles Griot is a global leader in the design and manufacture of precision photonic solutions used in the life science, research, semiconductor, security and defense markets. CVI Melles Griot s innovative products are focused on the generation, control and productive use of light for a variety of key science and industrial applications. Products consist of specialty lasers and light sources, electro-optical components, specialty shutters, opto-mechanical assemblies and components. In addition, CVI Melles Griot produces critical components for life science research, electronics manufacturing, military and other industrial applications including lenses, mirrors, filters and polarizers. These components are utilized in a number of important applications such as spectroscopy, cytometry (cell counting), guidance systems for target designation, remote sensing, menology and optical lithography. Semrock is a provider of optical filters for biotech and analytical instrumentation in the life science market. Semrock s optical filters are produced using state-of-the-art manufacturing processes which enable it to offer its customers significant improvements in instrument performance and reliability. AT Films specializes in optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. AT Films core competence is the design and manufacture of filters, splitters, reflectors and mirrors with the precise physical properties required to support their 5 Table of Contents customers most challenging and cutting-edge optical applications. The Precision Photonics portion of its business specializes in optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. FLI specializes in the design, development and production of low-noise cooled charge-coupled device ( CCD ) and high speed, high-sensitivity Scientific complementary metal-oxide semiconductor ( CMOS ) cameras for the astronomy and life sciences markets. Scientific Fluidics Optics has facilities in Bristol, Connecticut (Eastern Plastics products); Rohnert Park, California (Rheodyne products); Middleboro, Massachusetts (Sapphire Engineering products); Oak Harbor, Washington (Upchurch Scientific products); Kawaguchi, Japan (ERC products); Wallingford, Connecticut (CiDRA Precision Services products); Zweibr cken, Germany (thinXXS products); Albuquerque, New Mexico, Rochester, New York, Leicester, England and Didam, The Netherlands (CVI Melles Griot products); Rochester, New York (Semrock products); Boulder, Colorado (AT Films products); and Lima, New York (FLI products). Approximately 51% of Scientific Fluidics Optics 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Sealing Solutions. Sealing Solutions consists of the Company s Precision Polymer Engineering, FTL Seals Technology, Novotema, SFC Koenig and Velcora businesses. Precision Polymer Engineering is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor, process technologies, oil and gas, pharmaceutical, electronics and food applications. Precision Polymer Engineering is headquartered in Blackburn, England with an additional manufacturing facility in Brenham, Texas. FTL Seals Technology, located in Leeds, England, specializes in the design and application of high integrity rotary seals, specialty bearings and other custom products for the mining, power generation and marine markets. Novotema, located in Villongo, Italy, is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty sealing solutions for use in the building products, gas control, transportation, industrial and water markets. SFC Koenig is a producer of highly engineered expanders and check valves for critical applications across the transportation, hydraulic, aviation and medical markets. SFC Koenig is based in Dietikon, Switzerland, with additional facilities in North Haven, Connecticut, Illerrieden, Germany, and Suzhou, China. Velcora and its operating subsidiaries, Roplan and Steridose, are headquartered in Sweden with operations in China, the United Kingdom and the United States. Roplan is a global manufacturer of custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment. Steridose develops engineered hygienic mixers and valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry. Approximately 78% of Sealing Solutions 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Gast. The Gast business is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors, low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators, regenerative blowers and fractional horsepower compressors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure. Gast products primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts and industrial manufacturing markets. Based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a logistics and commercial center in Redditch, England. Approximately 25% of Gast s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Micropump. Micropump, headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications. Micropump products primarily serve the continuous ink-jet printing, medical equipment, chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical process controllers and sample preparation systems markets. Approximately 74% of Micropump s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Material Processing Technologies. Material Processing Technologies consists of the Company s Quadro, Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics and Matcon businesses. Quadro is a leading provider of particle control solutions for the pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical markets. Based in Waterloo, Canada, Quadro s core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and special handling of liquid and solid particulates for laboratory, pilot phase and production scale processing. Fitzpatrick is a global leader in the design and manufacture of process technologies for the pharmaceutical, food and personal care markets. Fitzpatrick designs and manufactures customized size reduction, roll compaction and drying systems to support their customers product development and manufacturing processes. Fitzpatrick is headquartered in Waterloo, Canada. Microfluidics is a global leader in the design and manufacture of laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials for the pharmaceutical and chemical markets. Microfluidics is the exclusive producer of the Microfluidizer family of high shear fluid processors for uniform particle size reduction, robust cell disruption and nanoparticle creation. Microfluidics is also based in Waterloo, Canada and has offices in Newton, Massachusetts. Matcon is a global leader in material processing solutions for high value powders used in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, food, plastics and fine chemicals. Matcon s innovative products consist of the original cone valve powder discharge system and filling, mixing and packaging systems, all of which support its customers automation and process requirements. These products are critical to its customers need to maintain clean, reliable and repeatable formulations of prepackaged foods and pharmaceuticals while helping them achieve lean and agile manufacturing. Matcon is located in Evesham, England. Approximately 61% of Material Processing Technologies 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. 6 Table of Contents FIRE SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT The Fire Safety/Diversified Products segment designs, produces and distributes firefighting pumps, valves and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. The Fire Safety/Diversified Products segment accounted for 25% , 26% and 26% of IDEX s sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, with approximately 52% of its 2019 sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for 25% , 26% and 26% of total segment operating income in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Fire Safety. Fire Safety consists of the Company s Class 1, Hale, Godiva, Akron Brass, AWG Fittings, Dinglee, Hurst Jaws of Life, Lukas and Vetter businesses, which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel valves, monitors, apparatus valves, nozzles, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems, mechanical components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets, hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control and shoring equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Fire Safety s customers are OEMs as well as public and private fire and rescue organizations. Fire Safety maintains facilities in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and Hale products); Warwick, England (Godiva products); Wooster and Columbus, Ohio (Akron Brass and Weldon products); Ballendorf, Germany (AWG Fittings products); Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst Jaws of Life products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products); and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Approximately 50% of Fire Safety s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Band-It. Band-It is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT brand is highly recognized worldwide. Band-It products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. Band-It products primarily serve the automotive, transportation equipment, oil and gas, general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical, communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine markets. Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, England. Approximately 41% of Band-It s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. 7 Table of Contents Dispensing. Dispensing produces precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing is a global supplier of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing and measuring equipment for auto refinishing and architectural paints. Dispensing products are used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers, department stores, automotive body shops as well as point-of-purchase dispensers. Dispensing maintains facilities in Sassenheim, The Netherlands, Wheeling, Illinois, Unanderra, Australia and Milan, Italy as well as IDEX shared manufacturing facilities in India and China. Approximately 67% of Dispensing s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS Competitors The Company s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, design and engineering capabilities, product development, 