ITEM 1. Business 3 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 12 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30 ITEM 1C. Cybersecurity 30 ITEM 2. Properties 32 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 32 ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 32 ITEM 6. [Reserved] 33 ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 49 ITEM 9B. Other Information 49 ITEM 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 49 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 49 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 50 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 50 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 50 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 50 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 50 ITEM 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 SIGNATURES 117 2 Table of Contents PART I In this report, we use the terms IFF, the Company, we, us and our to refer to International Flavors Fragrances Inc. and its subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. We are a leading creator and manufacturer of food, beverage, health biosciences, scent and pharma solutions and complementary adjacent products, including cosmetic active and natural health ingredients, which are used in a wide variety of consumer products. Our products are sold principally to manufacturers of dairy, meat, beverages, snacks, savory, sweet, baked goods and other foods, personal care products, soaps and detergents, cleaning products, perfumes and cosmetics, dietary supplements, food protection, infant and elderly nutrition, functional food, pharmaceutical and oral care products. As a result, we hold global leadership positions in the Food Beverage, Home Personal Care and Health Wellness markets, and across key Tastes, Textures, Scents, Nutrition, Enzymes, Cultures, Soy Proteins, Pharmaceutical Excipients and Probiotics categories. Sales in 2023 were approximately $11.479 billion. Based on 2023 sales, approximately 46% of sales were to global consumer products companies and approximately 54% of sales were to small and mid-sized companies. During 2023, our 25 largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of sales. In 2023, no customer accounted for more than 10% of sales. Our business is geographically diverse, with sales in the U.S. representing approximately 28% of sales in 2023. No other country represented more than 7% of sales. Our Product Offerings Our business currently consists of four segments: Nourish, Health Biosciences, Scent and Pharma Solutions. Nourish As a leading creator of ingredients and solutions, we help our customers deliver on the promise of healthy and delicious foods and drinks that appeal to consumers. We create products in our regional creative centers which allows us to satisfy local customer preferences, while also helping to ensure regulatory compliance and production standards. We develop thousands of different Nourish offerings, most of which are tailor-made, and we continually develop new ingredients and solutions to meet changing consumer preferences and customer needs. Our Nourish segment consists of an innovative and broad portfolio of natural-based ingredients to enhance nutritional value, texture and functionality in a wide range of beverage, dairy, bakery, confectionery and culinary applications and consists of Ingredients, Flavors and Food Designs. Ingredients include a diversified portfolio across natural and plant-based specialty food ingredients derived from herbs and plants that provide texturizing solutions used in the food industry, food protection solutions used in food and beverage products, as well as specialty soy and pea protein with value-added formulations, emulsifiers and sweeteners. Natural food protection ingredients consist of natural antioxidants and anti-microbials used for natural food preservation and shelf-life extension for beverages, cosmetic and healthcare products, pet food and feed additives. Flavors include a range of flavor compounds and natural taste solutions that are ultimately used by our customers in savory products (soups, sauces, meat, fish, poultry, snacks, etc.), beverages (juice drinks, carbonated or flavored beverages, spirits, etc.), sweets (bakery products, candy, cereal, chewing gum, etc.), and dairy products (yogurt, ice cream, cheese, etc.). Flavors also include value-added spices and seasoning ingredients for meat, food service, convenience, alternative protein and culinary products. Food Designs include savory solution products such as spices, sauces, marinades and mixtures. During the fourth quarter of 2022, we announced our entry into an agreement to sell a portion of the Savory Solutions business and completed the divestiture on May 31, 2023. Additionally, Food Designs provide inclusion products that help with taste and texture by, among other things, combining flavorings with fruit, vegetables and other natural ingredients for a wide range of food products, such as health snacks, baked goods, cereals, pastries, ice cream and other dairy products. 3 Table of Contents Health Biosciences Our Health Biosciences segment consists of the development and production of an advanced biotechnology-derived portfolio of enzymes, food cultures, probiotics and specialty ingredients for food and non-food applications. Among many other applications, this biotechnology-driven portfolio includes cultures for use in fermented foods such as yogurt, cheese and fermented beverages, probiotic strains, many with documented clinical health claims for use as dietary supplements and through industrial fermentation the production of enzymes and microorganisms that provide product and process performance benefits to household detergents, animal feed, ethanol production and brewing. Health Biosciences is comprised of Health, Cultures Food Enzymes, Home Personal Care, Animal Nutrition and Grain Processing. Health provides ingredients for dietary supplements, functional food and beverage, specialized nutrition and pharma. Cultures Food Enzymes provides products that aim to serve the global demand for healthy, natural, clean label and fermented food for fresh dairy, cheese, bakery and brewing products. Such products contribute to extended shelf life, stability, taste and texture, helping our customers to improve their product offerings. The business s enzyme solutions also allow our customers to provide low sugar, high fiber and lactose-free dairy products. Home Personal Ca re produces enzymes for laundry and dishwashing detergents, cleaning and textiles to help enhance the product and process performance of products in the fabric and home care, textiles and industrials and personal care markets. In 2023, we introduced patented enzymatic polymers that are renewable, biodegradable alternatives to functional ingredients used in home cleaning and beauty care products. Animal Nutrition produces feed enzymes and animal health solutions that help to improve nutrition, welfare, performance and sustainability of livestock animal farming. Grain Processing produces yeasts and enzymes for biofuel production and carbohydrate processing. Scent Our Scent segment creates fragrance compounds, fragrance ingredients and cosmetic ingredients that are integral elements in the world s finest perfumes and best-known household and personal care products. Consumer insights science and creativity are at the heart of our Scent business, and, along with our unique portfolio of natural and synthetic ingredients, global footprint, innovative technologies and know-how, and customer intimacy, we believe make us a market leader in scent products. The Scent segment is comprised of Fragrance Compounds, Fragrance Ingredients and Cosmetic Ingredients. Fragrance Compounds are unique and proprietary combinations of multiple fragrance ingredients that are ultimately used by our customers in their consumer goods. Our creative and commercial teams within fragrance compounds are organized into two broad categories: fine fragrances and consumer fragrances. Our perfumers harness creativity and leverage our innovative captive molecules, sustainable natural ingredients obtained with innovative processes, biotech ingredients, data science, and consumer insights to create unique and inspiring fragrances driving consumer preferences. Our fine fragrances focus on perfumes and colognes, creating global and local namesake brands, from high luxury to mass market, from market leading to ultra-niche products. Our consumer fragrances include three end-use categories of products: Fabric Care, including laundry detergents, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products; Home Care, including household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air fresheners; and Body Care, including personal wash, hair care and toiletries products. Fragrance Ingredients are natural and synthetic, and active and functional ingredients that are used internally and sold to third parties, including competitors, for use in the preparation of compounds. While the principal role of our fragrance ingredients facilities is to support our fragrance compounds business, we utilize excess manufacturing capacity to manufacture and sell certain fragrance ingredients to third parties, enabling us to leverage our fixed costs while maintaining the security of our supply for our perfumers and ultimately our customers. Flavor ingredients include natural flavor extracts, specialty botanical extracts, distillates, essential oils, citrus products, aroma chemicals and natural gums and resins. Such ingredients are used for food, beverage and flavors, and are often sold directly to food and beverage manufacturers who use them in producing consumer products. During the fourth quarter of 2022, we announced our entry into an agreement to sell our Flavor Specialty Ingredients business and completed the divestiture on August 1, 2023. Cosmetic Ingredients designs, develops, manufactures and markets innovative ingredients for the cosmetics and personal care industry, while offering active ingredients, functional ingredients, and delivery systems. During the fourth quarter of 2023, we entered into an agreement to sell our Cosmetic Ingredients business and expect the divestiture to be completed in the first quarter of 2024. 4 Table of Contents Pharma Solutions Our Pharma Solutions segment produces, among other things, a vast portfolio of cellulosics and seaweed-based pharmaceutical excipients, used to improve the functionality and delivery of active pharmaceutical ingredients, including controlled or modified drug release formulations, and enabling the development of more effective pharmaceutical finished dosage formulations. Our excipients are used in prescription and over-the-counter pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. Our Pharma Solutions products also serve a variety of other specialty and industrial end-uses including coatings, inks, electronics, agriculture and consumer products. Consumer Insights, Research and Product Development Process The markets in which we compete require constant innovation to remain competitive. Consumer preferences tend to drive change in our markets, and as science evolves and sustainability continues to be a key factor to customers and consumers, we must continue to strengthen our research and development platforms and adapt our capabilities to provide differentiated products. Consumer Insights We believe that the first step to creating an innovative and unique product experience begins with gaining insight into the consumer and emerging industry trends. By developing a deep understanding of what consumers value and prefer through our consumer insight programs, we are better able to focus our research and development and creative efforts. Our consumer science, insight and marketing teams interpret trends, monitor product launches, analyze quantitative market data and conduct numerous consumer interviews annually. Based on this information, we develop innovative and proprietary programs to evaluate potential products that enable us to understand the emotional connections between a prospective product and the consumer. We believe this ability to pinpoint the likelihood of a product s success translates into stronger brand equity, resulting in increased returns and greater market share gains for our customers as well as for IFF. Research and Development We consider our research and development infrastructure to be one of our key competencies and critical to our ability to provide differentiated products to our customers. We have strong product and application development pipelines built upon a global network that includes research and development, as well as regulatory and product stewardship capabilities. We focus and invest substantial resources in the research and development of new and innovative molecules, compounds, formulations and technologies and the application of these to our customers products. Using the knowledge gained from our consumer insights programs and business unit needs, we strategically focus our resources around key research and development platforms that address or anticipate consumer needs or preferences. Our innovation-based platforms are aligned with key consumer insight-led growth themes: improving home and personal care, empowering wellbeing and healthy lives, transforming food systems and accelerating climate solutions. By aligning our capabilities and resources to these platforms, we ensure the proper support and focus for each program so that our products can be further developed and eventually accepted for commercial application. As of December 31, 2023, we have 880 granted U.S. patents and 431 pending U.S. patent applications, as well as numerous other granted patents and pending patent applications around the world. We have developed many unique molecules and delivery systems for our customers that are used as the foundations of successful products around the world. Our principal basic research and development activities are located in Union Beach, New Jersey; Wilmington, Delaware; Palo Alto, California; Brabrand, Denmark; and Leiden, The Netherlands. At those locations, our scientists and application engineers, while collaborating with our other research and development centers around the world, support the: discovery of new materials; development of new technologies, such as delivery systems; creation of new compounds; and enhancement of existing ingredients and compounds. As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 3,700 people globally in research and development activities. 5 Table of Contents Creative Application Through our global network of creative centers and application laboratories, we create or adapt the basic Nourish, Health Biosciences, Scent and Pharma Solutions products that we have developed in the research and development process to commercialize for use in our customers consumer products. Our global creative teams consist of marketing, consumer science, consumer insights and technical application experts, from a wide range of cultures and nationalities. In close partnership with our customers product development groups, our creative teams create the experiences that our customers are seeking in order to satisfy consumer demands in each of their respective markets. New product development is driven by a variety of sources including requests from our customers, who are in need of specific products for use in a new or modified consumer product, or as a result of internal initiatives stemming from our consumer insights program. Our product development team works in partnership with our scientists and researchers to optimize the consumer appeal and relevance of our offerings. We use a collaborative process between our researchers, our product development team and our customers to perfect our offerings so they are ready to be included in the final consumer product. In addition to creating new products, our researchers and product development teams advise customers on ways to improve their existing products by moderating or substituting current ingredients with more readily accessible or less expensive materials enhancing their yield, or helping to increase or improve functionality of their formulations. This often results in creating a better value proposition for our customers. Most of our formulas are treated as trade secrets and remain our proprietary assets. Our business is not materially dependent upon any individual patent, trademark or license. Center for Commercial Excellence Our Center for Commercial Excellence utilizes a holistic and centralized approach towards commercial execution by, among other things: Unlocking value through improved customer experience based on market, customer and pricing insights, digital and advanced analytics, sales enablement, and marketing excellence; Building further sales force capability to deliver growth targets, own the end-to-end process, and deliver sales synergies using CRM systems, pricing tools, segmentation models, commercial opportunity management, account plan development, training, and incentive plans; Evaluating and driving new business development opportunities, including analyzing potential markets, assessing client needs, and identifying competitor response strategies; and Strengthening collaboration across divisions by collecting and disseminating best practices and anchoring business decisions in data-driven insights. Supply Chain We strive to provide our customers with consistent and quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis by managing all aspects of the supply chain, from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution. Procurement In connection with the manufacture of our products, we use natural and synthetic ingredients. As of December 31, 2023, we purchased approximately 24,000 different raw materials sourced from an extensive network of domestic and international suppliers and distributors. Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products, as well as from plant, animal and marine products, and commodity crops like wheat, corn and soy. They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals that are responsible for the fragrance, flavor, antioxidant properties and nutrition of the natural products. Natural products are purchased directly from farms or in processed and semi-processed forms. Some natural products are used in compounds in the state in which they are obtained and others are used after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes. In order to ensure our supply of raw materials, achieve favorable pricing and provide timely transparency regarding inflationary trends to our customers, we continue to focus on: purchasing under contract with fixed or formula-based pricing for set time periods; entering into hedging for raw materials we purchase that can be hedged against liquid commodity assets; entering into supplier relationships to gain access to supplies we would not otherwise have; implementing indexed pricing; reducing the complexity of our formulations; 6 Table of Contents evaluating the profitability of whether to buy or make an ingredient; sourcing from local countries with our own procurement professionals; and periodically assessing our supply base with a view towards greater cost efficiencies and improvements. Manufacturing and Distribution As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 190 manufacturing facilities, creative centers and application laboratories located in approximately 40 different countries. Our major manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, The Netherlands, Spain, Germany, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, Mexico, Slovenia, China, India, Ireland, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Belgium and Singapore. During the last few years in connection with the acquisition of Frutarom, we undertook an initiative to optimize our global operations footprint to efficiently and cost-effectively deliver value to our global customers (the Frutarom Integration Initiative ). From the inception of the Frutarom Integration Initiative through its completion as of March 31, 2023, we completed the closure of 22 sites. Our supply chain initiatives are focused on increasing capacity and investing in key technologies. Within our more mature markets, we tend to focus on consolidation and cost optimization as well as the implementation of new technologies. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we develop relationships with third parties, including contract manufacturing organizations, that expand our access to the technologies, capabilities and capacity that we need to better serve our customers. For more detailed information about risks related to our supply chain, please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors Supply chain disruptions, geopolitical developments, including the Russia-Ukraine war, the Israel-Hamas war and wider Middle East developments (including disruptions to the Red Sea passage or such conflicts spreading further in the relevant regions), or climate-change events (including severe weather events) may adversely affect our suppliers or our procurement of raw materials, and thus may impact our business and financial results. Environmental, Social, and Governance Following the integration with Nutrition and Biosciences, Inc. ( N B ) , we launched a refreshed and comprehensive Environmental, Social, and Governance ( ESG ) roadmap, the Do More Good Plan ( the Plan ), which aligns with IFF s purpose of applying science and creativity for a better world and our strategy for long term growth and value creation. The Plan includes ambitious 2030 goals across four key areas: Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainable Solutions. Environmental: Climate Planetary Health Supporting environmental stewardship across our operations, including commitments to climate action, zero waste to landfill, water stewardship solutions and an acceleration of our responsible sourcing practices by promoting regenerative ecosystems and achieving zero deforestation for strategic raw material supply chains. Social: Equity Wellbeing Advancing our commitment to people and communities by strengthening diversity, equity inclusion within our workforce, while continuously improving our safety program by striving for an injury-free workplace, and achieving world-class safety performance. Within our responsible sourcing program, the Company will continue to promote human rights and animal welfare, while supporting farmers livelihoods and ensuring prosperous and equitable value chains. Governance: Transparency Accountability Continuing our commitment to good governance which starts with our Board and Executive Leadership Team and is supported by a strong governance framework, including having a robust program to ensure compliance with our Codes of Conduct and adherence to the highest standards of ethics, integrity, honesty and respect in our dealings internally and with our business partners. To enhance accountability in line with evolving stakeholder expectations, the Company has launched ESG metrics tied to executive compensation, while expanding oversight for ESG at the Board of Directors level. Sustainable Solutions Focusing on the sustainability value proposition and growth for all new innovations as we assist customers in achieving their own ESG goals by delivering an expanded suite of sustainable solutions for the market. 7 Table of Contents In 2023, our Company continued to achieve notable recognitions in these areas. We qualified as a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, North America for the fourth consecutive year, a family of best-in-class benchmarks for investors who recognize that sustainable business practices are critical to generating long-term shareholder value. This distinction validates IFF s leadership position in sustainability performance and underscores our commitment to executing on key ESG priorities. We were also awarded the 2023 EcoVadis Platinum sustainability rating for the third time, placing IFF among the top 1% of companies assessed. In addition, following our submission to CDP Climate Change, Water Security and Forests, we maintained our leadership position in CDP Climate Change and achieved management level for CDP Water Security and Forests for 2023. IFF continues to be listed in the FTSE4Good Index series as well as in the Euronext Vigeo World 120 Index for ESG performance. In addition, in 2023 IFF further aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) by completing the first phase of a climate scenario analysis to understand and quantify the potential risks and opportunities related to climate change. For more detailed information about our ESG programs and performance, please refer to our annual ESG report. Governmental Regulation We develop, produce and market our products in a number of jurisdictions around the world and are subject to federal, regional and local legislation and regulations in various countries. Our products, which among other industries, are intended for use in food, beverage, pharmaceutical and dietary supplements, home and personal care, feed, cosmetics industries, are subject to strict quality and regulatory standards and environmental laws and regulations. We in turn are required to meet strict standards which, in recent years, have become increasingly stringent and affect both existing as well as new products. While the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations leads to higher overall capital expenditure, which can be significant in certain periods, we do not currently anticipate any material capital expenditures necessary to comply with such laws and regulations. We continue to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations and while the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty, compliance has not had, and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on capital expenditure, earnings or competitive position. Our products and operations are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in each of the markets in which we operate. These agencies include (1) the Food and Drug Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate flavors, pharmaceutical excipients and other ingredients in consumer products, (2) the Environmental Protection Agency and equivalent international agencies that regulate our manufacturing facilities, as well as fragrance products (including encapsulation systems), (3) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the working conditions in our manufacturing, research laboratories and creative centers, (4) local and international agencies that regulate trade and customs, (5) the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local or international agencies that regulate controlled chemicals that we use in our operations, (6) the Chemical Registration/Notification authorities that regulate chemicals that we use in, or transport to, the various countries in which we manufacture and/or market our products, and (7) the U.S. Department of Agriculture and equivalent international authorities with respect to, among other things, labeling of consumer products. We have seen an increase in registration and reporting requirements concerning the use of certain chemicals in a number of countries, such as Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals ( REACH ) regulations in the European Union, as well as similar regulations in other countries. In addition, we are subject to various rules relating to health, work safety and the environment at the local and international levels in the various countries in which we operate. Our manufacturing facilities throughout the world are subject to environmental standards relating to air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. In recent years, there has been an increase in the stringency of environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental standards, and the costs of compliance have risen significantly, a trend we expect will continue in the future. For more detailed information about risks related to governmental regulation applicable to the Company, please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors If we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements and industry standards, including those regarding product safety, quality, efficacy and environmental impact, we could incur significant costs and suffer reputational harm which could adversely affect results of operations. Competition The markets for our products are part of a larger market that supplies a wide variety of ingredients and compounds used in consumer products. The broader market includes functional foods and food additives, including seasonings, texturizers, spices, cultures, enzymes, probiotics, certain food-related commodities, and fortified products, as well as natural ingredients, nutritional ingredients, supplements and active cosmetic ingredients. Our acquisitions have also expanded our reach in products within the functional food ingredient market, including ingredients focused on improving the health and wellness characteristics of a consumer good, the dietary supplement, pharmaceutical ingredient, infa