ITEM 1 - BUSINESS BACKGROUND Overview and Mission Intuit helps consumers and small businesses prosper by delivering financial management, compliance, and marketing products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us serve small business customers. Our mission is to power prosperity around the world. Across our platform, we use the power of technology to deliver three core benefits to our customers: helping put more money in their pockets, saving them time by eliminating work so they can focus on what matters to them, and ensuring that they have complete confidence in every financial decision they make. All of our customers have a common set of needs. Our global technology platform, which includes TurboTax, Credit Karma, QuickBooks, and Mailchimp, is designed to help consumers and small businesses manage their finances, get and retain customers, save money, pay off debt and do their taxes with ease and confidence so they receive the maximum refund they deserve. For those customers who have made the bold decision to become entrepreneurs and go into business for themselves, we are focused on helping them find and keep customers, get paid faster, pay their employees, manage and get access to capital, and ensure their books are done right. We serve more than 100 million customers and generated revenue of $12.7 billion in our fiscal year which ended July 31, 2022. The rise of artificial intelligence (AI) is fundamentally reshaping our world and Intuit is taking advantage of this technological revolution to find new ways to improve the customer experience and deliver on our mission. We are focused on capitalizing on this opportunity to improve prosperity globally and inspire our workforce, while investing in our company s reputation and durable growth in the future. Intuit Inc. was incorporated in California in March 1984. We reincorporated in Delaware and completed our initial public offering in March 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 2700 Coast Avenue, Mountain View, California, 94043, and our main telephone number is 650-944-6000. When we refer to we, our or Intuit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (Intuit Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries. Our Business Portfolio We organize our businesses into four reportable segments: Small Business Self-Employed : This segment serves small businesses and the self-employed around the world, and the accounting professionals who assist and advise them. Our QuickBooks offerings include financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, time tracking, merchant payment processing solutions, and financing for small businesses. Our Mailchimp offerings include e-commerce, marketing automation, and customer relationship management. Consumer : This segment serves consumers and includes do-it-yourself and assisted TurboTax income tax preparation products and services sold in the U.S. and Canada. Our Mint offering is a personal finance offering which helps customers track their finances and daily financial behaviors. Credit Karma : This segment serves consumers with a personal finance platform that provides personalized recommendations of credit card, home, auto and personal loan, and insurance products; online savings and checking accounts through an FDIC member bank partner; and access to their credit scores and reports, credit and identity monitoring, credit report dispute, and data-driven resources. ProConnect : This segment serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProConnect Tax Online in the U.S., and ProFile and ProTax Online in Canada. Our Business and Growth Strategy At Intuit, our strategy starts with customer obsession. We listen to and observe our customers, understand their challenges, and then use advanced technology, including AI, to develop innovative solutions to help consumers and small businesses prosper. Our strategy for delivering on our bold goals is to be an AI-driven expert platform where we and others can solve our customers most important problems. We plan to accelerate the development of the platform by applying AI in three key areas: Intuit Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K 4 Tables of Contents An Open Platform : None of us can do it alone, including Intuit. The best way to deliver for customers is by creating an open, collaborative platform. It s the power of partnerships that accelerates the world s success. Our open technology platform integrates with partners so, together, we can deliver value and benefits that matter the most to our customers. Application of AI : AI helps our customers work smarter because we can automate, predict and personalize their experience. Using AI technologies, we are: leveraging machine learning to build decision engines and algorithms that learn from rich datasets to transform user experiences; applying knowledge engineering and turning compliance rules into code; and using natural language processing to revolutionize how customers interact with products and services. Incorporating Experts : One of the biggest problems our customers face is lack of confidence. Even with current advances in technology that deliver personalized tools and insights, many customers want to connect with a real person to help give them the confidence they are making the right decision. By bringing experts onto our platform we can solve this massive problem for customers. The power of our virtual expert platform allows us to scale the intelligence of our products, elevating experts to advisors and delivering big benefits for customers. As we build our AI-driven expert platform, we prioritize our resources on five strategic priorities across the company. These priorities focus on solving the problems that matter most to customers and include: Revolutionizing speed to benefit : When customers use our products and services, we use the power of data-driven customer insights to deliver value instantly and aim to make interactions with our offerings frictionless, without the need for customers to manually enter data. We are accelerating the application of AI and investing in decentralized technologies such as blockchain and cryptocurrency, with a goal to revolutionize the customer experience and help customers put more money in their pockets faster. This priority is foundational across our business, and execution against it positions us to succeed with our other four strategic priorities. Connecting people to experts : The largest problem our customers face is lack of confidence to file their own taxes or to manage their books. To build their confidence, we connect our customers to experts. We offer customers access to experts to help them make important decisions and experts, such as accountants, gain access to new customers so they can grow their businesses. We are also expanding how we think about virtual experiences by exploring metaverse technologies and broadening the segments we serve beyond tax and accounting, to play a more meaningful role in our customers lives. Unlocking smart money decisions : Crippling high-cost debt and lack of savings are at unprecedented levels across the US. To address these challenges, we are creating an autonomous financial platform with Credit Karma that helps consumers find the right financial products, puts more money in their pockets and connects them to insights and education. Be the center of small business growth : We are focused on helping customers grow their businesses by offering a broad, seamless set of tools that are designed to help them get and retain customers, get paid faster, manage and get access to capital, pay employees with confidence, and use third-party apps to help run their businesses. At the same time, we want to position ourselves to better serve product-based businesses to benefit customers who sell products through multiple channels. Disrupt the small business mid-market : We aim to disrupt the mid-market with QuickBooks Online Advanced, our online offering designed to address the needs of small business customers with 10 to 100 employees. This offering enables us to increase retention of these larger customers, and attract new mid-market customers who are over-served by available offerings. As the external environment evolves, we continue to innovate and adapt our strategy and anticipate our customers needs. For nearly 40 years, we have been dedicated to developing innovative solutions that are designed to solve our customers' most important financial problems, are easy to use, and are available where and when customers need them. As a result, our customers actively recommend our products and solutions to others, which is one important way that we measure the success of our strategy. Intuit Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K 5 Tables of Contents PRODUCTS AND SERVICES During fiscal 2022, we offered our products and services in the four segments described in Business Overview above. The following table shows the revenue for each of these segments over the last three fiscal years. Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2021 Fiscal 2020 Small Business Self-Employed 51 % 49 % 53 % Consumer 31 % 37 % 41 % Credit Karma (1) 14 % 9 % % ProConnect 4 % 5 % 6 % (1) Credit Karma revenue from December 3, 2020 Total international net revenue was approximately 8%, 5%, and 4% of consolidated total net revenue for the twelve months ended July 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. For financial information about our reportable segments, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Small Business Self-Employed Our Small Business Self-Employed segment serves small businesses and the self-employed around the world, and the accounting professionals who assist and advise them. Our goal is for QuickBooks to be the source of truth for each small business customer who uses our integrated platform. We work to make this a reality through our three-pillared growth strategy: Grow the Core by transforming financial management software and meeting customers where they are; Connect the Ecosystem, by meeting a wider range of customer needs with a single integrated platform; and Expand Globally, by serving small businesses around the world. With this strategy, we enable a powerful ecosystem, personalized using artificial intelligence, that scales across our customers most pressing needs. Small business owners are constantly faced with challenges and barriers in their journey to success. Universally, small businesses at every stage of growth struggle to get customers, get paid, get capital, pay workers, get access to advice, and stay compliant and organized. Our innovative, end-to-end customer growth platform provides actionable, AI-driven insights our customers need to grow and run their businesses with confidence. Get Customers Mailchimp . Mailchimp is an all-in-one marketing platform for growing businesses. Mailchimp s marketing platform enables small and mid-market businesses to digitally promote their businesses across email, social media, landing pages, ads, websites, and more, all from one place. Get Paid Payment Processing Solutions . Our full range of merchant services for small businesses includes credit card, debit card, Apple Pay, and ACH payment services for in-person and card-not-present payments. We offer instant deposit options for eligible customers. QuickBooks Payments is deeply integrated into QuickBooks through seamless onboarding and automated transaction reconciliation and is the default payment solution for QuickBooks invoicing. QuickBooks Checking . The QuickBooks Checking business bank account comes with a physical and virtual debit card for powerful purchasing power, fast payments with no fee Instant Deposit, and powerful cash flow management with Envelopes for partitioning funds for future expenses, all with no fees. Get Capital Capital . We offer financing options for small businesses to help them get the capital they need to succeed. The financing process provides small businesses the ability to use their QuickBooks data to qualify to borrow capital, whether directly from Intuit or from a third-party partner. Get Paid Upfront . Get Paid Upfront provides access to capital through qualifying QuickBooks invoices, allowing small businesses to take control of their cash flow and put earned money to work faster. Invoice proceeds are funded in advance, while the small business customer sees nothing different and pays their invoice as they usually would. Pay Workers Employer Solutions (Payroll and Time Tracking) . Our payroll solutions, available as online or desktop solutions, are sold on a subscription basis and integrate with our QuickBooks Online and Desktop offerings or may be purchased standalone. Our Intuit Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K 6 Tables of Contents QuickBooks Online payroll offerings include automated tax payments and filings, as well as access to employee benefits offerings like health insurance and 401(k) plans. We also offer QuickBooks Time which seamlessly integrates with QuickBooks Payroll and third-party payroll products to help businesses easily and accurately track time across a mobile workforce, including tools for project planning, job costing, and tracking per-client billable hours. Access Advice QuickBooks Live . QuickBooks Live Full-Service Bookkeeping gives small businesses one-on-one support from our team of expert bookkeepers to manage and maintain books with guaranteed accuracy. Our QuickBooks Live bookkeepers have an average of 10 years of experience working with small businesses across a wide array of industries. They re certified QuickBooks ProAdvisors, and many are Certified Public Accountants. QuickBooks ProAdvisor . Accounting professionals can assist with bookkeeping, taxes, payroll, and more. Our free Find a ProAdvisor service helps customers find a QuickBooks Certified accountant or bookkeeper who knows their niche, speaks their language, or is close by whatever works best. To enable our network of hundreds of thousands of accountants, we offer memberships to the QuickBooks ProAdvisor program, which provides accountants access to QuickBooks Online Accountant, technical support, training, product certification, marketing tools, and discounts on Intuit products and services purchased on behalf of clients. Stay Compliant Organized QuickBooks Self-Employed . Designed specifically for self-employed customers like independent contractors and freelancers, QuickBooks Self-Employed helps customers stay tax-time ready, all year long. Features include categorizing business and personal transactions, identifying and classifying tax deductible expenses, tracking mileage, calculating estimated quarterly taxes and sending invoices. In the United States, QuickBooks Self-Employed can be combined with TurboTax to export and pay year-end taxes. QuickBooks Online . Designed for all kinds of small businesses, QuickBooks Online helps simplify accounting and tax compliance. Users can track income and expenses, create and send invoices and estimates, manage and pay bills, and review a variety of financial reports. QuickBooks Online also has powerful industry-specific capabilities such as features for product-based businesses. QuickBooks Online is an open platform, enabling third-party developers to create online and mobile applications that integrate with our offering. QuickBooks Online Advanced . Designed for small businesses with 10 to 100 employees that have more complex needs, QuickBooks Online Advanced has features specifically designed for high-growth, mid-market small businesses and leverages AI, automation and data insights to deliver more ways for them to grow and scale. QuickBooks Online Advanced integrates across the QuickBooks ecosystem and with best-in-class apps, and also has powerful industry-specific features that deliver automation, deeper insights, and enhanced tracking for what matters most to a users unique industry. QuickBooks Desktop Software . Our QuickBooks financial management solutions are also available as desktop versions for small businesses. QuickBooks Enterprise, designed for small businesses with 10 to 100 employees, is available for download and can also be provided as a hosted solution. This offering provides industry-specific reports and features for a range of industries, including Contractor, Manufacturing and Wholesale, Nonprofit, and Retail. Financial Supplies . We offer a range of financial supplies designed for individuals and small businesses that use our QuickBooks offerings. These include standard paper checks and Secure Plus checks with CheckLock fraud protection features, a variety of stationery, tax forms and related supplies. Consumer Our Consumer segment includes our TurboTax products and services that are designed to enable customers to prepare and file their federal and state income tax returns quickly and accurately. These offerings are available either online or as desktop versions. They are designed to be easy to use, yet sophisticated enough for complex tax returns. For customers using our online offerings and looking for additional advice or guidance along the way, we have experts standing by to offer tax review and advice all year round. We also have experts available to prepare, sign and file tax returns for customers who prefer to have their taxes prepared for them. We also offer Mint, which is an online personal finance offering aimed at helping customers track their finances and daily financial behaviors and was a part of this segment through July 31, 2022. On August 1, 2022, our Mint offering moved from our Consumer segment to our Credit Karma segment. Tax Return Preparation Offerings . For the 2021 tax season, we offered a variety of commercial software products and tax filing services to meet the different needs of our customers, including those filing simple returns, those who itemize deductions, own investments or rental property, and small business owners. Customers can electronically file their federal and state income tax returns through our electronic filing service. We also offered TurboTax Live for customers seeking to obtain tax advice from professionals, TurboTax Live Full Service for customers seeking to have their tax returns prepared for them, as well as audit defense and audit support services. Our online tax preparation and filing services were offered through the websites of thousands of financial institutions, electronic retailers, and other online merchants. Financial institutions can offer Intuit Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K 7 Tables of Contents our online tax preparation and filing services to their customers through a link to TurboTax Online. Our TurboTax U.S. and Canada offerings consist of desktop and online offerings. Credit Karma Our Credit Karma segment provides consumers with a financial platform that helps them find the right financial products and put more money in their pockets. The platform offers a number of free services to its members: access to their credit scores and reports, credit and identity monitoring, credit report dispute, data-driven resources, personalized recommendations of credit card, loan, and insurance products and online savings and checking accounts through our bank partner, MVB Bank, Inc., Member FDIC. To provide these services to its members, Credit Karma works with a variety of partners, including credit bureaus, banks, credit card issuers, insurance carriers, and other financial institutions and lending partners. Additionally, Credit Karma leverages Lightbox, a first-of-its-kind enterprise platform which allows lenders to leverage thousands of de-identified data points from Credit Karma members to help provide its members with greater certainty that they will be approved if they apply for a financial product. ProConnect Our ProConnect segment includes our professional tax offerings and serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings consist of Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProConnect Tax Online in the U.S., and ProFile and ProTax Online in Canada. These offerings enable accountants to accurately and efficiently complete and electronically file a full range of consumer, small business, and commercial federal and state tax returns. Lacerte is designed for full-service year-round accounting firms who handle more complex returns. ProSeries is designed for year-round tax practices handling moderately complex tax returns. ProConnect Tax Online is our cloud-based solution, which is designed for full-service year-round practices who prepare all forms of consumer and small business returns and integrates with our QuickBooks Online offerings. ProFile is our Canadian desktop tax offering, which serves year-round full-service accounting firms for both consumer and business tax returns. ProTax Online is our Canadian cloud based tax solution, which is designed for full-service year-round practices who prepare all forms of consumer and business tax returns, and is fully integrated into QuickBooks Online Accountant to provide seamless integration of data across books and tax through our Workpapers solution. We also offer a variety of tax-related services that complement the tax return preparation process including year-round document storage, collaboration services, e-signature, and bank products, and additional capabilities such as fixed asset management, desktop hosting, and third party solutions for practice management for some of our U.S. tax offerings. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The markets for software and related services are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Continuous investment is required to innovate and develop new products and services as well as enhance existing offerings to be successful in these markets. Our product development efforts are more important than ever as we pursue our growth strategy. We develop many of our products and services internally, and we have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. We also supplement our internal development efforts by acquiring or licensing products and technology from third parties, and establishing other relationships that enable us to enhance or expand our offerings more rapidly. We expect to expand our third-party technology relationships as we continue to pursue our growth strategy. Our online offerings have rapid development cycles, while our traditional desktop software products tend to have predictable annual development and product release cycles. In addition, developing consumer and professional tax software and services presents unique challenges because of the demanding development cycle required to accurately incorporate federal and state tax law and tax form changes within a rigid timetable. The development timing for our small business payroll and merchant payment processing services offerings varies with business needs and regulatory requirements, and the length of the development cycle depends on the scope and complexity of each project. We continue to make substantial investments in research and development, and we expect to focus our future research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and services with financial recommendations, personalization, and ease of use enabled by AI and other advanced technologies. We continue to focus on developing new products and services, including global offerings, and significant research and development efforts for ongoing projects to update the technology platforms for several of our offerings. SEASONALITY Our Consumer and ProConnect offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are typically concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal Intuit Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K 8 Tables of Contents pattern typically results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. In fiscal 2022, the IRS began accepting returns on January 24, 2022, and the tax filing deadline was April 18, 2022. However, in fiscal 2021, the IRS began accepting returns on February 12, 2021, and the tax filing deadline was May 17, 2021. In fiscal 2020, the IRS began accepting returns on January 27, 2020, and the tax filing deadline was July 15, 2020. As a result of the extensions of the tax filing deadlines in 2021 and 2020, a significant amount of our fiscal 2021 and 2020 Consumer segment and ProConnect segment revenues were recognized in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2022. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and ProConnect businesses to continue to have a significant impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. MARKETING, SALES AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS Markets Our primary customers are consumers and small businesses. We also provide specialized tax and accounting products to professional accountants, who are key partners to help us reach small business customers. The markets in which we compete have always been characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements by competitors. Over the past several years, the widespread usage of mobile devices and social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that customers learn about, evaluate, and purchase products and services. Real-time, personalized online shopping experiences are the standard. In addition, many customers now begin shopping in one channel and ultimately purchase in another. This has created a need for integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy experiences. Market and industry changes quickly make existing products and services obsolete. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to these changes with new business models, updated competitive strategies, new or enhanced products and services, alternative distribution methods, and other changes in the way we do business. Marketing Programs We use a variety of marketing programs to generate direct sales, develop leads, increase general awareness of the Intuit brand and our product portfolio, and drive sales in retail. These programs include offline marketing such as TV, radio, billboard, magazine and newspaper advertising; digital marketing such as display and pay-per-click advertising, search engine optimization, and social and affiliate marketing; mobile marketing through online app stores; email marketing; retail marketing; public relations; sponsorships, and in product marketing to drive awareness of related products and services. Our campaigns are designed to attract new users, retain existing users, and cross sell additional offerings. Sales and Distribution Channels Multi-Channel Shop-and-Buy Experiences . Our customers primarily research products and services online. Some customers buy and use our products and services entirely online. Others research online but make their purchase at a retail location. Because many customers shop across multiple channels, we continue to coordinate our online, offline, and retail presence and promotions to support an integrated, multi-channel shop-and-buy model. We also focus on cross-selling complementary Intuit and third-party offerings online and in-product. Direct Sales Channel . We offer many of our products and services directly through our websites, apps, and call centers. Direct, online sales are an effective channel for customers who can make purchase decisions based on content provided on our websites, via other online content or word of mouth recommendations. Assisted sales continues to be an effective channel for serving customers that want live help to select the products and services that are right for their needs. We also have a direct sales force that calls on U.S. and international accounting firms and seeks to increase their awareness, usage, and recommendation of our small business and professional tax solutions. For mid-market businesses, we have implemented and expanded on our omnichannel go to market strategy by diversifying and growing our technology partner channel and industry focused direct sales teams. Mobile Application Stores . We distribute many of our offerings for mobile devices through proprietary online stores that provide applications for specific devices. These include the Apple App Store and Google s Play Store. Partner and Other Channels . We offer many of our products and services through partners including value-added resellers, system integrators (including accountants and marketing professionals), and managed service providers who help us reach new customers at the point of need and drive growth and market share by extending our online reach. These partners combine our products and services with marketing, sales, and technical expertise to deliver a complete solution at the local level. We also sell our QuickBooks and TurboTax desktop software as well as payroll services at retail locations across the United States and Canada and on retailer websites. In Canada, we also rely on distributors who sell products into the retail channel. Intuit Fiscal 2022 Form 10-K 9 Tables of Contents COMPETITION We face intense competition in all of our businesses in all aspects across all markets for our products and services, which are rapidly evolving, fragmented, and have comple