ITEM 1 - BUSINESS BACKGROUND Overview and Mission Intuit is a global financial technology platform with a mission to power prosperity around the world. Our platform helps consumers and small and mid-market businesses prosper by delivering financial management, compliance, and marketing products and services. We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us serve small and mid-market business customers. Across our platform, we use the power of data and artificial intelligence (AI) to deliver three core benefits to our customers: helping put more money in their pockets, saving them time by eliminating work, and ensuring that they have complete confidence in every financial decision they make. We help consumers do their taxes with ease and confidence, understand their financial picture, build credit, save more to make ends meet, get their largest tax refund, pay off debt, and receive personalized suggestions on how to grow their money. We help small and mid-market businesses grow and run their business all in one place, including bookkeeping, getting paid, accessing capital, paying employees, getting and retaining customers, and managing their customer relationships. We do this through our global AI-driven expert platform and our offerings including TurboTax, Credit Karma, QuickBooks, and Mailchimp. We serve approximately 100 million customers and generated revenue of $16.3 billion in our fiscal year ended July 31, 2024. Intuit Inc. was incorporated in California in March 1984. We reincorporated in Delaware and completed our initial public offering in March 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 2700 Coast Avenue, Mountain View, California, 94043, and our main telephone number is 650-944-6000. When we refer to we, our, or Intuit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (Intuit Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries. Our Business Portfolio We organize our businesses into four reportable segments: Small Business Self-Employed : This segment serves small and mid-market businesses around the world, and the accounting professionals who assist and advise them. Our QuickBooks offerings include financial and business management online services and desktop software, payroll solutions, time tracking, merchant payment processing and bill pay solutions, checking accounts through an FDIC member bank partner, and financing for small businesses. Our Mailchimp offerings include marketing automation and customer relationship management. Consumer : This segment serves consumers and includes do-it-yourself and assisted TurboTax income tax preparation products and services sold in the U.S. and Canada. Credit Karma : This segment serves consumers with a personal finance platform that provides personalized recommendations of credit card, home, auto, and personal loan, and insurance products; online savings and checking accounts through an FDIC member bank partner; and access to their credit scores and reports, credit and identity monitoring, credit report dispute, credit building tools, and tools to help understand net worth and make financial progress. ProTax : This segment serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings include Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProConnect Tax Online in the U.S., and ProFile and ProTax Online in Canada. Our Business and Growth Strategy The era of AI is one of the most significant technological shifts in decades, igniting global innovations at incredible pace. Intuit made an early bet on AI, declaring its AI-driven expert platform strategy in 2019 to deliver on its mission of powering prosperity for consumers and small and mid-market businesses. Our strategy, combined with our five Big Bets that focus on the largest customer problems and growth opportunities, positions us for durable growth in the future. Our scale of data, our investment in AI capabilities such as knowledge engineering, machine learning, and generative AI (GenAI), and our network of AI-powered virtual experts give us significant advantage as we deliver reimagined customer experiences. With the introduction of GenAI, we are transforming how we strive to serve our customers by delivering done for you experiences, where we do the hard work for them, and connecting them with AI-powered human expertise to fuel their Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 4 Tables of Contents success. We use powerful and relevant contextual data sets spanning small business, consumer finance, and tax to deliver personalized financial insights to customers across our platform. Additionally, our investment in AI, GenAI, data, and world-class developer tools in particular, provides a foundation for us to accelerate productivity, innovate at scale, and move with speed to deliver benefits to our customers. This includes utilizing our own financial large language models (LLMs), as well as models from other leaders in GenAI, which together unlock new opportunities to serve our customers with accuracy and speed in a cost-efficient way. As we execute our global AI-driven expert platform strategy, we prioritize resources on our five Big Bets across the company. These priorities focus on solving the problems that matter most to customers and include: Revolutionizing speed to benefit : When customers use our products and services, we use the power of AI to deliver value instantly and aim to make interactions with our offerings frictionless, without the need for customers to manually enter data. We are accelerating the application of AI to deliver done for you experiences to our customers. This is foundational, and execution against this priority positions us to succeed with our other four Big Bets. Connecting people to experts : The largest problem our customers face is lack of confidence to file their own taxes or to manage their books. To build their confidence, we connect our customers to experts. We offer customers access to experts to help them make important decisions and experts, such as accountants, gain access to new customers so they can grow their businesses. We are also expanding our virtual expert network and broadening the segments we serve beyond tax and accounting to play a more meaningful role in our customers financial lives. Unlocking smart money decisions : To address the challenges of high-cost debt and lack of savings, we are creating a comprehensive, self-driving financial platform with Credit Karma that propels our members forward wherever they are on their financial journey, so they can understand their financial picture, make smart financial decisions, and stick to their financial plan in the near term and long term. Be the center of small business growth : Globally, we are focused on helping customers grow their businesses by offering a broad, seamless set of tools that are designed to help them get and retain customers, get paid faster, manage and get access to capital, pay employees with confidence, and use third-party apps to help run their businesses. Our money solutions enable customers to manage their money and improve cash flow. This is an important driver to improving the success of our small and mid-market business customers. Disrupt the small business mid-market : We aim to disrupt the mid-market with a tailor-made, integrated ecosystem, which includes our QuickBooks offerings, as well as our workforce solutions and money offerings. These solutions are designed to address the needs of mid-market business customers with 10 to 100 employees. Mailchimp s marketing offerings enable mid-market businesses to digitally promote their business across email, social media, landing pages, ads, websites, and more, all from one place. These offerings enable us to increase retention of these larger customers and accelerate mid-market demand. We believe our Big Bets enable us to deliver a QuickBooks and Mailchimp platform that serves as the source of truth for small and mid-market business customers, providing end-to-end solutions to increase their revenue and profitability, fueling their business success. For consumers, we are creating seamless, end-to-end experiences that customers benefit from year-round with TurboTax and Credit Karma, helping them make ends meet, maximize their tax refund, save more, pay off debt, and take steps to improve their financial health. As the external environment evolves, we continue to innovate and adapt our strategy and anticipate our customers needs. For more than 40 years, we have been dedicated to developing innovative solutions that are designed to solve our customers' most important financial problems. At Intuit, we believe that everyone should have the opportunity to prosper, and we never stop working to find new, innovative ways to make that possible. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 5 Tables of Contents PRODUCTS AND SERVICES During fiscal 2024, we offered our products and services in the four segments described in Our Business Portfolio above. The following table shows the percentage of total revenue contributed by each of these segments over the last three fiscal years. Fiscal 2024 Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2022 Small Business Self-Employed 59 % 56 % 51 % Consumer 27 % 29 % 31 % Credit Karma 10 % 11 % 14 % ProTax 4 % 4 % 4 % Total international net revenue was approximately 8% of consolidated total net revenue in each of the twelve months ended July 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022. For financial information about our reportable segments, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Small Business Self-Employed Our Small Business Self-Employed segment serves small and mid-market businesses around the world, and the accounting professionals who assist and advise them. Our goal is for QuickBooks to be the source of truth for each small and mid-market business customer who uses our AI-driven expert platform. Small and mid-market business owners are constantly faced with challenges and barriers in their journey to success. Universally, small businesses at every stage of growth struggle to get customers, get paid, get capital, pay workers, get access to advice, and stay compliant and organized. Our innovative customer growth platform provides actionable, AI-driven insights our customers need to grow and run their businesses with confidence. Get Customers Mailchimp . Mailchimp is an all-in-one marketing platform for growing businesses. Mailchimp s marketing platform enables small and mid-market businesses to digitally promote their businesses across email, social media, short message service (SMS), landing pages, ads, websites, and more, all from one place. Get Paid Payment Processing Solutions . Our full range of merchant services for small and mid-market businesses includes credit card, debit card, Apple Pay, and ACH payment services for in-person and card-not-present payments. We offer instant deposit and payments dispute protection options for eligible customers. QuickBooks Payments is deeply integrated into our QuickBooks Online and Desktop offerings through seamless onboarding and automated transaction reconciliation and is the default payment solution for QuickBooks invoicing. QuickBooks Checking . The QuickBooks Checking business bank account comes with a physical and virtual debit card for more spending power, fast payments with no-fee Instant Deposit, and powerful cash flow management with envelopes for partitioning funds for future expenses, all with no fees. Bill Pay . Our QuickBooks Online offerings allow small and mid-market businesses to organize bills and make payments online. Small and mid-market businesses can connect with vendors and automatically import bills through our network, resulting in easier and faster payments. Get Capital Capital . We offer financing options for small and mid-market businesses to help them get the capital they need to succeed. The financing process provides customers with the ability to use their QuickBooks data to qualify to borrow capital, whether directly from Intuit via term loans or from a third-party partner. Additionally, QuickBooks Line of Credit provides flexible access to capital through pre-approved credit limits. Qualified small and mid-market businesses can choose to borrow funds through a series of term loans within a maximum approved credit limit. Pay Workers Workforce Solutions . Our payroll solutions, available as online or desktop solutions, are sold on a subscription basis and integrate with our QuickBooks Online and Desktop offerings or may be purchased standalone. Our QuickBooks Online payroll offerings include automated tax payments and filings, as well as access to human resources solutions and employee benefits Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 6 Tables of Contents offerings like health insurance and 401(k) plans. We also offer QuickBooks Time, which seamlessly integrates with QuickBooks Payroll and third-party payroll products to help businesses easily and accurately track time across a mobile workforce, including tools for project planning, job costing, and tracking per-client billable hours. Access Advice QuickBooks Live . Small businesses can get support through two QuickBooks Live bookkeeping services: Assisted and Full-Service Bookkeeping. With QuickBooks Live Expert Assisted, small businesses have on-demand access to expert bookkeepers who can provide guidance and support on managing their books and making smart business decisions. With QuickBooks Live Full-Service Bookkeeping, small businesses get one-on-one support from our team of expert bookkeepers to manage and maintain books with guaranteed accuracy. Our experienced bookkeepers are certified QuickBooks ProAdvisors, and many are Certified Public Accountants. QuickBooks ProAdvisor . Accounting professionals can assist with bookkeeping, taxes, payroll, and more. Our free Find a ProAdvisor service helps customers find a QuickBooks Certified accountant or bookkeeper who knows their niche, speaks their language, or is close by. To enable our network of hundreds of thousands of accountants, we offer memberships to the QuickBooks ProAdvisor program, which provides accountants access to QuickBooks Online Accountant, technical support, training, product certification, marketing tools, and discounts on Intuit products and services purchased on behalf of clients. Stay Compliant Organized QuickBooks Online . Designed for all kinds of small businesses, QuickBooks Online helps simplify accounting and tax compliance. Users can track income and expenses, create and send invoices and estimates, manage and pay bills, and review a variety of financial reports. QuickBooks Online also has powerful industry-specific capabilities such as features for product-based businesses. QuickBooks Online is an open platform, enabling third-party developers to create online and mobile applications that integrate with our offering. We offer different QuickBooks Online solutions depending on the size and complexity of the small business, including Simple Start, Essentials, and Plus. Additionally, we offer QuickBooks Online Advanced designed for mid-market businesses with 10 to 100 employees that have more complex needs, and QuickBooks Self-Employed and QuickBooks Solopreneur designed for independent contractors and solo entrepreneurs. QuickBooks Desktop Software . Our QuickBooks financial management solutions are also available as desktop versions for small businesses on a subscription basis. QuickBooks Enterprise, designed for mid-market businesses with 10 to 100 employees, is available for download and can also be provided as a hosted solution. This offering provides industry-specific reports and features for a range of industries, including Contractor, Manufacturing and Wholesale, Nonprofit, and Retail. Financial Supplies . We offer a range of financial supplies designed for individuals and small businesses that use our QuickBooks offerings. These include standard paper checks and Secure Plus checks with CheckLock fraud protection features, a variety of stationery, tax forms, and related supplies. Consumer Our Consumer segment includes our TurboTax products and services that are designed to enable consumers and small businesses to prepare and file their federal and state income tax returns quickly and accurately. These offerings are available either online or as desktop versions in the U.S. and Canada. They are designed to be easy to use, yet sophisticated enough for complex tax returns. For the 2023 tax season, we offered a variety of commercial software products and tax filing services to meet the different needs of our customers, including those who file simple returns, those who itemize deductions, those who own investments or rental property, and small business owners. We offered TurboTax for small businesses, which enables customers to file their business taxes. We offer TurboTax Live for customers seeking to obtain tax advice from professionals and TurboTax Live Full Service for customers seeking to have their tax returns prepared for them. Customers can electronically file their federal and state income tax returns through our electronic filing service. Other services offered include audit defense and audit support. Our online tax preparation, filing, and other services were offered through the websites and mobile apps of thousands of financial institutions, electronic retailers, and other online merchants. Financial institutions can offer our online tax preparation and filing services to their customers through a link to TurboTax Online. Credit Karma Our Credit Karma segment provides consumers with a financial platform that propels them forward wherever they are on their financial journey, enabling them to understand their financial picture, make smart financial decisions, and stick to their financial plan. The platform offers a number of services to our members, many at no charge: access to their credit scores and reports, credit and identity monitoring, credit report dispute, tools to help understand net worth and make financial progress, and personalized recommendations of credit card, loan, and insurance products. Credit Karma Money offers members online savings and checking accounts through an FDIC member bank partner. Credit Karma Money also provides tools to help members improve their credit scores. To provide services to our members, Credit Karma works with a variety of partners, including credit bureaus, banks, credit card issuers, insurance carriers, and other financial institutions and lending partners. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 7 Tables of Contents Additionally, Credit Karma leverages Lightbox, a first-of-its-kind enterprise platform which allows lenders to leverage thousands of de-identified data points from Credit Karma members to help provide our members with greater certainty that they will be approved if they apply for a financial product. ProTax Our ProTax segment includes our professional tax offerings and serves professional accountants in the U.S. and Canada, who are essential to both small business success and tax preparation and filing. Our professional tax offerings consist of Lacerte, ProSeries, and ProConnect Tax Online in the U.S., and ProFile and ProTax Online in Canada. These offerings enable accountants to accurately and efficiently complete and electronically file a full range of consumer, small business, and commercial federal and state tax returns. Lacerte is designed for full-service, year-round accounting firms who handle more complex returns. ProSeries is designed for year-round tax practices handling moderately complex tax returns. ProConnect Tax Online is our cloud-based solution, which is designed for full-service, year-round practices who prepare all forms of consumer and small business returns and integrates with our QuickBooks Online offerings. ProFile is our Canadian desktop tax offering, which serves year-round full-service accounting firms for both consumer and business tax returns. ProTax Online is our Canadian cloud-based tax solution, which is designed for full-service, year-round practices who prepare all forms of consumer and business tax returns, and is integrated into QuickBooks Online Accountant to provide seamless integration of data across books and tax through our Workpapers solution. Our Tax Advisor offering leverages AI and information generated from our ProConnect Tax Online and Lacerte offerings to enable year-round tax planning services and communicate tax savings strategies to clients. We also offer a variety of tax-related services that complement the tax return preparation process, including year-round document storage, collaboration services, e-signature, and bank products, and additional capabilities such as fixed asset management, desktop hosting, and third-party solutions for practice management for some of our U.S. tax offerings. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The markets for software and related services are characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Continuous investment is required to innovate and develop new products and services, as well as enhance existing offerings to be successful in these markets. Our product development efforts are more important than ever as we pursue our growth strategy. We develop many of our products and services internally, and we have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. We also supplement our internal development efforts by acquiring or licensing products and technology from third parties, and establishing other relationships that enable us to enhance or expand our offerings more rapidly. We expect to expand our third-party technology relationships as we continue to pursue our growth strategy. Our online offerings have rapid development cycles, while our traditional desktop software products tend to have predictable development cycles and regular product release cycles. In addition, developing consumer and professional tax software and services presents unique challenges because of the demanding development cycle required to accurately incorporate federal and state tax law and tax form changes within a rigid timetable. The development timing for our small business payroll and merchant payment processing services offerings varies with business needs and regulatory requirements, and the length of the development cycle depends on the scope and complexity of each project. We continue to make substantial investments in research and development, and we expect to focus our future research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and services with financial recommendations, personalization, and ease of use enabled by AI and other advanced technologies. We continue to focus on developing new products and services, including global offerings, and significant research and development efforts for ongoing projects to update the technology platforms for several of our offerings. SEASONALITY Our Consumer and ProTax offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are typically heavily concentrated in the period from November through April. This seasonal pattern typically results in higher net revenues during our second and third quarters ending January 31 and April 30, respectively. We expect the seasonality of our Consumer and ProTax businesses to continue to have a material impact on our quarterly financial results in the future. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 8 Tables of Contents MARKETING, SALES, AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS Markets Our primary customers are consumers and small and mid-market businesses. We also provide specialized tax and accounting products to professional accountants, who are key partners to help us reach small and mid-market business customers. We partner with financial institutions and other partners, who we connect with consumers on our platform. The markets in which we compete have always been characterized by rapid technological change, shifting customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements by competitors. The widespread usage of mobile devices and social media, and the evolution of AI, have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that customers learn about, evaluate, and purchase products and services. Real-time, personalized online shopping experiences are the standard. In addition, many customers now begin shopping in one channel and ultimately purchase in another. This has created a need for integrated, multi-channel, shop-and-buy experiences. Market and industry changes quickly make existing products and services obsolete. Our success depends on our ability to respond rapidly to these changes with new business models, updated competitive strategies, new or enhanced products and services, and other changes in the way we do business. Marketing Programs We use a variety of marketing programs to generate direct sales, develop leads, increase general awareness of the Intuit brand and our product portfolio, and drive sales in retail. These programs include offline marketing such as TV and radio advertising; digital marketing such as display and pay-per-click advertising, search engine optimization, and social and affiliate marketing; email marketing; in-product marketing to drive awareness of related products and services; public relations; sponsorships; podcast marketing; mobile marketing; and retail marketing. Our campaigns are designed to attract new users, retain existing users, and cross-sell additional offerings. Sales and Distribution Channels Direct Sales Channel . We offer our products and services directly through our websites, apps, and call centers. Direct online sales are an effective channel for customers who can make purchase decisions based on content provided on our websites, or via other online content and word-of-mouth recommendations. For many of our products, assisted sales continues to be an effective channel for serving customers who want live help to select the products and services that are right for their needs. We also have a direct sales force that calls on accountants, bookkeepers, and marketing professionals, and seeks to increase their awareness, usage, and recommendation of our small business and professional tax solutions. For mid-market businesses, we have implemented and expanded our omnichannel go-to-market strategy by diversifying and growing our direct sales teams. Multi-Channel Shop-and-Buy Experiences . Our customers primarily research products and services online. Many customers buy and use our products and services entirely online. Some research online but make their purchase at a retail location. Because many customers shop across multiple channels, we continue to coordinate our online, offline, and retail presence and promotions to support an integrated, multi-channel shop-and-buy model. We also focus on cross-selling complementary Intuit and third-party offerings online and in-product. Mobile Application Stores . We distribute many of our offerings for mobile devices through proprietary online stores that provide applications for specific devices. Partner and Other Channels . We offer many of our products and services through partners and other channels, including value-added resellers, technology partners with complimentary platforms, accountants, bookkeepers, and marketing professionals, and professional service providers who help us reach new customers at the point of need and drive growth and market share by extending our online reach. These partners combine our products and services with marketing, sales, and technical expertise to deliver a complete solution at the local level. We also sell our QuickBooks Online and TurboTax Desktop offerings at retail locations across the United States and Canada and on retailer websites. Additionally, we sell our QuickBooks Enterprise software on retailer websites. In Canada, we also rely on distributors who sell products into the retail channel. COMPETITION We face intense competition in all of our businesses in all aspects across all markets for our products and services, which are rapidly evolving, fragmented, and have complex interdependencies with many businesses. Competitive pressures in many of the markets we serve have grown markedly over the past few years, and the marketing and distribution channels continue to evolve. We expect these trends to continue. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, successfully use and deploy new technologies such as AI that may reduce customer demand for our products or services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing, and other resources, have greater brand recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively, or beat us to market with new products and services. Intuit Fiscal 2024 Form 10-K 9 Tables of Contents The competitive landscape is also constantly evolving as we expand into new market segments and extend our capabilities, new companies emerge, and existing companies expand their capabilities (either directly or through acquisitions or partnerships) to include the markets in which we operate. Given the breadth of the products and services that we offer as a global financial technology company and the customer problems that we aim to solve, we compete with offerings from a variety of organizations across a range of industries, including large global companies, smalle