Item 1. Business Our Company IQVIA is a leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions, and clinical research services to the life sciences industry. IQVIA creates intelligent connections across all aspects of healthcare through its analytics, transformative technology, big data resources, extensive domain expertise and network of partners. IQVIA Connected Intelligence delivers actionable insights and powerful solutions with speed and agility enabling customers to accelerate the clinical development and commercialization of innovative medical treatments that improve healthcare outcomes for patients. With approximately 87,000 employees, we conduct operations in more than 100 countries. We are a global leader in protecting individual patient privacy. We use a wide variety of privacy-enhancing technologies and safeguards to protect individual privacy while generating and analyzing information on a scale that helps healthcare stakeholders identify disease patterns and correlate with the precise treatment path and therapy needed for better outcomes. Our insights and execution capabilities help biotech, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, medical researchers, government agencies, payers and other healthcare stakeholders tap into a deeper understanding of diseases, human behaviors and scientific advances, in an effort to advance their path toward cures. We have one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of healthcare information in the world, which includes more than 1.2 billion comprehensive, longitudinal, non-identified patient records spanning sales, prescription and promotional data, medical claims, electronic medical records, genomics, and social media. Our scaled and growing information set contains approximately 61 petabytes of unique proprietary data sourced from approximately 150,000 data suppliers and covering over one million data feeds globally. Based on this data, we deliver information and insights on over 90% of the world s pharmaceuticals, as measured by 2022 sales. We standardize, curate, structure and integrate this information by applying our sophisticated analytics and leveraging our global technology infrastructure. This helps our clients run their organizations more efficiently and make better decisions to improve their clinical, commercial and financial performance. We have developed a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent, actionable information offerings over a period of many years through innovation, expertise and hard work that differentiates our capabilities to support customers throughout the world. We combine our proprietary information assets with advanced analytics, transformative technology and domain expertise to develop clinical and commercial capabilities that enable us to grow our relationships with healthcare stakeholders throughout the life science s value chain. This set of capabilities includes: A leading healthcare-specific global IT infrastructure, representing what we believe is one of the largest and most sophisticated information technology ( IT ) infrastructures in healthcare. We receive approximately 120 billion healthcare records annually, and our infrastructure then connects complex healthcare data while applying a wide range of privacy, security, operational, legal and contractual protections for data in response to local law, supplier requirements and industry leading practices; Analytics-driven clinical development, which improves clinical trial design, site identification and patient recruitment by empowering therapeutic, scientific, and domain experts with expansive levels of information, including product level tracking in 94 markets, and information about treatments and outcomes on more than 1.2 billion unique non-identified patient records globally; Robust real world solutions ecosystem, with sophisticated retrospective database analytics, prospective real world data collection technology platforms and scientific expertise, which enables us to address critical healthcare issues of cost, value and patient outcomes; A growing set of proprietary clinical and commercial applications, which helps our clients increase their clinical operations performance, supports their regulatory and compliance needs and orchestrates their sales operations, sales management, multi-channel marketing and performance management; 5 Integration of information, analytics, technology, and domain expertise through IQVIA Connected Intelligence , which enables us to provide our clients with more effective options to address their needs from research and development through commercialization as well as truly innovative breakthroughs such as decentralized trials and global real-world evidence networks; and A staff of approximately 87,000 employees across the globe , including over 30,000 Technology Analytics Solutions employees, approximately 48,000 Research Development Solutions employees and approximately 7,000 Contract Sales Medical Solutions employees. Our Market Opportunity We compete in a market of greater than $330 billion consisting of outsourced research and development, real-world evidence and connected health and technology enabled clinical and commercial operations markets for life sciences companies and the broader healthcare industry. The following sets forth our estimates for the size of our principal markets: Outsourced research and development: Biopharmaceutical spending on drug development totaled approximately $184 billion in 2023. Of that amount, we estimate that our addressable opportunity (clinical development spending excluding preclinical spending) was approximately $99 billion. The portion of this addressable opportunity that was outsourced in 2023, based on our estimates, was approximately $50 billion. Real-World Evidence and connected health: Total addressable market of approximately $70 billion in 2023 that consists of tightly coupled life sciences and healthcare markets. First, the life sciences market for Real-World Evidence of approximately $30 billion includes post-launch evidence generation, market access, and medical affairs. Second, the addressable opportunity for connected healthcare is approximately $40 billion, and includes areas such as revenue cycle management, payer provider analytics and clinical decision support services. Technology enabled commercial operations: Total addressable market of approximately $80 billion in 2023 that includes information, data warehousing, IT outsourcing, software applications and other services in the broader market for IT services. This addressable opportunity also includes commercial services such as recruiting, training, deploying and managing global sales forces, channel management, patient engagement services, market access consulting, brand communication, advisory services, and health information analytics and technology consulting. In deriving estimates of the size of the various markets described above, we review third-party sources, which include estimates and forecasts of spending in various segments, in combination with internal IQVIA research and analysis informed by our experience serving these segments, as well as projected growth rates for each of these segments. See Industry and Market Data above. We believe there are six key trends affecting our end markets that will create increasing demand for research and development services, technology analytics solutions and contract sales and medical solutions: Growth and innovation in the life sciences industry. The life sciences industry is a large and critical part of the global healthcare system and, according to the latest information available from the IQVIA Market Prognosis service, is estimated to have generated approximately $1.63 trillion in revenues in 2023. According to the IQVIA Institute, it is estimated that spending on pharmaceuticals in emerging markets will expand at a 5% to 8% compound annual growth rate ( CAGR ) through 2028. The growth of emerging markets demonstrates their strategic importance to global life sciences organizations along with the emergence of local and regional companies with similar operational and informational needs. We expect all of these organizations to apply a high degree of sophistication to their commercial operations in these countries, especially as some begin to emerge as sources of original innovative products. For global companies, this requires highly localized knowledge and information assets, the development of market access strategies and performance benchmarking. In addition, local players are learning that they need to compete on the basis of improved information and analytics. 6 Growth in Research and Development. Spending trends in research and development are impacted as a result of several factors, including major biopharmaceutical companies efforts to replenish revenues lost from the so-called patent cliff, increased access to capital by the small and midcap biotechnology industry, and recent increases in pharmaceutical approvals by regulatory authorities. The IQVIA Institute also estimates that approximately 350 new molecular entities ( NMEs ) are expected to be approved between 2024 and 2028, or 70 per year compared to 61 per year on average during the past decade. We believe that further research and development spending, combined with the continued need for cost efficiency across the healthcare landscape, will continue to create opportunities for biopharmaceutical services companies, particularly those with a global reach and broad service offerings, to help biopharmaceutical companies with their pre- and post-launch solutions development and commercialization needs. The impact of recent legislative changes on product launch and industry innovation continues to be evaluated. IQVIA is involved with many stakeholders throughout the industry as we help navigate changes over the coming decade. Increased Complexity in Research and Development. Biopharmaceutical companies face environments in which it has become increasingly difficult to operate. Improved standards of care in many therapeutic areas and the emergence of new types of therapies, such as biologics, genetically targeted therapies, gene and stem cell therapies, and other treatment modalities have led to more complex development and regulatory pathways. We believe that our global clinical development capabilities, including our expertise in biomarkers and genomics and our global laboratory network, position us well to help biopharmaceutical companies manage the complexities inherent in an environment where this type of expertise is important. For example, IQVIA Connected Intelligence helps us validate protocols to ensure studies in new disease areas have greater accuracy and also enables us, through innovations such as predictive analytics, to find patients who may not have been diagnosed. Regulators require clinical trials to involve local populations as part of the process for approving new pharmaceutical products, especially in certain Asian and emerging markets. Understanding the epidemiological and physiological differences in different ethnic populations and being able to conduct clinical trials locally in certain geographies will be important to pharmaceutical product growth strategies, both for multinational and local/regional biopharmaceutical companies. We believe that our global clinical development capabilities and unmatched presence in Asia and other emerging markets make us a strong partner for biopharmaceutical companies managing the complexities of international drug development. Financial pressures driving the need for increased efficiency. Despite expected accelerating growth in the global life sciences market, we believe our clients will face increased operating margin pressure due to their changing product mix, pricing and reimbursement challenges, and rising costs of compliance. Product portfolios for life sciences companies have shifted toward specialty products with lower peak market sales potential than traditional primary care medicines. We believe that the need for biopharmaceutical companies to maximize productivity and lower costs across their processes from research and development through commercial operations will cause them to look to partners as they enter into outsourcing arrangements to improve efficiency. Further, our clients are looking for new ways to simplify processes and drive operational efficiencies by using automation, consolidating vendors and adopting new technology options such as hosted and cloud-based applications. This provides opportunities for technology services vendors to capture and consolidate the internal spending of life sciences companies by providing lower-cost and variable-cost options that lower clients research and development, selling, marketing and administrative costs. Evolving need to integrate and structure expanding sources of data. Over the past decade, many health systems around the world have focused on digitizing medical records. While such records theoretically enhance access to data, relevant information is often unintegrated, unstructured, siloed in disparate software systems, or entered inconsistently. In addition, new sources of data from the internet, such as social media and information on limited patient pools, and information resulting from enhanced diagnostic technologies are creating new sources of healthcare data. In order to derive valuable insights from existing and expanding sources of information, clients need access to statistically significant data sets organized into databases that can be queried and analyzed. For example, real-world evidence studies demonstrate practical and clinical efficacies, which we believe require the aggregation and integration of large clinical data sets across all care settings, types of therapies and patient cohorts. Longitudinal studies require analysis of non-identified patient diagnoses, treatments, procedures and laboratory test results to identify types of patients that will likely best respond to particular therapies. Finally, manufacturers also require the ability to analyze social media activity to identify unmet patient needs and support for new orphan drugs. This information is highly relevant to all healthcare stakeholders and we believe the opportunity to more broadly apply healthcare data can only be realized through structuring, organizing and integrating new and existing forms of data in conjunction with sophisticated analytics. 7 Need for demonstrated value in healthcare. Participants in the healthcare industry are focused on improving quality and reducing costs, both of which require assessment of quality and value of therapies and providers. As a result, physicians no longer make prescribing decisions in isolation, but rather in the context of guidance and rules from payers, integrated delivery networks and governments. We believe life sciences companies are working to bring alignment across constituents on the value of their treatments in order to successfully develop and commercialize new therapies. There is increasing pressure on life sciences companies to support and justify the value of their therapies. Many new drugs that are being approved are more expensive than existing therapies and will likely receive heightened scrutiny by regulators and payers to determine whether the existing treatment options would be sufficient. Additionally, many new specialty drugs are molecular-based therapies and require a more detailed understanding of clinical factors and influencers that demonstrate therapeutic value. As a result, leading life sciences companies are utilizing more sophisticated outcome research and data analytics services. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of these global trends in healthcare. Beyond our proprietary information assets, we have developed key capabilities to assess opportunities to develop and commercialize therapies, support and defend the value of medicines and help our clients operate more efficiently through the application of insight-driven decision-making and cost-efficient technology solutions. Our Growth Strategy We believe we are well positioned for continued growth across the markets we serve. Our strategy for achieving growth includes: Continue to innovate through our IQVIA Connected Intelligence by leveraging our information, advanced analytics, transformative technology and significant domain expertise. As a leader in the development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical therapies, we can empower our therapeutic, scientific and domain experts with expansive levels of information including product level tracking in 94 markets and information about treatments and outcomes on more than 1.2 billion unique non-identified patient records. By connecting this intelligence, we have the ability to optimize the clinical trial process and enable our clients to reduce costs and get their products to market more quickly through more informed site selection, faster patient recruitment practices and decentralized trials. We transform Real World Evidence by linking prospective and retrospective approaches and introduce innovation such as secondary control arms, which eliminate the need for a placebo group. We bring best in class Software as a Service ("SaaS") platforms, purpose built for life sciences, to our clients to help them run their clinical and commercial operations more efficiently. Build upon our extensive client relationships and leverage our global presence . We have a diversified base of over 10,000 clients in over 100 countries and have expanded our client value proposition to address a broader market for research and development and commercial operations which we estimate to be more than $330 billion in 2023. Through the combined offerings of research and development and commercial services we built a platform that allows us to be a more complete partner to our clients. Expand the penetration of our offerings to the broader healthcare marketplace. We believe that substantial opportunities exist to use our existing technology and domain expertise to serve additional healthcare stakeholders (payers, providers, healthcare professionals) to quantify and optimize cost of care delivery; provide registry technology to professional association and patient communities and support healthcare providers with system implementation and platform migration. Expand portfolio through strategic acquisitions. We have and expect to continue to acquire assets and businesses that strengthen our value proposition to clients. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate and integrate acquisitions that have created value for stockholders. As the global healthcare landscape evolves, we expect that there will be a growing number of acquisition opportunities across the life sciences, payer and provider sectors. We expect to continue to invest in or explore opportunities for strategic acquisitions to grow our platform and enhance our ability to provide more services to our clients. Our Offerings We offer hundreds of distinct services, applications, technology platforms and solutions to help our clients make critical decisions and perform better. We have three reportable segments: Technology Analytics Solutions, Research Development Solutions and Contract Sales Medical Solutions. Their offerings complement each other and can provide enhanced value to our clients when delivered together, with each driving demand for the other. 8 Our Technology Analytics Solutions offerings include: Technology platforms . We provide an extensive range of cloud-based applications and associated implementation services. SaaS solutions that support a wide range of commercial and clinical processes, including customer relationship management ( CRM ), performance management, real-world evidence generation, compliance and safety reporting, incentive compensation, territory alignment, roster management, call planning, multi-channel marketing, and master data management. These solutions are used by healthcare companies to manage, optimize and execute their clinical and commercial strategies in an orchestrated manner while addressing their regulatory obligations. Using proprietary algorithms, we combine our country-level data, healthcare expertise and therapeutic knowledge in over 100 countries to create our Global Market Insight family of offerings such as MIDAS, Analytics Link and Disease Insights, which provides a leading source of insight into international market dynamics and are used by most large pharmaceutical companies. Real World Solutions . We enable life sciences and provider customers to generate and disseminate evidence in a cost-efficient manner which informs health care decision making and ultimately improves patients outcomes. Our use of a wide range of privacy and security safeguards protect non-identified patient-level medical claims, prescriptions, electronic medical records, genomics, patient reported outcome and social media data. Our scaled information networks include more than 1.2 billion unique non-identified patient records globally, as well as access to profiles of over 3,400 real world data assets in more than 100 countries uniquely facilitating data discoverability for healthcare research via the IQVIA Health Data Catalog. We technology-enable these data flows by harmonizing them to common data models and loading them onto our proprietary evidence platforms for secure access by our customers. We provide access to deep clinical data in Oncology, Rare Disease, and other specialty areas. Our Natural Language Processing capabilities help us create structured data from unstructured clinical notes. We help our global customers across payers, providers, governments, and biopharmaceutical companies to answer critical questions about healthcare interventions related to safety, effectiveness, and value. We also bring together stakeholders across healthcare to collaborate in efforts to develop new information sources, more effective reimbursement models, and better patient outcomes. Analytics and consulting services. We provide a broad set of strategic and implementation consulting services, including advanced analytics and commercial processes outsourcing services to help the commercial operations of life sciences companies successfully transform their commercial models, engage more effectively with healthcare stakeholders and reduce their operating costs. We also help our client s research and development function to address strategic challenges in the drug development process. Our global teams leverage local market knowledge, deep scientific and therapeutic area expertise and our global information resources to assist our clients with research and development strategy, portfolio, brand and commercial strategy, as well as pricing and market access and launch excellence. Information offerings . Our national offerings comprise unique services in over 100 countries that provide consistent country level performance metrics related to sales of pharmaceutical products, prescribing trends, medical treatment and promotional activity across multiple channels including retail, hospital and mail order. Our sub-national offerings comprise unique services in over 70 countries that provide a consistent measurement of sales or prescribing activity at the regional, zip code and individual prescriber level (depending on regulation in the relevant country). Our widely used reference database tracks over 25 million healthcare professionals in over 100 countries, providing a comprehensive view of health care practitioners that is critical for the commercial success of our clients marketing and sales initiatives. Our Research Development Solutions offerings include: Project Management and Clinical Monitoring. Drawing upon our years of experience, our site databases, our site relationships and our highly trained staff, our solutions and services enables the efficient conduct and coordination of multi-site clinical trials (generally Phase II-IV). Our service offerings include protocol design, feasibility and operational planning, site start up, patient recruitment and clinical site monitoring. By infusing technology into field-based monitoring, we are able to reduce data collection steps and time. Clinical Trial Support Services. Each clinical trial requires a number of concurrent services and data streams. We offer a broad range of functional services and consultation to support clinical trials through specialized expertise that help clients efficiently collect, analyze and report the quality data and evidence they need to gain regulatory approval. 9 Laboratory Services. We provide our clients globally scaled end-to-end clinical trial laboratory and research services. Our offerings include the full range of central laboratory, genomic, bioanalytical, ADME, discovery, vaccine and biomarker laboratory services along with sample and consent tracking services. Strategic Planning and Design. By bringing our data science capabilities to our strategic planning and design services, we offer consultation services to improve decisions and performance including portfolio, program and protocol planning and design, biomarker consultation, benefit-risk management, regulatory affairs, biostatistics, modeling and simulation, and personalized medicine. Patient and Site Centric Solutions. A comprehensive suite of technology and site support services which create custom strategies to engage and retain patients. Included is our site management organization Avacare Clinical Research Network, which orchestrates the activities of over 200 investigators and extends solutions to patients across more than 20 therapeutic indications in nearly 50 locations. Additionally, our decentralized approaches and technologies support sites and sponsors through direct-to-patient recruitment, remote nursing, data entry, and study coordinator resources. Our solutions reduce study burden and foster a supportive, patient-centric journey. Our Contract Sales Medical Solutions offerings include: Health Care Provider Engagement Services. We partner with biopharmaceutical companies and other life sciences providers (e.g., medical device companies) to develop and deploy tailored stakeholder engagement solutions, including contract sales and market access professionals, which are focused on product sales and improving brand value at all stages of the product lifecycle from initial market entry to brands nearing patent expiry. Patient Engagement Services. Our nurse-based programs directly engage with patients to help improve their disease and medication understanding through interventional and non-interventional support, while also providing assistance in navigating complex reimbursement coverage issues. Our patient engagement services combine insight from clinical trials and social listening, behavioral design, personal and innovative eHealth multichannel interactions across multiple sites (e.g., the physician s office, hospital, pharmacy, home), that act as an extension of the Health Care Provider prescribed treatment course which can lead to improved adherence and better overall outcomes. Medical Affairs Services. We provide a range of scientific strategy and medical affairs services to help biopharmaceutical companies plan and transition from the clinical trial setting to commercialization. Beginning in the clinical trial stage, our services can deploy educators to clinical trial sites to accelerate patient recruitment and improve retention, assist in translation of complex clinical trial data into a compelling scientific platform and publication strategy, and, provide field medical teams to facilitate scientific engagement with key opinion leaders and healthcare decision makers, before and after product approval. Our Clients Sales to companies in life sciences, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, device and diagnostic companies, and consumer health companies, account for the majority of our revenues. Nearly all of the top 100 global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, measured by revenues, are clients, and many of these companies subscribe to reports and services in many countries. Other clients include payers, government and regulatory agencies, providers, pharmaceutical distributors, and pharmacies. Our client base is broad in scope and enables us to avoid dependence on any single client. No single client accounted for 10% or more of our total Company revenues in 2023, 2022 or 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2023 the largest client based on its percentage of total Company revenues contributed approximately 5% . 10 Our Competition Our Technology Analytics Solutions business competes with a broad and diverse set of businesses. While we believe no competitor provides the combination of geographical reach and breadth of our services, we generally compete in the countries in which we operate with other information, analytics, technology, services and consulting companies, as well as with the in-house capabilities of our clients. Also, we compete with certain government agencies, private payers and other healthcare stakeholders that provide their data directly to others. In addition to country-by-country competition, we have a number of regional and global competitors in the marketplace as well. Our offerings compete with various firms, including Accenture, Aetion, Panalgo (a Norstella company), Cognizant Technology Solutions, Fortrea, Deloitte, Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. (now part of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.), Relx, IBM, Infosys, Cerner (an Oracle company), McKinsey, NielsenIQ, Optum Insight, Parexel International Corporation, Press Ganey, RTI Health Solutions, ICON plc, Definitive Healthcare, Cegedim, Tempus, Merative, CompuGroup Medical, Medidata, Clar