Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 21 Item 2. Properties 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 67 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 69 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 69 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 70 Item 9B. Other Information 72 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 73 Item 11. Executive Compensation 73 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 73 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 73 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 73 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 73 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 171 ii Table of Contents References in this Annual Report to "the Company," "Iron Mountain," "we," "us" or "our" include Iron Mountain Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, and its predecessor, as applicable, and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have made statements in this Annual Report that constitute "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other securities laws. These forward-looking statements concern our operations, economic performance, financial condition, goals, beliefs, future growth strategies, investment objectives, plans and current expectations, such as our (1) commitment to future dividend payments, (2) expected change in volume of records stored with us, (3) expected organic revenue growth, including 2020 consolidated organic storage rental revenue growth rate and consolidated organic total revenue growth rate, (4) expectations that profits will increase in our growth portfolio, including our higher-growth markets, and that our growth portfolio will become a larger part of our business over time, (5) expectations related to our revenue management programs and continuous improvement initiatives, (6) expectations related to our leverage ratio and capital requirements, (7) expected ability to identify and complete acquisitions and drive returns on invested capital, (8) anticipated capital expenditures, and (9) expected benefits, costs and actions related to Project Summit (as defined and discussed below). These forward-looking statements are subject to various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. When we use words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates" or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Although we believe that our forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. In addition, important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, among others: our ability to remain qualified for taxation as a real estate investment trust for United States federal income tax purposes ("REIT"); the adoption of alternative technologies and shifts by our customers to storage of data through non-paper based technologies; changes in customer preferences and demand for our storage and information management services; our ability or inability to execute our strategic growth plan, expand internationally, complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms, and to integrate acquired companies efficiently; changes in the amount of our growth and maintenance capital expenditures and our ability to raise capital and invest according to plan; our ability to execute on Project Summit and the potential impacts of Project Summit on our ability to retain and recruit employees and execute on our strategy; the cost and our ability to comply with laws, regulations and customer demands relating to data security and privacy issues, as well as fire and safety standards; the impact of litigation or disputes that may arise in connection with incidents in which we fail to protect our customers' information or our internal records or information technology ("IT") systems and the impact of such incidents on our reputation and ability to compete; changes in the price for our storage and information management services relative to the cost of providing such storage and information management services; changes in the political and economic environments in the countries in which our international subsidiaries operate and changes in the global political climate; the impact of executing on our growth strategy through joint ventures; our ability to comply with our existing debt obligations and restrictions in our debt instruments or to obtain additional financing to meet our working capital needs; the impact of service interruptions or equipment damage and the cost of power on our data center operations; changes in the cost of our debt; the impact of alternative, more attractive investments on dividends; the cost or potential liabilities associated with real estate necessary for our business; the performance of business partners upon whom we depend for technical assistance or management expertise; and other trends in competitive or economic conditions affecting our financial condition or results of operations not presently contemplated. Other risks may adversely impact us, as described more fully under "