Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 Item 2. Properties 51 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 51 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 51 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 52 Item 6. [RESERVED] 54 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 55 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 80 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 81 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 119 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 119 Item 9B. Other Information 119 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 120 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 121 Item 11. Executive Compensation 121 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 121 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 121 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 121 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 122 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 123 SIGNATURES 124 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements relate to expectations concerning matters that are not historical facts. Words such as estimates, projects, believes, anticipates, plans, expects, intends, may, will, could, should, would, targeted, and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the expected impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, the potential impact on our procedure volume, our acquisitions, our expected business, our expected new product introductions, the impacts of Extended Use Instruments, procedures and procedure adoption, future results of operations, future financial position, our ability to increase our revenues, the anticipated mix of our revenues between product and service revenues, our financing plans and future capital requirements, anticipated costs of revenue, anticipated expenses, our potential tax assets or liabilities, the effect of recent accounting pronouncements, our investments, anticipated cash flows, our ability to finance operations from cash flows and similar matters, and statements based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the economies and markets in which we operate and our beliefs and assumptions regarding these economies and markets. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of various important factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the risk that the COVID-19 pandemic could lead to further material delays and cancellations of, or reduced demand for, procedures; curtailed or delayed capital spending by hospitals; disruption to our supply chain, including increased difficulties in obtaining a sufficient supply of materials in the semiconductor and other markets; closures of our facilities; delays in surgeon training; delays in gathering clinical evidence; delays in obtaining new product approvals, clearances, or certifications from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; the evaluation of the risks of robotic-assisted surgery in the presence of infectious diseases; diversion of management and other resources to respond to COVID-19 outbreaks; the impact of global and regional economic and credit market conditions on healthcare spending; the risk that the COVID-19 virus disrupts local economies and causes economies in our key markets to enter prolonged recessions; the risk of our inability to comply with complex FDA and other regulations, which may result in significant enforcement actions; healthcare reform legislation in the U.S. and its impact on hospital spending, reimbursement, and fees levied on certain medical device revenues; changes in hospital admissions and actions by payers to limit or manage surgical procedures; the timing and success of product development and market acceptance of developed products; the results of any collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships, including the joint venture with Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd.; our completion of and ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, including Orpheus Medical; procedure counts; regulatory approvals, clearances, certifications, and restrictions or any dispute that may occur with any regulatory body; guidelines and recommendations in the healthcare and patient communities; intellectual property positions and litigation; competition in the medical device industry and in the specific markets of surgery in which we operate; risks associated with our operations outside of the United States; unanticipated manufacturing disruptions or the inability to meet demand for products; our reliance on sole and single source suppliers; the results of legal proceedings to which we are or may become a party; product liability and other litigation claims; adverse publicity regarding us and the safety of our products and adequacy of training; our ability to expand into foreign markets; the impact of changes to tax legislation, guidance, and interpretations; changes in tariffs, trade barriers, and regulatory requirements; and other risk factors. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Risks are described throughout this filing, particularly in Part I,