Item 1. Business 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 57 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 57 Item 2. Properties 58 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 59 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 59 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 60 Item 6. [RESERVED] 61 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 62 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 87 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 88 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 126 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 126 Item 9B. Other Information 127 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 127 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers , and Corporate Governance 128 Item 11. Executive Compensation 128 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 128 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 128 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 128 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 129 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 130 SIGNATURES 131 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements relate to expectations concerning matters that are not historical facts. Statements using words such as estimates, projects, believes, anticipates, plans, expects, intends, may, will, could, should, would, targeted, and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future results of operations, future financial condition, the expected impacts of COVID-19 on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, our financing plans and future capital requirements, our potential tax assets or liabilities, and statements based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the economies and markets in which we operate and our beliefs and assumptions regarding these economies and markets. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the judgment of our management and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of various important factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the overall macroeconomic environment, which may impact customer spending and our costs, including the levels of inflation and interest rates; the conflict in Ukraine; the conflict between Israel and Hamas; disruption to our supply chain, including increased difficulties in obtaining a sufficient supply of materials in the semiconductor and other markets; curtailed or delayed capital spending by hospitals; the impact of global and regional economic and credit market conditions on healthcare spending; the risk that COVID-19 could lead to material delays and cancellations of, or reduced demand for, procedures; closures of our facilities; delays in surgeon training; delays in gathering clinical evidence; delays in obtaining new product approvals, clearances, or certifications from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ), comparable regulatory authorities, or notified bodies; diversion of resources to respond to COVID-19 outbreaks; the risk of our inability to comply with complex FDA and other regulations, which may result in significant enforcement actions; regulatory approvals, clearances, certifications, and restrictions or any dispute that may occur with any regulatory body; guidelines and recommendations in the healthcare and patient communities; healthcare reform legislation in the U.S. and its impact on hospital spending, reimbursement, and fees levied on certain medical device revenues; changes in hospital admissions and actions by payers to limit or manage surgical procedures; the timing and success of product development and market acceptance of developed products; the results of any collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships, including the joint venture with Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd.; our completion of and ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; procedure counts; intellectual property positions and litigation; competition in the medical device industry and in the specific markets of surgery in which we operate; risks associated with our operations and any expansion outside of the United States; unanticipated manufacturing disruptions or the inability to meet demand for products; our reliance on sole- and single-sourced suppliers; the results of legal proceedings to which we are or may become a party, including, but not limited to, product liability claims; adverse publicity regarding us and the safety of our products and adequacy of training; the impact of changes to tax legislation, guidance, and interpretations; changes in tariffs, trade barriers, and regulatory requirements; and other risks and uncertainties, including those listed under the caption Risk Factors. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report and which are based on current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Additional risks are described throughout this report, particularly in Part I,