ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 6 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 14 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 14 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 14 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES (not applicable) 14 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 15 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 16 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 18 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 32 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 33 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 33 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 34 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 34 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 35 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 35 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 35 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 35 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 35 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 36 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 39 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 41 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 42 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 43 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 44 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 45 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 46 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 86 SIGNATURES 87 2 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. GENERAL Gartner, Inc. (NYSE: IT) is the world s leading research and advisory company and a member of the S P 500. We equip business leaders with indispensable insights, advice and tools to achieve their mission-critical priorities today and build the successful organizations of tomorrow. We believe our unmatched combination of expert-led, practitioner-sourced and data-driven research steers clients toward the right decisions on the issues that matter most. We are a trusted advisor and an objective resource for more than 15,000 enterprises in more than 100 countries across all major functions, in every industry and enterprise size. Gartner delivers its products and services globally through three business segments Research, Conferences and Consulting, as described below. Research provides trusted, objective insights and advice on the mission-critical priorities of leaders across all functional areas of an enterprise through reports, briefings, proprietary tools, access to our research experts, peer networking services and membership programs that enable our clients to drive organizational performance. Conferences provides business professionals across an organization the opportunity to learn, share and network. From our Gartner Symposium/Xpo series, to industry-leading conferences focused on specific business roles and topics, to peer-driven sessions, our offerings enable attendees to experience the best of Gartner insight and advice live. Consulting combines the power of Gartner market-leading research with custom analysis and on-the-ground support to help chief information officers and other senior executives driving technology-related strategic initiatives move confidently from insight to action. The fiscal year of Gartner is the twelve-month period from January 1 through December 31. All references to 2019 , 2018 and 2017 herein refer to the fiscal year unless otherwise indicated. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms Gartner, the Company, we, us or our refer to Gartner, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. MARKET OVERVIEW Enterprise leaders face enormous pressure to stay ahead and grow profitably amidst constant change. Whether it is an impending transition to digital business or large-scale regulatory changes, business leaders today are facing more disruptive change than ever before. No enterprise can be operationally effective unless it incorporates the right strategy, management and technology decisions into every part of its business. This requirement affects all business levels, functions and roles. Chief financial officers, heads of human resources, chief marketing officers, chief information officers, and other executives and leaders across all enterprises turn to Gartner for decision-making guidance and execution support to achieve their mission-critical priorities. OUR SOLUTION We believe our unmatched combination of expert-led, practitioner-sourced and data-driven research steers clients toward the right decisions and actions on the issues that matter most. We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and leverages the breadth and depth of our intellectual capital. The foundation of our business model is our ability to create and distribute our proprietary research content as broadly as possible via published reports, interactive tools, facilitated peer networking, briefings, consulting and advisory services, and our conferences, including the Gartner Symposium/Xpo series. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our diversified business model provides multiple entry points and sources of value for our clients that facilitate increased client spending on our research and advisory services, conferences and consulting services. A critical part of our long-term strategy is to increase business volume and penetration with our most valuable clients, identifying relationships with the greatest sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering strategically relevant research and advice. We also seek to extend the Gartner brand name to develop new client relationships, augment our sales capacity and expand into new markets around the world. In addition, we seek to increase our revenue and operating cash flow through more effective pricing of our products and services. These initiatives have created additional revenue streams through more effective packaging, campaigning and cross-selling of our products and services. 3 Our principal products and services are delivered through our three business segments, as described below. RESEARCH. Gartner delivers independent, objective advice to leaders across an enterprise through subscription services that include on-demand access to published research content, data and benchmarks, and direct access to a network of approximately 2,300 research experts located around the globe. Gartner research is the fundamental building block for all Gartner products and services. We combine our proprietary research methodologies with extensive industry and academic relationships to create Gartner products and services that address each role across an enterprise. Within the Research segment, Global Technology Sales ("GTS") sells products and services to users and providers of technology, while Global Business Sales ("GBS") sells products and services to all other functional leaders, such as supply chain, marketing, HR, finance, legal and sales. Our research agenda is defined by clients needs, focusing on the critical issues, opportunities and challenges they face every day. We are in steady contact with over 15,000 distinct client enterprises worldwide. We publish tens of thousands of pages of original research annually, and our research experts have more than 400,000 direct client interactions every year. Our size and scale enable us to commit vast resources toward broader and deeper research coverage and to deliver insight to our clients based on what they need and where they are. The ongoing interaction of our research experts with our clients enables us to identify the most pertinent topics to them and develop relevant product and service enhancements to meet the evolving needs of users of our research. Our proprietary research content, presented in the form of reports, briefings, updates and related tools, is delivered directly to the client s desktop via our website and/or product-specific portals. Clients normally sign subscription contracts that provide access to our research content and advisory services for individual users over a defined period. We typically have a minimum contract period of twelve months for our research and advisory subscription contracts and, at December 31, 2019 , a significant portion of our contracts were multi-year. CONFERENCES. Gartner attracts more than 85,000 business and technology professionals to its 70+ destination conferences worldwide each year. Attendees experience sessions led by Gartner research experts, cutting-edge technology solutions, peer exchange workshops, one-on-one analyst and advisor meetings, consulting diagnostic workshops, keynotes and more. Our conferences also provide attendees with an opportunity to interact with business executives from the world s leading technology companies. In addition to role-specific summits and workshop-style seminars, Gartner hosts the Gartner Symposium/Xpo series, including its unique, flagship IT Symposium/Xpo , which is held at nine locations worldwide annually. We also host 700+ more intimate live meetings each year for peer collaboration, and 240+ exclusive C-level meetings through the Evanta brand. CONSULTING. Through its experienced consultants, Gartner Consulting serves chief information officers and other senior executives who are driving technology-related strategic initiatives to optimize technology investments and drive business impact. Gartner Consulting combines the power of Gartner s market-leading research with custom analysis and on-the-ground support to help clients to turn insights and advice into action and impact. Consulting solutions capitalize on Gartner assets that are invaluable to information technology ("IT") decision-making, including: (1) our extensive research, which ensures that our consulting analyses and advice are based on a deep understanding of the IT environment and the business of IT; (2) our market independence, which keeps our consultants focused on our clients' success; and (3) our market-leading benchmarking capabilities, which provide relevant comparisons and best practices to assess and improve performance. Additionally, we provide actionable solutions for a range of IT-related priorities, including IT cost optimization, technology modernization and IT sourcing optimization. COMPETITION We believe that the principal factors that differentiate us from our competitors are as follows: Superior research content - We believe that we create the broadest, highest-quality and most relevant research coverage across all major functional roles in an enterprise. Our independent operating model and research analysis generates unbiased insight that we believe is timely, thought-provoking and comprehensive, and that is known for its high quality, independence and objectivity. Our leading brand name - We have provided critical, trusted insight under the Gartner name for more than 40 years. Our global footprint and established customer base - We have a global presence with clients in more than 100 countries on six continents. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales outside of the United States. 4 Experienced management team - Our management team is comprised of research veterans and experienced industry executives with long tenure at Gartner. Substantial operating leverage in our business model - We can distribute our intellectual property and expertise across multiple platforms, including research and advisory subscription and membership programs, conferences and consulting engagements, to derive incremental revenue and profitability. Vast network of research experts and consultants - As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 2,300 research experts and 780+ experienced consultants located around the world. Our research experts are located in more than 30 countries, enabling us to cover vast aspects of business and technology on a global basis. Notwithstanding these differentiating factors, we face competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services. We compete indirectly with consulting firms and other data and information providers, including electronic and print media companies. These indirect competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition, we face competition from free sources of information that are available to our clients through the internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. While we believe the breadth and depth of our research positions us well versus our competition, increased competition could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing, and increased sales and marketing expenditures. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success has resulted in part from proprietary methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership, and the use and protection of Gartner s intellectual property. We also enter into agreements with our employees and third parties as appropriate that protect our intellectual property, and we enforce these agreements if necessary. We recognize the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace and vigorously identify, create and protect it. Additionally, we actively monitor and enforce contract compliance by our end users. EMPLOYEES We had a total of 16,724 employees at December 31, 2019 , an increase of 10% when compared to 15,173 employees at December 31, 2018 . The overall growth in the number of employees was due, in part, to an increase in the total number of quota-bearing sales associates during 2019 . We had 9,468 employees, or 57% of our total employees, located in the United States at December 31, 2019 in approximately 45 offices. At such date, we had 1,314 employees located at our headquarters facility in Stamford, Connecticut and nearby; 2,040 employees located at our Fort Myers, Florida offices; 1,457 employees located in Arlington, Virginia; 847 employees located in Irving, Texas; and 3,810 employees located elsewhere in the United States. We had 7,256 employees, or 43% of our total employees, located outside of the United States at December 31, 2019 in approximately 75 offices. At such date, 1,616 employees were located in Gurgaon, India; 1,180 employees were located in Egham, the United Kingdom; and 4,460 employees were located elsewhere in the world. Our employees may be subject to collective bargaining agreements at a company or industry level, or works councils, in those foreign countries where such arrangements are part of the local labor law or practice. We have experienced no work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be favorable. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS Our U.S. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the U.S. Congress to fund the agencies contracting for our products and services. Additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. Certain of these contracts may be terminated at any time by the government entity without cause or penalty. 5 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Company's financial information by business segment for the three-year period ended December 31, 2019 is provided in Note 16 Segment Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information regarding revenues by business segment is provided in Note 9 Revenue and Related Matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our internet address is gartner.com and the Investor Relations section of our website is at investor.gartner.com . We make available free of charge, on or through the Investor Relations section of our website, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing we make with the SEC. Also available at investor.gartner.com , under the Governance link, are printable and current copies of our: (i) CEO and CFO Code of Ethics, which applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and other financial managers; (ii) Global Code of Conduct, which applies to all Gartner officers, directors and employees, wherever located; (iii) Principles and Practices of the Board of Directors of Gartner, Inc., the corporate governance principles that have been adopted by our Board; and (iv) charters for each of the Board s standing committees: Audit, Compensation and Governance/Nominating.