ITEM 1. BUSINESS 2 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 6 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 17 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 17 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 17 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES (not applicable) 17 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 18 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 18 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 18 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 31 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 31 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 32 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 32 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 32 ITEM 9 C . DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 32 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 33 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 33 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 33 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 33 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 33 PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 34 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 37 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 39 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 40 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 41 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 42 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY 43 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 44 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 79 SIGNATURES 80 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. GENERAL Gartner, Inc. (NYSE: IT) delivers actionable, objective insight to executives and their teams. Our expert guidance and tools enable faster, smarter decisions and stronger performance on an organization s mission critical priorities. We are a trusted advisor and an objective resource for more than 15,000 enterprises in approximately 100 countries and territories across all major functions, in every industry and enterprise size. Gartner delivers its products and services globally through three business segments Research, Conferences and Consulting, as described below. Research equips executives and their teams from every function and across all industries with actionable, objective insight, guidance and tools. Our experienced experts deliver all this value informed by a combination of practitioner-sourced and data-driven research to help our clients address their mission critical priorities. Conferences provides executives and teams across an organization the opportunity to learn, share and network. From our Gartner Symposium/Xpo series, to industry-leading conferences focused on specific business roles and topics, to peer-driven sessions, our offerings enable attendees to experience the best of Gartner insight and guidance. Consulting serves senior executives leading technology-driven strategic initiatives leveraging the power of Gartner s actionable, objective insight. Through custom analysis and on-the-ground support we enable optimized technology investments and stronger performance on our clients mission critical priorities. The fiscal year of Gartner is the twelve-month period from January 1 through December 31. All references to 2021, 2020 and 2019 herein refer to the fiscal year unless otherwise indicated. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms Gartner, the Company, we, us or our refer to Gartner, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. MARKET OVERVIEW Enterprise leaders face enormous pressure to stay ahead and grow profitably amidst constant changes. Whether it is a digital transformation, a global health crisis, large-scale regulatory changes, or other unique challenges, business leaders today are facing significant disruptive changes. We believe that enterprises cannot be operationally effective unless they incorporate the right strategy, management and technology decisions into every part of their business. This requirement affects all business levels, functions and roles. Executives and their teams turn to Gartner for decision-making and execution guidance to achieve their mission critical priorities. OUR SOLUTION We believe our combination of expert-led, practitioner-sourced and data-driven research steers clients toward the right decisions and actions on the issues that matter most. Organizations are overrun with data and information. Gartner helps eliminate this information chaos and provides clarity with actionable, objective insight. We employ a diversified business model that utilizes and leverages the breadth and depth of our differentiated intellectual capital. The foundation of our business model is our ability to create and distribute our proprietary research content as broadly as possible via published reports, interactive tools, facilitated peer networking, briefings and direct communications with executives and their teams; our conferences, including the Gartner Symposium/Xpo series; and consulting and advisory services. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our diversified business model provides multiple entry points and sources of value for our clients that lead to increased client spending on our research and advisory services, conferences and consulting services. A critical part of our long-term strategy is to increase business volume and penetration with our most valuable clients, identifying relationships with the greatest sales potential and expanding those relationships by offering strategically relevant research and insight. We also seek to extend the Gartner brand name to develop new client relationships, augment our sales capacity and expand into new markets around the world. These initiatives have created additional revenue streams through more effective packaging, campaigning and cross-selling of our products and services. In addition, we seek to increase our revenue and operating cash flow through more effective pricing of our products and services. 2 Our principal products and services are delivered through our three business segments, as described below. RESEARCH. Gartner delivers independent, objective advice to leaders across an enterprise through subscription services that include on-demand access to published research content, data and benchmarks, and direct access to a network of approximately 2,200 research experts located around the globe. Gartner research is the fundamental building block for all Gartner products and services. We combine our proprietary research methodologies with extensive industry and academic relationships to create Gartner products and services that address each role across an enterprise. Within the Research segment, Global Technology Sales ( GTS ) sells products and services to users and providers of technology, while Global Business Sales ( GBS ) sells products and services to all other functional leaders, such as human resources, supply chain, marketing, and finance. Our research agenda is defined by clients needs, focusing on the critical issues, opportunities and challenges they face every day. We are in steady contact with more than 15,000 distinct client enterprises worldwide. We publish tens of thousands of pages of original research annually, and our research experts had more than 495,000 direct client interactions in 2021. Our size and scale enable us to commit vast resources toward broader and deeper research coverage and to deliver insight to our clients based on what they need and where they are. The ongoing interaction of our research experts with our clients enables us to identify the most pertinent topics to them and develop relevant product and service enhancements to meet the evolving needs of users of our research. Our proprietary research content, presented in the form of reports, briefings, updates and related tools, is delivered directly to the client s computer or mobile device via our website and/or product-specific portals. Clients normally sign subscription contracts that provide access to our research content and advisory services for individual users over a defined period. We typically have a minimum contract period of twelve months for our research and advisory subscription contracts and, at December 31, 2021, a significant portion of our contracts were multi-year. CONFERENCES. Gartner conferences are designed for IT and business executives as well as decision makers looking to adapt and evolve their organizations through disruption and uncertainty, navigate risks and prioritize investments. Attendees experience sessions led by Gartner research experts, and the sessions include cutting-edge technology solutions, peer exchange workshops, one-on-one analyst and advisor meetings, consulting diagnostic workshops, keynotes and more. Our conferences also provide attendees with an opportunity to interact with business executives from the world s leading companies. In addition to role-specific summits and workshop-style seminars, Gartner hosts the Gartner Symposium/Xpo series, including its unique, flagship IT Symposium/Xpo , which is usually held at nine locations worldwide annually. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, Gartner attracted more than 85,000 business and technology professionals to its 70+ destination conferences worldwide in 2019. We also hosted 700+ live meetings each year for peer collaboration and networking, and 240+ exclusive C-level meetings through the Evanta brand. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we pivoted to producing virtual conferences with a focus on maximizing the value we deliver for our clients. During 2021, Gartner successfully held 39 virtual conferences with more than 57,000 attendees, including eight Symposiums/Xpos. In addition, during 2021 we hosted 450+ virtual peer networking meetings, and through the Evanta brand we hosted 550+ exclusive C-level virtual meetings. CONSULTING. Through its experienced consultants, Gartner Consulting serves chief information officers and other senior executives who are driving technology-related strategic initiatives to optimize technology investments and drive business impact. Gartner Consulting combines the power of Gartner s market-leading research with custom analysis and on-the-ground support to help clients to turn insight and advice into action and impact. Consulting solutions capitalize on Gartner assets that are invaluable to information technology ( IT ) decision-making, including: (1) our extensive research, which ensures that our consulting analyses and advice are based on a deep understanding of the IT environment and the business of IT; (2) our market independence, which keeps our consultants focused on our clients success; and (3) our market-leading benchmarking capabilities, which provide relevant comparisons and best practices to assess and improve performance. Additionally, we provide actionable solutions for a range of IT-related priorities, including IT cost optimization, digital transformation and IT sourcing optimization. COMPETITION We believe that the principal factors that differentiate us from our competitors are as follows: Superior research content - We believe that we create the broadest, highest-quality and most relevant research coverage across all major functional roles in an enterprise. Our independent operating model and research analysis generates 3 unbiased insight that we believe is timely, thought-provoking and comprehensive, and that is known for its high quality, independence and objectivity. Our leading brand name - We have provided critical, trusted insight under the Gartner name for more than 40 years. Our global footprint and established customer base - We have a global presence with clients in approximately 100 countries and territories on six continents. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales outside of the United States. Insight that creates connections - Our global community of experts, analysts and peers help provide the deep relationships that help clients stay ahead of the curve. Experienced management team - Our management team is comprised of research veterans and experienced industry executives with long tenure at Gartner. Substantial operating leverage in our business model - We can distribute our intellectual property and expertise across multiple platforms, including research and advisory subscription and membership programs, conferences and consulting engagements, to derive incremental revenue and profitability. Vast network of research experts and consultants - As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 2,200 research experts and 760 experienced consultants located around the world. Our research experts are located in more than 30 countries and territories, enabling us to cover vast aspects of business and technology on a global basis. Notwithstanding these differentiating factors, we face competition from a significant number of independent providers of information products and services. We compete indirectly with consulting firms and other data and information providers, including electronic and print media companies. These indirect competitors could choose to compete directly with us in the future. In addition, we face competition from free sources of information that are available to our clients through the internet. Limited barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we do business. As a result, new competitors may emerge and existing competitors may start to provide additional or complementary services. While we believe the breadth and depth of our research positions us well versus our competition, increased competition could result in loss of market share, diminished value in our products and services, reduced pricing, and increased sales and marketing expenditures. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success has resulted in part from proprietary methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, confidentiality, non-compete and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. We have policies related to confidentiality, ownership, and the use and protection of Gartner s intellectual property. We also enter into agreements with our employees and third parties as appropriate that protect our intellectual property, and we enforce these agreements if necessary. We recognize the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace and vigorously identify, create and protect it. Additionally, we actively monitor and enforce contract compliance by our end users. HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT We believe our people are our most valuable asset, enabling our long track record of global growth. From attracting diverse talent through our recruitment process to cultivating that talent with learning and development opportunities and rewards for strong performers to supporting overall wellness with meaningful benefits and engagement, we strive to put our people first. At December 31, 2021, we had approximately 16,600 employees globally, and the overwhelming majority of our employees were full time. Gartner is committed to providing equal employment opportunities to all applicants and employees without regard to any legally protected status. This commitment is formalized in our global and U.S. equal employment opportunity policies. We continually renew this commitment by seeking to optimize our recruitment and professional development processes, create networking and educational opportunities, celebrate heritage and history, encourage community service and outreach, and create safe spaces for all employees. Our human capital management strategies are developed by executive management and overseen by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 4 We foster an environment of professional development to help our employees reach their full potential through a culture of continuous improvement. This includes embracing diversity and actively removing barriers to support inclusion, engagement and growth at Gartner. Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ( DEI ) Executive Council, composed of our CEO, Chief Human Resources Officer, CFO, General Counsel, head of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, and other selected leaders, drives diversity, equity and inclusion as an imperative at all levels of the organization. In addition, the DEI Center of Excellence, which reports directly to our Chief Human Resources Officer, codifies our strategy and establishes goals against key metrics to drive greater transparency and accountability. Our teams of employees are composed of individuals from different geographies, cultures, religions, ethnicities, races, genders, sexual orientations, abilities and generations working together to solve problems. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 46% of our employees worldwide and 36% of our Board of Directors identified as female. In addition, 18% of our Board of Directors and approximately 22% of employees in the U.S. identified as racially or ethnically diverse. On a worldwide basis, our employees were represented by more than 85 self-identified nationalities working in 38 different countries and territories. We focus on the role of unconscious bias and endeavor to build tools that help make various business processes more inclusive and accommodate a more diverse perspective. We emphasize the importance of inclusion to leaders and managers and the value of fostering a sense of belonging within their teams. We also continue to invest in learning opportunities to develop DEI at Gartner. For example, our popular Embracing Diversity Being Inclusive module has enrolled more than 5,600 associates since its inception. The Company supports a number of employee-driven Employee Resource Groups ( ERGs ) that bring employees together to foster a diverse, inclusive and supportive workplace. Gartner currently has six formal ERGs supporting underrepresented racial, ethnic and multicultural backgrounds, women, the LGBTQ+ community, veterans and employees with disabilities. Participation in ERGs is voluntary and open to all employees. In 2021, over 4,300 Gartner associates were members of at least one ERG. Health, Safety and Compensation We seek to invest in meaningful, innovative and inclusive compensation and benefit programs that support physical, financial and emotional well-being of our employees. In addition to salaries, these programs (which vary by country/region) include annual bonuses, stock awards, an employee stock purchase plan, 401(k) matching, healthcare and insurance benefits, tax savings programs, such as health and dependent care flexible spending accounts, health savings account and pretax commuter benefits, generous paid time off, paid parental leave, life and disability insurance, business travel accident insurance, charity matching, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and on-site services, such as health centers and fitness centers, among others. We believe that our equity grants facilitate retention as well as encourage performance of key personnel. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes to protect the health and safety of our employees, clients and the communities in which we operate. This included the temporary closure of our offices in the United States, United Kingdom, India, and several other impacted locations around the world, as well as the cancellation of certain in-person conferences. We have now reopened a majority of our offices (including our corporate headquarters) and are planning to reopen the remaining offices in early 2022, with safety guidelines to protect employee health. In 2021, we announced a hybrid virtual-first working arrangement, which provides additional flexibility to employees, enabling most of them to continue working remotely a substantial portion of the time. We also provide a number of free mental and behavioral health resources, including access to the Employee Assistance Program for employees and their dependents. Talent Development, Retention and Training Gartner aims to foster a culture of lifelong learning, getting feedback and evolving. In addition to helping employees unlock their full potential through mechanisms like continuous feedback and performance appraisals, we have dedicated programs designed to develop effective leaders. We also offer rotational programs and an online learning experience platform for employees called GartnerYou. In 2021, GartnerYou offered close to 45,000 learning resources, with more than 321,000 completions globally. Since our Sales and Research Advisory teams make up of approximately 50% of total employees worldwide, we also have formal, dedicated programs to help train and onboard new hires as well as more experienced managers and leaders within Sales and Research Advisory. In 2021, Gartner transformed how we onboard new sales hires so they more quickly develop the core competencies tied to sales success. Rooted in learning and development best practices, the reimagined program operates in a scalable model that provides new sales hires in their first year with access to as many as 500 well-paced, just-in-time learning assets. More than 1,200 sales associates went through this program in 2021. Through these programs, we believe our teams develop role-specific knowledge and skills, increase productivity and improve performance. We also strive to develop an inclusive and engaging environment that makes Gartner a vibrant, exciting place to work. We believe the greatest catalyst to engagement comes from leadership particularly their efforts to set direction, allocate 5 resources, and build individual and organizational capability. We embed our associate survey efforts within our business units so that the insight we glean can help leaders understand the opportunities for effecting organizational growth. Business-unit-specific survey results are used for a number of leader-specific interventions, from individualized coaching to team-based skill-building to business-unit-wide initiatives targeting key areas of engagement. Although, like many companies, we experienced an uptick in associate turnover in 2021, the average employee tenure decreased only slightly from 5.2 years in 2020 to 5.1 years in 2021. Moreover, average employee tenure increased year over year for our sales team. Our Communities Our associates have a long history of individual and team volunteering. In addition to providing the flexibility for associates to spend time volunteering, we facilitate and support on- and off-site volunteer projects for teams, and encourage non-profit board service, skills-based volunteerism and in-house drives. In 2021, Gartner associates logged approximately 18,800 hours supporting over 420 nonprofit organizations around the world. We encourage you to review the Our Associates section of our Corporate Responsibility Report located on our website at gartner.com , under the Corporate Responsibilities link in the About tab for more detailed information regarding our Human Capital programs and initiatives. Nothing on our website, including our Corporate Responsibility Report or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, or any other filing we make with the SEC. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS Our U.S. government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the U.S. Congress to fund the agencies contracting for our products and services. Additionally, our contracts at the state and local levels, as well as foreign government contracts, are subject to various governmental authorizations and funding approvals and mechanisms. Certain of these contracts may be terminated at any time by the government entity without cause or penalty. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our internet address is gartner.com and the Investor Relations section of our website is at investor.gartner.com . We make available free of charge, on or through the Investor Relations section of our website, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing we make with the SEC. Also available at investor.gartner.com , under the Governance link, are printable and current copies of our: (i) CEO and CFO Code of Ethics, which applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and other financial managers; (ii) Global Code of Conduct, which applies to all Gartner officers, directors and employees, wherever located; (iii) Principles and Practices of the Board of Directors of Gartner, Inc., the corporate governance principles that have been adopted by our Board; and (iv) charters for each of the Board s standing committees: Audit, Compensation and Governance/Nominating. We will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our Code of Ethics, or certain amendments to the Code of Ethics, on our website at investor.gartner.com , under the Governance link.