Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2. Properties 14 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 14 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 14 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 15 Item 6 . Selected Financial Data 16 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 76 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 76 Item 9B. Other Information 76 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 77 Item 11. Executive Compensation 77 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 77 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 77 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 77 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 78 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 81 Signatures 82 PART I ITEM 1. Business General Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the "Company" or "ITW") was founded in 1912 and incorporated in 1915. The Company's ticker symbol is ITW. The Company is a global manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment with 84 divisions in 53 countries. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company employed approximately 45,000 people. The Company's operations are organized and managed based on similar product offerings and end markets, and are reported to senior management as the following seven segments: Automotive OEM; Food Equipment; Test Measurement and Electronics; Welding; Polymers Fluids; Construction Products; and Specialty Products. The following is a description of the Company's seven segments: Automotive OEM This segment is a global, niche supplier to top tier OEMs, providing unique innovation to address pain points for sophisticated customers with complex problems. Businesses in this segment produce components and fasteners for automotive-related applications. This segment primarily serves the automotive original equipment manufacturers and tiers market. Products in this segment include: plastic and metal components, fasteners and assemblies for automobiles, light trucks and other industrial uses. Food Equipment This segment is a highly focused and branded industry leader in commercial food equipment differentiated by innovation and integrated service offerings. This segment primarily serves the food service, food institutional/restaurant and food retail markets. Products in this segment include: warewashing equipment; cooking equipment, including ovens, ranges and broilers; refrigeration equipment, including refrigerators, freezers and prep tables; food processing equipment, including slicers, mixers and scales; kitchen exhaust, ventilation and pollution control systems; and food equipment service, maintenance and repair. Test Measurement and Electronics This segment is a branded and innovative producer of test and measurement and electronic manufacturing and maintenance, repair, and operations, or "MRO" solutions that improve efficiency and quality for customers in diverse end markets. Businesses in this segment produce equipment, consumables, and related software for testing and measuring of materials and structures, as well as equipment and consumables used in the production of electronic subassemblies and microelectronics. This segment primarily serves the electronics, general industrial, automotive original equipment manufacturers and tiers, industrial capital goods, energy and consumer durables markets. Products in this segment include: equipment, consumables, and related software for testing and measuring of materials, structures, gases and fluids; electronic assembly equipment; electronic components and component packaging; static control equipment and consumables used for contamination control in clean room environments; and pressure sensitive adhesives and components for electronics, medical, transportation and telecommunications applications. Welding This segment is a branded value-added equipment and specialty consumable manufacturer with innovative and leading technology. Businesses in this segment produce arc welding equipment, consumables and accessories for a wide array of industrial and commercial applications. This segment primarily serves the general industrial market, which includes fabrication, shipbuilding and other general industrial markets, and energy, construction, MRO, automotive original equipment manufacturers and tiers, and industrial capital goods markets. Products in this segment include: arc welding equipment; and metal arc welding consumables and related accessories . 3 Polymers Fluids This segment is a branded supplier to niche markets that require value-added, differentiated products. Businesses in this segment produce engineered adhesives, sealants, lubrication and cutting fluids, and fluids and polymers for auto aftermarket maintenance and appearance. This segment primarily serves the automotive aftermarket, general industrial, MRO and construction markets. Products in this segment include: adhesives for industrial, construction and consumer purposes; chemical fluids which clean or add lubrication to machines; epoxy and resin-based coating products for industrial applications; hand wipes and cleaners for industrial applications; fluids, polymers and other supplies for auto aftermarket maintenance and appearance; fillers and putties for auto body repair; and polyester coatings and patch and repair products for the marine industry. Construction Products This segment is a branded supplier of innovative engineered fastening systems and solutions. This segment primarily serves the residential construction, renovation/remodel and commercial construction markets. Products in this segment include: fasteners and related fastening tools for wood and metal applications; anchors, fasteners and related tools for concrete applications; metal plate truss components and related equipment and software; and packaged hardware, fasteners, anchors and other products for retail. Specialty Products This segment is focused on diversified niche market opportunities with substantial patent protection producing beverage packaging equipment and consumables, product coding and marking equipment and consumables, and appliance components and fasteners. This segment primarily serves the food and beverage, general industrial, consumer durables, industrial capital goods and printing and publishing markets. Products in this segment include: line integration, conveyor systems and line automation for the food and beverage industries; plastic consumables that multi-pack cans and bottles and related equipment; foil, film and related equipment used to decorate consumer products; product coding and marking equipment and related consumables; plastic and metal closures and components for appliances; airport ground support equipment; and components for medical devices. The information set forth below is applicable to all segments of the Company unless otherwise noted. The ITW Business Model The powerful and highly differentiated ITW Business Model is the Company s core source of value creation. The ITW Business Model is the Company s competitive advantage and defines how ITW creates value for its shareholders. It is comprised of three unique elements: ITW s 80/20 Front-to-Back process is the operating system that is applied in every ITW business. Initially introduced as a manufacturing efficiency tool in the 1980s, ITW has continually refined, improved and expanded 80/20 into a proprietary, holistic business management process that generates significant value for the Company and its customers. Through the application of data driven insights generated by 80/20 practice, ITW focuses on its largest and best opportunities (the 80 ) and eliminates cost, complexity and distractions associated with the less profitable opportunities (the 20 ). 80/20 enables ITW businesses to consistently achieve world-class operational excellence in product availability, quality, and innovation, while generating superior financial performance; Customer-back Innovation has fueled decades of profitable growth at ITW. The Company s unique innovation approach is built on insight gathered from the 80/20 Front-to-Back process. Working from the customer back, ITW businesses position themselves as the go-to problem solver for their 80 customers. ITW s innovation efforts are focused on understanding customer needs, particularly those in 80 markets with solid long-term growth fundamentals, and creating unique solutions to address those needs. These customer insights and learnings drive innovation at ITW and have contributed to a portfolio of approximately 18,000 granted and pending patents; 4 ITW s Decentralized, Entrepreneurial Culture enables ITW businesses to be fast, focused, and responsive. ITW businesses have significant flexibility within the framework of the ITW Business Model to customize their approach in order to best serve their specific customers' needs. ITW colleagues recognize their unique responsibilities to execute the Company's strategy and values. As a result, the Company maintains a focused and simple organizational structure that, combined with outstanding execution, delivers best-in-class services and solutions adapted to each business' customers and end markets. Enterprise Strategy In late 2012, ITW began its strategic framework transitioning the Company on its current path to fully leverage the compelling performance potential of the ITW Business Model. The Company undertook a complete review of its performance, focusing on its businesses delivering consistent above-market growth with best-in-class margins and returns, and developing a strategy to replicate that performance across its operations. ITW determined that solid and consistent above-market organic growth is the core growth engine to deliver world-class financial performance and compelling long-term returns for its shareholders. To shift its primary growth engine to organic, the Company began executing a multi-step approach. The first step was to narrow the focus and improve the quality of ITW's business portfolio. As part of the Portfolio Management initiative, ITW exited businesses that were operating in commoditized market spaces and prioritized sustainable differentiation as a must-have requirement for all ITW businesses. This process included both divesting entire businesses and exiting commoditized product lines and customers inside otherwise highly differentiated ITW divisions. As a result of this work, ITW's business portfolio now has significantly higher organic growth potential. ITW segments and divisions now possess attractive and differentiated product lines and end markets as they continue to improve operating margins and generate price/cost increases. The Company achieved this through product line simplification, or eliminating the complexity and overhead costs associated with smaller product lines and customers, while supporting and growing the businesses' largest / most profitable customers and product lines. Step two, Business Structure Simplification, was implemented to simplify and scale up ITW s operating structure to support increased engineering, marketing, and sales resources, and improve global reach and competitiveness, all of which were critical to driving accelerated organic growth. ITW now has 84 scaled-up divisions with significantly enhanced focus on growth investments, core customers and products, and customer-back innovation. The Strategic Sourcing initiative established sourcing as a core strategic and operational capability at ITW, delivering an average of one percent reduction in spend each year from 2013 through 2019 and continues to be a key contributor to the Company's ongoing enterprise strategy. With the initial portfolio realignment and scale-up work largely complete, the Company shifted its focus to preparing for and accelerating organic growth, reapplying the 80/20 Front-to-Back process to optimize its newly scaled-up divisions for growth, first, to build a foundation of operational excellence, and second, to identify the best opportunities to drive organic growth. ITW has clearly demonstrated superior 80/20 management, resulting in meaningful incremental improvement in margins and returns as evidenced by the Company s operating margin and after-tax return on invested capital. At the same time, these 80/20 initiatives can also result in restructuring initiatives that reduce costs and improve profitability and returns. Path to Full Potential - Finishing the Job Since the launch of the enterprise strategy, the Company has made considerable progress to position itself to reach full potential. The ITW Business Model and unique set of capabilities are a source of strong and enduring competitive advantage, but for the Company to truly finish the job and reach its full potential, every one of its divisions must also be operating at its full potential. To do so, the Company remains focused on its core principles to position ITW to perform to its full potential: Portfolio discipline 80/20 Front-to-Back practice excellence Full-potential organic growth 5 Portfolio Discipline The Company only operates in industries where it can generate significant, long-term competitive advantage from the ITW Business Model. ITW businesses have the right raw material in terms of market and business attributes that best fit the ITW Business Model and have significant potential to drive above-market organic growth over the long-term. The Company focuses on high-quality businesses, ensuring it operates in markets with positive long-term macro fundamentals and with customers that have critical needs and value ITW's differentiated products, services and solutions. ITW s portfolio operates in highly diverse end markets and geographies which makes the Company more resilient in the face of uncertain or volatile market environments. As part of its agenda to finish the job, the Company routinely evaluates its portfolio to ensure it delivers sustainable differentiation and drives consistent long-term performance. This includes both implementing portfolio refinements and assessing selective high-quality acquisitions to supplement ITW s long-term growth potential. The Company previously communicated its intent to explore options, including potential divestitures, for certain businesses with revenues totaling up to $1 billion. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company completed the divestitures of three businesses and continues to evaluate options for certain other businesses. The Company expects any earnings per share dilution from divestitures would be offset by incremental share repurchases. Refer to Note 2. Divestitures in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for more information regarding divestitures. 80/20 Front-to-Back Practice Excellence The 80/20 Front-to-Back process is a rigorous, iterative and highly data-driven approach to identify where the Company has true differentiation and the ability to drive sustainable, high-quality organic growth. The Company simplifies and eliminates complexity and redesigns every aspect of its business to ensure focused execution on key opportunities, markets, customers, and products. ITW will continue its efforts to finish the job and drive 80/20 Front-to-Back practice excellence in every division in the Company, every day. Driving strong operational excellence in the quality of 80/20 Front-to-Back practice across the Company, division by division, will produce further customer-facing performance improvement in a number of the Company's divisions and additional structural margin expansion at the enterprise level. Full-Potential Organic Growth Reaching full potential means that every division is positioned for sustainable, high-quality organic growth. The Company has clearly defined action plans aimed at leveraging the performance power of the ITW Business Model to achieve full-potential organic growth in every division, with specific focus on: "80 focused Market Penetration - fully leveraging the considerable growth potential that resides in the Company's largest and most differentiated product offerings and customer relationships Customer-Back Innovation - strengthening the Company's commitment to serial innovation and delivering a continuous flow of differentiated new products to its key customers Strategic Sales Excellence - deploying a high-performance sales function in every division As the Company continues to make progress toward its full potential, the Company will explore opportunities to reinforce or further expand the long-term organic growth potential of ITW through the addition of selective high-quality acquisitions. Current Year Developments Refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Distribution Methods The Company s businesses primarily distribute their products directly to industrial manufacturers and through independent distributors. 6 Backlog Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the Company s businesses as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of their products. Total backlog was $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Due to the predominately short-term nature of the Company's arrangements with its customers, backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 2020 were not material as of December 31, 2019 . Competition With operations in 53 countries, the Company offers a wide range of products in a myriad of markets, many of which are fragmented, and the Company encounters a variety of competitors that vary by product line, end market and geographic area. The Company's competitors include many regional or specialized companies, as well as large U.S. and non-U.S. companies or divisions of large companies. Each of the Company's segments generally has several main competitors and numerous smaller ones in most of their end markets and geographic areas. In addition to numerous smaller regional competitors, the Welding segment competes globally with Lincoln Electric and ESAB. In virtually all segments, the Company differentiates its businesses from its competitors based on product innovation, product quality, brand preference and service delivery. Technical capability is also a competitive factor in most segments. The Company believes that each segment's primary competitive advantages derive from the Company's business model and decentralized operating structure, which creates a strong focus on end markets and customers at the local level, enabling its businesses to respond rapidly to market dynamics. This structure enables the Company's businesses to drive operational excellence utilizing the Company's 80/20 Front-to-Back process and leveraging its product innovation capabilities. The Company also believes that its global footprint is a competitive advantage in many of its markets, especially in its Automotive OEM segment. Raw Materials The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily steel, resins and chemicals, that are available from numerous commercial sources. The availability of materials and energy has not resulted in any significant business interruptions or other major problems, and no such problems are currently anticipated. Intellectual Property The Company owns approximately 3,600 unexpired U.S. patents and 8,700 foreign patents covering articles, methods and machines. In addition, the Company has approximately 1,500 applications for patents pending in the U.S. Patent Office and 4,300 applications pending in foreign patent offices. There is no assurance that any of these patents will be issued. The Company maintains a patent group for the administration of patents and processing of patent applications. The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and important; however, the expiration of any one of the Company's patents would not have a material effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position. The Company also credits its success in the markets it serves to engineering capability; manufacturing techniques; skills and efficiency; marketing and sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to its customers. In addition to patents, many of the Company's products and services are sold under various owned or licensed trademarks, which are important to the Company in the aggregate. Some of the Company's more significant trademarks include ITW, which is also used in conjunction with the trademarks of many of the Company's businesses; Deltar and Shakeproof in the Automotive OEM segment; Hobart in the Food Equipment segment; Instron in the Test Measurement and Electronics segment; Miller in the Welding segment; Rain-X and Permatex in the Polymers Fluids segment; Paslode in the Construction Products segment; and Hi-Cone in the Specialty Products segment. Environmental The Company believes that its manufacturing plants and equipment are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. Additional measures to maintain compliance are not expected to materially affect the Company s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial position or results of operations. Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning environmental issues have become effective or are under consideration in many parts of the world relating to manufacturing processes and the sale or use of certain products. To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse impact on the Company's revenues, earnings or cash flows. 7 Employees The Company employed approximately 45,000 people as of December 31, 2019 and considers its employee relations to be excellent. Information About Our Executive Officers The executive officers of the Company serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Set forth below is information regarding the principal occupations and employment and business experience over the past five years for each executive officer. Unless otherwise stated, employment is by the Company. Executive Officers of the Company as of February 14, 2020 were as follows: Name Age Present Position Year Elected to Present Position Other Positions Held During 2015-2019 E. Scott Santi 58 Chairman Chief Executive Officer 2015 President and Chief Executive Officer, 2012-2015 Axel Beck 54 Executive Vice President 2020 Vice President/General Manager, food equipment businesses, 2011-2016, Group President, food equipment businesses, 2016-2020 Kenneth Escoe 44 Executive Vice President 2020 Vice President/General Manager, welding businesses, 2014-2016, Vice President/General Manager, specialty products businesses, 2016-2019, Group President, specialty products businesses, 2019-2020 Norman D. Finch Jr. 55 Senior Vice President, General Counsel Secretary 2017 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Sealed Air Corporation, a global manufacturer of products related to food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection, 2013-2017 John R. Hartnett 59 Executive Vice President 2012 Michael M. Larsen 51 Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer 2013 Mary K. Lawler 54 Senior Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer 2014 Steven L. Martindale 63 Executive Vice President 2008 Christopher O Herlihy 56 Vice Chairman 2015 Executive Vice President, 2010-2015 Randall J. Scheuneman 52 Vice President Chief Accounting Officer 2009 Lei Schlitz 53 Executive Vice President 2015 Group President, food equipment businesses, 2011-2015 Sharon Szafranski 53 Executive Vice President 2020 Vice President/General Manager, food equipment businesses, 2010-2016, Vice President/General Manager, test measurement and electronics businesses, 2016-2019, Group President, test measurement and electronics businesses, 2019-2020 Michael R. Zimmerman 59 Executive Vice President 2015 Group President, welding businesses, 2010-2015 8 Available Information The Company electronically files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge through the Company's website ( www.itw.com ), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. The Company will furnish any exhibit not contained herein upon the payment of a fee representing the reasonable cost to the Company of furnishing the exhibit. Requests for exhibits may be sent to Illinois Tool Works Inc., 155 Harlem Avenue, Glenview, IL 60025, Attention: Secretary. Also posted on the Company s website are the following: Statement of Principles of Conduct; Code of Ethics for CEO and key financial and accounting personnel; Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors; Corporate Governance Guidelines; Global Anti-Corruption Policy; Corporate Social Responsibility Reports; Anti-Human Trafficking Disclosure; Conflict Minerals Policy Statement; Supplier Code of Conduct; Government Affairs Information; Environmental Sustainability Policy; Human Rights Policy; Safety Policy; and United Kingdom Tax Policy Document.