Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2. Properties 29 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 29 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 31 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 70 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 74 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 129 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 129 Item 9B. Other Information 130 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 130 Item 11. Executive Compensation 130 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 130 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 131 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 131 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 131 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 131 Exhibits 131 Signatures 135 2 Table of Contents SPECIAL CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report, other public filings and oral and written statements by us and our management, may include statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information available to us at the time such statements are made. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of our operations, expenses, earnings, liquidity, cash flows and capital expenditures, industry or market conditions, assets under management, acquisitions and divestitures, debt and our ability to obtain additional financing or make payments, regulatory developments, demand for and pricing of our products, the prospects for certain legal contingencies, and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions. In addition, when used in this Report or such other documents or statements, words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, projects, forecasts, and future or conditional verbs such as will, may, could, should, and would, and any other statement that necessarily depends on future events, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees and they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations. In most cases, such assumptions will not be expressly stated. We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. The following important factors, and other factors described elsewhere in this Report or contained in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), among others, could cause our results to differ materially from any results described in any forward-looking statements: significant fluctuations in the performance of capital and credit markets worldwide; adverse changes in the global economy; the performance of our investment products; significant changes in net asset flows into or out of the accounts we manage or declines in market value of the assets in, or redemptions or other withdrawals from, those accounts; competitive pressures in the investment management business, including consolidation, which may force us to reduce fees we earn; any inability to adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in markets; the effect of fluctuations in interest rates, liquidity and credit markets in the U.S. or globally, including regulatory reform of benchmarks, such as LIBOR; our ability to acquire and integrate other companies into our operations successfully and the extent to which we can realize anticipated product sales, cost savings or synergies from such acquisitions; the occurrence of breaches and errors in the conduct of our business, including any failure to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information, cyber-attacks or acts of fraud; our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including investment management professionals; limitations or restrictions on access to distribution channels for our products; our ability to develop, introduce and support new investment products and services; our ability to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines despite preventative compliance procedures and controls; variations in demand for our investment products or services, including termination or non-renewal of our investment management agreements; harm to our reputation; our ability to maintain our credit ratings and access the capital markets in a timely manner; our debt and the limitations imposed by our credit facility; exchange rate fluctuations, especially as against the U.S. Dollar; the effect of political, economic or social instability in or involving countries in which we invest or do business (including the effect of terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities); the effect of failures or delays in support systems or customer service functions, and other interruptions of our operations; the effect of non-performance by our counterparties, third party service providers and other key vendors to fulfill their obligations; impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; pandemics or other widespread health crises and governmental responses to the same; adverse results in litigation and any other regulatory or other proceedings, governmental investigations, and enforcement actions; and 3 Table of Contents enactment of adverse federal, state or foreign legislation or changes in government policy or regulation (including accounting standards) affecting our operations, our capital requirements or the way in which our profits are taxed. Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the derivation of these forward-looking statements, and the failure of such other assumptions to be realized may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. For more discussion of the risks affecting us, please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. You should consider the areas of risk described above in connection with any forward-looking statements that may be made by us and our businesses generally. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any of the information in this or any other public report if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. PART I Item 1. Business Introduction Invesco Ltd. (Invesco or the company) is an independent investment management firm dedicated to delivering an investment experience that helps people get more out of life. Our comprehensive range of active, passive and alternative investment capabilities has been constructed over many years to help clients achieve their investment objectives. We draw on this comprehensive range of capabilities to provide customized solutions designed to deliver key outcomes aligned to client needs. With more than 8,000 employees and an on-the-ground presence in 26 countries, Invesco is well positioned to meet the needs of investors across the globe. We have specialized investment teams managing investments across a broad range of asset classes, investment styles and geographies. For decades, individuals and institutions have viewed our organization as a trusted partner for a broad range of investment needs. We have a significant presence in the retail and institutional markets within the investment management industry in North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than 120 countries. As of December 31, 2019 , the firm managed approximately $1.2 trillion in assets for investors around the world. The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, competitive pricing which we achieve through scaling our business, high-quality client service and effective distribution relationships, delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures. By achieving success in these areas, we seek to deliver better outcomes for clients and generate competitive investment results, positive net flows, increased assets under management (AUM) and associated revenues. We are affected significantly by market movements, which are beyond our control; however, we endeavor to mitigate the impact of market movements by maintaining broad diversification across asset classes, investment vehicles, client domiciles and geographies. We've also taken a number of steps to increase our efficiency and effectiveness, which enable us to provide a high level of value to clients. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competitors' products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment products and manager recommendations to their clients, although shorter-term performance may also be an important consideration. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions. We monitor quality of client service in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and feedback from investment consultants. Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda. Our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ. We maintain a website at www.invesco.com. (Information contained on our website shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document). Strategy The company focuses on four key long-term strategic objectives that are designed to sharpen our focus on client needs, further strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success: 4 Table of Contents Achieve strong, long-term investment performance across distinct investment capabilities with clearly articulated investment philosophies and processes, aligned with client needs; Be instrumental to our clients' success by delivering our distinctive investment capabilities worldwide to meet their needs; Harness the power of our global platform by continuously improving execution effectiveness to enhance quality and productivity, and allocating our resources to the opportunities that will best benefit clients and our business; and Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability, diversity of thought, fact-based decision making and execution at all levels. As an integrated global investment manager, we are keenly focused on meeting clients' needs and operating effectively and efficiently. We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment investment management. We believe one of Invesco's greatest strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe. A key focus of our business is fostering a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to maintain well-performing investment capabilities. We believe the ability to leverage the capabilities of our investment teams to help clients across the globe achieve their investment objectives is a significant differentiator for our firm. Environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) responsibility ESG investment stewardship Invesco s differentiated approach to ESG investment stewardship is guided by our purpose - to deliver an investment experience that helps people get more out of life. We define ESG investment stewardship as the inclusion of ESG issues in investment analysis and decisions, as well as the use of our rights and positions of ownership to seek to influence the activities or behaviors of companies we invest in on behalf of our clients. Invesco has been implementing ESG investment strategies for over 30 years and today we deliver these strategies through certain equities, fixed income, multi-asset, alternatives, real estate, ETFs and bespoke investment solutions mandates. We aim for such mandates to continuously develop and deliver ESG investment solutions, which take into consideration ESG research, analysis, and risk assessments. We believe that material ESG risks inherent in or taken by a company in which we invest or seek to invest on behalf of our clients may adversely impact the fundamentals of that company and negatively impact achieving the investment objective of such mandates. Our commitment to ESG investment stewardship is also evidenced, in part; by being a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment ( PRI ); receiving an annual assessment of A+ for strategy and governance from PRI for three consecutive years; and being a signatory to the UK Stewardship Code and Japan Stewardship. In addition, Invesco believes the voting of proxies of companies in which we invest should be managed with the same care as all other elements of the investment process. Our proxy voting process is driven by investment professionals and focuses on maximizing long-term value for our clients, which, in part, is driven by appropriate ESG practices. Our ESG practices seek, where appropriate, to promote sustainable social and environmental targets, in line with investor organizations like PRI, the stewardship codes discussed above and initiatives like the Task Force on Climate Related Disclosure. For more information regarding Invesco's ESG investment stewardship, please see our most recent Investment Stewardship and Proxy Voting Report on the company's website. Corporate Stewardship At Invesco, corporate stewardship efforts are motivated by the belief that doing what is right for the environment, our people and the communities in which we have a presence helps us deliver positive outcomes for our shareholders. We actively partner with non-profits, start-ups and other organizations to improve financial education, protect the environment, promote environmental sustainability, champion diversity and inclusion in our industry and our company, and support and collaborate with our local civic and community organizations to improve life in our cities. Operating environmentally responsibly is fundamental to our corporate stewardship. Invesco seeks to help protect our natural environment by implementing and maintaining environmental management processes - for example, at Invesco offices we aim to reduce utility consumption and carbon emissions, promote energy efficiency and utilize appropriate waste management practices. Some of our recent achievements include: 5 Table of Contents For 2018, Invesco offset 13,877 tons of carbon dioxide emissions through our partnership with ClimateCare, representing all of our air and rail travel purchased through our third party travel agency, which represents the majority of our air and rail travel for 2018. We anticipate conducting a similar offset program in respect to 2019; Invesco has ISO 14001 environmental management certification to effectively manage our environmental responsibilities on locations representing 80% of our employee population; and We are certified by Carbon Trust in the UK regarding multiple standards, including carbon, waste and water reduction. 2019 Developments Throughout 2019, global markets were strong, despite periods of volatility throughout the year. Uncertainty in the economic environment and weaker industry production metrics at times in the year led the US Fed and many other central banks to aggressively lower interest rates to support global growth. Despite this uncertainty, the global economy grew at a modest pace. The most significant undertaking for Invesco in 2019 was the completion of our acquisition of OppenheimerFunds, and the integration of our two firms. We view the combination as a multi-year growth story that deepened our relationships with clients in the US, expanded the capabilities we can offer globally and further scaled our business for the benefit of clients and shareholders. The firm is highly focused on delivering the additional capabilities achieved through the combination to the institutional and ex-US markets, which we expect will help move our net flows in a positive direction. As a result of the acquisition, we are also better positioned to deliver strong outcomes for clients, since overall performance rankings for US mutual funds are consistently stronger for the combined firm than for either firm independently. During 2019, we further expanded and enhanced our ability to help certain of our intermediary distributors engage with their clients and improve their investment experience through the expansion of our digital wealth platform. We launched several new products and further invested in key parts of our business that we believe will benefit our clients and enhance our competitiveness over the long term. We continued to invest in capabilities where we see strong client demand or future opportunities by making key acquisitions, hiring world-class talent, further upgrading our technology platform, launching new products and providing additional resources where necessary. We believe the ability to leverage the capabilities developed by our investment teams to meet client demand across the globe is a significant differentiator for our firm, and we will continue to bring the best of Invesco to different parts of our business where it makes sense for our clients. Some highlights of 2019 are as follows: Invesco won the Deal of the Year honor at the 26th annual Mutual Fund Industry Awards for its $5.6bn acquisition of MassMutual subsidiary OppenheimerFunds. The Deal Of the Year is awarded to the M A deal that has most changed the landscape of the fund or retirement industry. Invesco QQQ celebrated 20 years of curating innovation. Since its inception in 1999, Invesco QQQ has grown to become one of the largest, most-traded and highest-performing ETFs in the history of the industry. Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), a world leading proponent of responsible investment, rated Invesco with an A+ rating for the 3rd consecutive year. Invesco ranked #5 in market penetration among ETF providers according to a 2019 Advisors Brandscape study. We further strengthened our market-leading solutions capability, leveraging one of the industry s strongest, most experienced solutions teams to enable customized outcomes for clients; Invesco announced the launch of a new suite of defined maturity BulletShares ETFs with exposure to municipal debt issued by state and local government. Invesco received the top prize of Asset Manager of the Year at AsianInvestor's Asset Management Awards 2019 in Hong Kong. We received the marquee award in recognition of our strong performance and AUM growth at a time when many fund houses were losing assets. Invesco China JV (IGW) won more than 50 awards in the asset management industry with a key highlight being China Securities Journal s Annual Golden Bull Fund Company Award for 2019. Invesco High Yield Equity Dividend was named one of the Top 5 dividend funds in the U.S. for the past five years by Barron s. Invesco Japanese Equity Advantage Fund managed by Tadao Minaguchi was awarded the best Japan fund by Investment Week UK at their 2019 Funds Manager of the Year awards. Amalgamated Bank entered into an agreement with Invesco to become a sub-adviser for their investment management business. As a sub-adviser, Invesco will provide investment management services for Amalgamated Bank across asset classes. Jemstep, Invesco's digital advisor, acquired a key client, Infinex Financial Group, which has a network of greater than 650 advisors and 220 banks and credit unions. 6 Table of Contents As announced in January 2020, Invesco's Jemstep digital wealth platform has been chosen to power Citi's investment service, Citi Wealth Builder, because of its goal-based client experience and the ability to configure its platform to meet Citi's requirements. Invesco launched a Blockchain ETF on the London Stock Exchange, providing an innovative way for investors to participate in this technology. Invesco launched Gilt ETFs, giving investors access to UK government bonds across the full maturity spectrum. Invesco's North America Marketing team and the Global Thought Leadership team won in a number of categories at the recent Gramercy Institution Financial Content Marketing Awards. These awards recognize excellence in financial marketing. Invesco's Active Multi-Sector Credit Fund and Europlus Fund won the Lipper Fund Awards from Revinitiv. Taken together, this work further expanded the broad range of capabilities Invesco uses to create solutions that deliver the outcomes clients are seeking, all wrapped in a robust, value-added client experience. These initiatives also further strengthened the firm s effectiveness and efficiency, providing greater economies of scale that we believe will enable us to provide a higher level of value to clients and further improve our competitive position. Industry Trends Trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes: Clients are demanding more from investment managers. While investment performance remains paramount, competitive pricing, client engagement and value-added services (including portfolio analytics and providing consultative solutions) increasingly differentiate managers. Invesco is working to enhance the client's user experience through digital marketing (web, mobile, social) and improved service. The building out of Invesco Solutions to respond to this trend is among the firm's top priorities. Investors are continuing to shift to alternative, passive, and smart beta strategies. As a consequence, Invesco and the industry are seeing client demand for core equities and fixed income portfolios decline as a share of global flows. Invesco is the #2 provider of smart beta AUM in the US and has 72 ETFs with greater than $500 million in assets. Invesco also has a strong lineup of alternative and multi-asset strategies supported by ongoing product development. We are seeing increased pressure on pricing within the asset management industry, arising from increased use of low fee passive products and further concentration within our channel distribution partners (which increases their ability to negotiate pricing) and additional regulatory scrutiny on industry fees. Distribution partners are becoming more selective and are moving towards developing fewer relationships and partners, reducing the number of investment managers with whom they work. Regulatory activity remains at increased levels and is influencing competitive dynamics. Increased regulatory scrutiny of managers has focused on many areas including transparency/unbundling of fees, inducements, conflicts of interest, capital, liquidity, solvency, leverage, operational risk management, controls and compensation. Invesco continues to work proactively with regulators around the world. Efforts to further modernize and strengthen our global platform will enhance our ability to compete effectively across markets while complying with the variety of applicable regulatory regimes. Although the developed markets in the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other key emerging markets in the world, such as China and India, are positioned for future growth over the long term despite near-term headwinds. As these population-heavy markets mature, we believe investment managers that are truly global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and retirement savings schemes also differ substantially among countries. We believe firms such as Invesco, with diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in this global competitive landscape. Invesco has a meaningful market presence in many of the world's most attractive regions, including North America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. We believe our strong and growing presence in established and emerging markets provides significant long-term growth potential for our business. Technology advances are impacting core elements of the investment management industry which lags other industries in its use of technology. Clients increasingly seek to interact digitally with their investment portfolios. This is leading to established managers investing in and/or acquiring "robo" and other technology platforms. As the investment management business becomes more complex, automation will become increasingly important to serve clients effectively and efficiently. Invesco is leveraging technology across its business and exploring opportunities to work with third-party technology firms to enhance our clients' investment experience. Over the past few years, we have made strategic acquisitions to strengthen our overall digital wealth platform, including Jemstep and Intelliflo, our advisor-focused digital platforms. These acquisitions and others have strengthened our ability to offer competitive digital wealth capabilities and position us ahead of the evolving client needs. 7 Table of Contents As a result of the trends discussed above, clients are seeking to work with a smaller number of asset managers who can meet a comprehensive set of needs. They want money managers who can provide a robust set of capabilities and create investment solutions that deliver key outcomes aligned to their investment objectives. They also want greater value for their money, which means competitive pricing, investor education, thought leadership, digital platforms and other value added services that create an enhanced client experience. These dynamics are driving fundamental changes within our industry and that we believe will drive increasing consolidation. We believe the steps we have taken over the past decade and throughout 2019 strengthened our ability to meet client needs and will help ensure Invesco is well-positioned to compete and win within our industry. Other External Factors Impacting Invesco Invesco has a larger global presence in key markets than most of our peers. As one of the leading investment managers in the UK and Europe, we were more impacted by continuing uncertainties surrounding Brexit. Additionally, our strong position in Asia Pacific meant that Invesco was more affected than others by market uncertainties over the trade issues between China and the U.S. Although negotiations between the UK and EU resulted in the UK leaving the EU under the terms of the Withdrawal Agreement on January 31, 2020, the longer term relationship between the UK and the EU is still uncertain. This may affect the levels and composition of our AUM and also negatively influence investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. In addition, because the UK Pound Sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the UK Pound Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar could negatively impact our reported financial results. Invesco is a global business and has been committed for many years to meeting clients needs across Europe in both EU and non-EU countries. Invesco has local teams of experts focused on servicing local clients and fund ranges in different countries to meet a variety of local, country and regional client needs. We currently have a presence in 12 member states across the EU (excluding the UK), employing over 440 staff; our staff will be able to continue to reside and work across the relevant regions. The change in the UK's status from an EU to a non-EU country will not change Invesco s focus or commitment to serve its clients across Europe. We have plans in place which will enable us to respond to a variety of different potential scenarios and we believe we are fully prepared to continue to operate and deliver for our clients with minimal disruption. The manner in which interest rates are calculated could also impact our client portfolios. In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA ), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the LIBOR benchmark after 2021. This announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021, and it appears likely that LIBOR will be phased out or the methodology for determining LIBOR will be modified by 2021. Changes in the method pursuant to which LIBOR is determined or the discontinuance of LIBOR may adversely affect the amount of interest payable or interest receivable on certain portfolio investments. These changes may also impact the market liquidity and market value of these portfolio investments. Invesco is finalizing its global assessment of exposure in relation to funds utilizing LIBOR based in