Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 25 Item 2. Properties 26 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 26 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 26 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6. [Reserved] 29 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 58 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 100 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 101 Item 9B. Other Information 101 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 101 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 101 Item 11. Executive Compensation 101 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 101 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 102 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 102 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 103 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 103 Exhibits 103 Signatures 107 Ta ble of Contents GLOSSARY OF DEFINED TERMS Adjusted SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate plus 0.10% adjustment APAC Asia-Pacific AUM Assets under management bps Basis points CEO Chief Executive Officer CFTC Commodity Future Trading Commission CIP Consolidated investment products CISO Chief Information Security Officer CLOs Collateralized loan obligations Companies Act Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission DOL The Department of Labor Covenant Adjusted EBITDA A financial measure set forth in covenants in our credit agreement, which is defined to be earnings before income tax, depreciation, amortization, interest expense, common share-based compensation expense, unrealized (gains)/losses from investments, net, and unusual or otherwise non-recurring gains and losses EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation EPS Earnings per share ERISA Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ESG Environmental, social and governance ETFs Exchange-traded funds EU European Union FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FCA Financial Conduct Authority GDPR General Data Protection Regulation GCSO Global Chief Security Officer GEIP ST 2010 Global Equity Incentive Plan ST IGW or Invesco Great Wall Invesco Great Wall Fund Management Company Limited LIBOR The London Inter-Bank Offered Rate MassMutual Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company NAV Net asset value NYSE New York Stock Exchange OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development PCAOB Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PIPL Personal Information Protection Law RIS Retail Investment Strategy RSAs Restricted stock awards RSUs Restricted stock units S P Standard Poor's SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SFC Securities Futures Commission of Hong Kong SFDR Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation SMA Separately Managed Accounts SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate the company Invesco Ltd. and its consolidated entities the Parent Invesco Ltd. Report this Annual Report on Form 10-K TRS Total return swap UITs Unit Investment Trusts U.K. United Kingdom U.S. United States U.S. GAAP U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UCITS Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities UTBs Unrecognized tax benefits VIE Variable interest entity VOE Voting interest entity i Ta ble of Contents SPECIAL CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report, other public filings and oral and written statements by us and our management, may include statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States (U.S.) securities laws. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information available to us at the time such statements are made. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of our operations, expenses, earnings, liquidity, cash flows, capital expenditures, and assets under management (AUM) which could differ materially from actual results due to known and unknown risks and other important factors, including, but not limited to, industry or market conditions, geopolitical events and pandemics or health crises and their respective potential impact on the company, acquisitions and divestitures, debt and our ability to obtain additional financing or make payments, regulatory developments, demand for and pricing of our products, the prospects for certain legal contingencies, and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions. In addition, when used in this Report or such other documents or statements, words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, projects, forecasts, and future or conditional verbs such as will, may, could, should, and would, and any other statement that necessarily depends on future events, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. None of this information should be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, historical financial statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations. In most cases, such assumptions will not be expressly stated. We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. The following important factors, and other factors described elsewhere in this Report or contained in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), among others, could cause our results to differ materially from any results described in any forward-looking statements: significant fluctuations in the performance of capital and credit markets worldwide; adverse changes in the global economy; the performance of our investment products; significant changes in net asset flows into or out of the accounts we manage or declines in market value of the assets in, or redemptions or other withdrawals from, those accounts; competitive pressures in the investment management business, including consolidation, which may force us to reduce fees we earn; failure to properly address the increased transformative pressures affecting the asset management industry; any inability to adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in markets; the effect of fluctuations in interest rates, liquidity and credit markets in the U.S. or globally; failure to maintain adequate corporate and contingent liquidity; exposure through certain investment products to credits losses in excess of our expectations and risks related to early stage real estate-related companies; our ability to acquire and integrate other companies into our operations successfully and the extent to which we can realize anticipated product sales, cost savings or synergies from such acquisitions; the occurrence of breaches and errors in the conduct of our business, including errors in our quantitative models and index tracking investment solutions, any failure to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information, cyber-attacks or acts of fraud; our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including investment management professionals; limitations or restrictions on access to distribution channels for our products; our ability to develop, introduce and support new investment products and services; our ability to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines despite preventative compliance procedures and controls; variations in demand for our investment products or services, including termination or non-renewal of our investment management agreements; harm to our reputation; our ability to maintain our credit ratings and access the capital markets in a timely manner; our debt and the limitations imposed by our credit agreement; exchange rate fluctuations, especially as against the U.S. Dollar; man-made or natural disasters, pandemics or other widespread health crises or other business continuity problems and governmental responses to the same; the effect of political, economic or social instability in or involving countries in which we invest or do business (including the effect of terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities); impact of climate-change; 1 Ta ble of Contents the effect of failures or delays in support systems or customer service functions, and other interruptions of our operations; the effect of systems and other technological limitations on our ability to manage and grow our business; the effect of non-performance by our counterparties, third-party service providers and other key vendors to fulfill their obligations; impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; adverse results in litigation and any other regulatory or other proceedings, governmental investigations and enforcement actions; the selling of our common stock by our significant shareholders; and enactment of adverse federal, state or foreign legislation or changes in government policy or regulation (including accounting standards) affecting our operations, our capital requirements or the way in which our profits are taxed. Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the derivation of these forward-looking statements, and the failure of such other assumptions to be realized may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. For more discussion of the risks affecting us, please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. You should consider the areas of risk described above in connection with any forward-looking statements that may be made by us and our businesses generally. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any of the information in this or any other public report if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Summary of Risk Factors The following is a summary of material risks we are exposed to in the course of our business activities and which could have an adverse effect on our business. It does not contain all of the information that may be important to you and should be read together with the more detailed discussion of risks in Item 1A, Risk Factors. Risks Related to Market Dynamics and Volatility Volatility and disruption in global or regional capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, could negatively affect our AUM, revenues, net income and liquidity. Our revenues and net income would likely be adversely affected by any reduction in AUM as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, each of which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. Our revenues and net income from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rates, liquidity and credit volatility. Our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments. As many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the U.S. and have functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the U.S. Dollar impact our reported financial results. Risks Related to Investment Performance and Competition Poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our AUM or affect our sales, and negatively impact our revenues and net income. Failure to properly address the increased transformative pressures affecting the asset management industry could negatively impact our business. Competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, which could reduce our profitability. Our private market products include investments in private credit, real estate, and equity investments in early-stage real estate-related companies which may expose our investment products, clients and us, to the extent of our investment in such investment products, to risks and liabilities, and us to reputational harm. Our investment products, clients and us, to the extent of our investment in such investment products, could incur losses if the allowance for credit losses, including loan and lending-related commitment reserves, of portfolio-level investments is inadequate or if our expectations of future economic conditions deteriorate. We may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose us to additional costs or operational risk. The failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may have a negative impact on similar Invesco products irrespective of our performance. Risks Related to Talent, Operations and Technology 2 Ta ble of Contents Our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our AUM, revenues and net income. Changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net income and hinder our growth. Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in costs of correction, damage awards and/or regulatory fines and penalties against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. Our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. The quantitative models we use and our index tracking investment solutions may contain errors, which could result in financial losses or adversely impact product performance and client relationships. Climate change-related risks could adversely affect our business, products, operations and clients, which may cause our AUM, revenue and net income to decline. If our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our AUM, revenues and net income. The lack of soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us or the client portfolios we manage. We depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. Our ability to manage and grow our business successfully can be impeded by systems and other technological limitations. If we are unable to successfully recover from a man-made or natural disaster, health crisis or pandemic or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. Our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems, including data management, and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors or reputational harm, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. Risks Related to Accounting, Capital Management and Liquidity The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our credit agreement imposes operating covenants that impact our ability to conduct certain activities and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. We issued perpetual preferred stock having a value of approximately $4 billion, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and may limit our ability to fund other priorities. Failure to maintain adequate corporate and contingent liquidity may cause our AUM, revenues and net income to decline, as well as harm our prospects for growth. Distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements. Risks Related to Strategic Transactions We may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. Risks Related to our Significant Shareholders Future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (MassMutual) has the ability to significantly influence our business, and MassMutual s interest in our business may be different from that of other shareholder s. Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters We operate in an industry that is highly regulated in most countries, and any enforcement action or significant changes in the laws or regulations governing our business or industry could decrease our AUM, revenues, net income and liquidity. Civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our AUM and future net income and increase our costs of doing business. Legislative and other measures that may be taken by governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our net income or liquidity. Examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to shareholders. 3 Ta ble of Contents Because we are incorporated in Bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to enforce non-monetary judgments against us or any judgment against us or our directors and officers. Shareholders may have to seek independent advice regarding the commencement of proceedings or service of foreign process in Bermuda. We have anti-takeover provisions in our Bye-Laws that may discourage a change of control. General Risk Factors Our ability to maintain our credit ratings and to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. Insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost to protect us from loss or liability. PART I Item 1. Business Introduction Invesco Ltd. (the Parent) and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, Invesco or the company) is an independent investment management firm dedicated to delivering a superior investment experience. Our comprehensive range of active, passive and alternative investment capabilities has been constructed over many years to help clients achieve their investment objectives. We draw on this comprehensive range of capabilities to provide solutions designed to deliver key outcomes aligned to client needs. With approximately 8,500 employees and an on-the-ground presence in more than 20 countries, Invesco is well positioned to meet the needs of investors across the globe. We have specialized investment teams managing investments across a broad range of asset classes, investment styles and geographies. For decades, individuals and institutions have viewed Invesco as a trusted partner for a comprehensive set of investment needs. We have a significant presence in the retail and institutional markets within the investment management industry in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia-Pacific (APAC), serving clients in more than 120 countries. As of December 31, 2023, the firm managed approximately $1.6 trillion in assets for investors around the world. The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, high-quality client service and effective distribution relationships delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures. Through our focus on these areas, we seek to deliver better outcomes for clients, generate competitive investment results and positive net flows, and increase AUM and revenues. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competitors' products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment products and recommendations to their clients. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions. We monitor the quality of client service in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and feedback from investment consultants. The company is organized under the laws of Bermuda. Our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol IVZ. We maintain a website at www.invesco.com/corporate. (Information contained on our website shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document.) Industry Trends Trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally: Individuals and Institutions expect personalized outcomes and experience. Distribution partners are becoming more selective and continuing to maintain fewer relationships and partners, reducing the number of trusted investment managers with whom they work. Clients and distribution partners are demanding more from investment managers. While performance remains paramount, competitive pricing, best-in class experience and value-added services (including portfolio analytics and consultative solutions) increasingly differentiate managers. The U.S. and China will continue to be the dominant global wealth markets. Global asset management leaders will need a considerable footprint in these markets. 4 Ta ble of Contents Structural shifts in client portfolio allocations. Private market allocations continue to increase and become a meaningful part of retail portfolios, driving industry fee growth as well as innovation and democratization. Beta, factor, and index offerings will continue to be core to portfolios in transparent, efficient markets. In this space, clients will demand ease of access and competitive pricing. Investors have been selecting active strategies, while placing a high bar on proven superior risk-adjusted returns. Investors have been favoring fixed income strategies in response to unpredictable market conditions and the higher interest rate environment. Investors have been shifting their investment strategies toward lower fee offerings, and we believe this trend will continue. Leading asset managers must quickly curate options that solve clients problems. Investment capabilities will be delivered efficiently and seamlessly using technologies, platforms, and vehicles. Investment managers are finding new ways of leveraging data and analytics to create insights that will provide strategic advantage and drive investment, distribution, and operational excellence. Winners will invest in talent and skills across new ecosystems, requiring new ways of working and strategic partnerships to drive synergies and scale. These dynamics are driving fundamental changes within the industry and, we believe, will drive increasing consolidation. We believe the steps we have taken over the past decade strengthened our ability to understand, anticipate and meet client needs and will help ensure Invesco is well-positioned to compete within our industry over the long term. Strategy At Invesco, we seek to drive sustainable profitable growth by delivering capabilities that build enduring partnerships and create better outcomes for our clients. The company focuses on four key long-term strategic objectives that are designed to sharpen our focus on client needs, further strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success: Deliver the excellence our clients expect Achieve strong, long-term investment performance. Deliver a quality investment process and a frictionless experience with superior engagement. Provide advice and solutions to help our clients best manage their portfolios and succeed with their own clients. Grow high demand investment offerings Deliver ahead of clients expectations through product innovation, investment styles, and packaging options. Focus our offerings at the intersection of high opportunity markets and high demand capabilities. Create an environment where talented people thrive Attract and develop high performing, diverse talent with skills aligned to deliver against business outcomes. Create an inclusive and engaging culture that values diversity of thought which enables us to work as one team to deliver better outcomes. Act like owners for all stakeholders Be disciplined stewards of firm resources with a focus on profitable growth. Invest in the success of our clients, our shareholders, and ourselves. As an integrated global investment manager, we are keenly focused on meeting clients' needs and operating effectively and efficiently. We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment investment management. A key focus of our business is fostering a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to maintain well-performing investment capabilities. We believe the ability to leverage the capabilities of our investment teams to help clients across the globe achieve their investment objectives is a significant differentiator for our firm. Investment Management Capabilities We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment teams and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management approaches provide us with a robust competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include equity, fixed income, balanced, alternatives and money market. 5 Ta ble of Contents The following sets forth our major managed investment objectives by asset class: Equity Fixed Income Balanced Alternatives Money Market Core/Value/Growth Style Buy and Hold Balanced Risk Absolute Return Cash Plus Custom Solutions Convertibles Custom Solutions Commodities Custom Solutions Emerging Markets Core/Core Plus ESG Currencies Government/Treasury Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Custom Solutions Global/Regional Custom Solutions Prime International/Global Emerging Markets Single Country Direct Lending Taxable Large/Mid/Small Cap ESG Target Risk Distressed Debt Tax-Free Low Volatility/Defensive Government Bonds Traditional Balanced ESG Passive/Enhanced High-Yield Bonds Financial Structures Regional/Single Country International/Global Global Macro Smart Beta/Factor-based Investment Grade Credit Infrastructure and MLPs Thematic/Sector Multi-Sector Long/Short Equity Municipal Bonds Managed Futures Passive/Enhanced Multi-Alternatives Regional/Single Country Private Real Estate Short/Ultra-Short Duration Public Real Estate Securities Smart Beta/Factor-based Senior Secured Loans Stable Value Structured Securities Distribution Channels Retail AUM typically originate from clients investing into funds available to the public in the form of shares or units. Institutional AUM originate from entities such as individual corporate clients, insurance companies, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities or charities. AUM disclosed as retail channel AUM include AUM distributed by the company's retail sales team. AUM disclosed as institutional channel AUM include AUM distributed by the company's institutional sales team. The company operates as an integrated global investment manager, presenting itself as a single firm to clients around the world. Dedicated sales forces deliver our investment strategies through a variety of vehicles that meet the needs of retail and institutional clients. Note that not all products sold in the retail distribution channel are in "retail" vehicles, and not all products sold in the institutional channel are in "institutional" vehicles, as described in the table below. This aggregation, however, is viewed as a proxy for presenting AUM in the retail and institutional markets in which we operate. The following lists our primary investment vehicles by distribution channel: Retail Institutional Closed-end Mutual Funds Collective Trust Funds Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) ETFs Individual Savings Accounts Institutional Separate Accounts Investment Companies with Variable Capital Open-end Mutual Funds Investment Trusts Private Funds Open-end Mutual Funds Separately Managed Accounts (SMA) Soci t d'investissement Capital Variable Unit Investment Trusts (UITs) Variable Insurance Funds 6 Ta ble of Contents Retail Retail AUM were $1,042.0 billion at December 31, 2023. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, direct wealth platforms, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in the Americas, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and direct wealth platforms in EMEA and APAC. The Americas and EMEA retail operations rank among the largest by