Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2. Properties 25 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. [Reserved] 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 63 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 114 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 114 Item 9B. Other Information 115 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 115 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 115 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 115 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 116 Exhibits 116 Signatures 120 2 Table of Contents SPECIAL CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report, other public filings and oral and written statements by us and our management, may include statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States securities laws. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information available to us at the time such statements are made. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of our operations, expenses, earnings, liquidity, cash flows and capital expenditures, industry or market conditions, assets under management, acquisitions and divestitures, debt and our ability to obtain additional financing or make payments, regulatory developments, demand for and pricing of our products, the prospects for certain legal contingencies, and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions. In addition, when used in this Report or such other documents or statements, words such as believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, projects, forecasts, and future or conditional verbs such as will, may, could, should, and would, and any other statement that necessarily depends on future events, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees and they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations. In most cases, such assumptions will not be expressly stated. We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. The following important factors, and other factors described elsewhere in this Report or contained in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), among others, could cause our results to differ materially from any results described in any forward-looking statements: significant fluctuations in the performance of capital and credit markets worldwide; adverse changes in the global economy; the performance of our investment products; significant changes in net asset flows into or out of the accounts we manage or declines in market value of the assets in, or redemptions or other withdrawals from, those accounts; pandemics or other widespread health crises and governmental responses to the same; competitive pressures in the investment management business, including consolidation, which may force us to reduce fees we earn; any inability to adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in markets; the effect of fluctuations in interest rates, liquidity and credit markets in the U.S. or globally, including regulatory reform of benchmarks, such as LIBOR; failure to maintain adequate corporate and contingent liquidity; our ability to acquire and integrate other companies into our operations successfully and the extent to which we can realize anticipated product sales, cost savings or synergies from such acquisitions; the occurrence of breaches and errors in the conduct of our business, including errors in our quantitative models and index tracking investment solutions, any failure to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information, cyber-attacks or acts of fraud; our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including investment management professionals; limitations or restrictions on access to distribution channels for our products; our ability to develop, introduce and support new investment products and services; our ability to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines despite preventative compliance procedures and controls; variations in demand for our investment products or services, including termination or non-renewal of our investment management agreements; harm to our reputation; our ability to maintain our credit ratings and access the capital markets in a timely manner; our debt and the limitations imposed by our credit facility; exchange rate fluctuations, especially as against the U.S. Dollar; the effect of political, economic or social instability in or involving countries in which we invest or do business (including the effect of terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities); the effect of failures or delays in support systems or customer service functions, and other interruptions of our operations; the effect of systems and other technological limitations on our ability to manage and grow our business; the effect of non-performance by our counterparties, third party service providers and other key vendors to fulfill their obligations; impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; 3 Table of Contents adverse results in litigation and any other regulatory or other proceedings, governmental investigations and enforcement actions; the selling of our common stock by our significant shareholders; and enactment of adverse federal, state or foreign legislation or changes in government policy or regulation (including accounting standards) affecting our operations, our capital requirements or the way in which our profits are taxed. Other factors and assumptions not identified above were also involved in the derivation of these forward-looking statements, and the failure of such other assumptions to be realized may also cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. For more discussion of the risks affecting us, please refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors. You should consider the areas of risk described above in connection with any forward-looking statements that may be made by us and our businesses generally. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any of the information in this or any other public report if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. PART I Item 1. Business Introduction Invesco Ltd. (Invesco or the company) is an independent investment management firm dedicated to delivering an investment experience that helps people get more out of life. Our comprehensive range of active, passive and alternative investment capabilities has been constructed over many years to help clients achieve their investment objectives. We draw on this comprehensive range of capabilities to provide customized solutions designed to deliver key outcomes aligned to client needs. With more than 8,500 employees and an on-the-ground presence in more than 20 countries, Invesco is well positioned to meet the needs of investors across the globe. We have specialized investment teams managing investments across a broad range of asset classes, investment styles and geographies. For decades, individuals and institutions have viewed Invesco as a trusted partner for a comprehensive set of investment needs. We have a significant presence in the retail and institutional markets within the investment management industry in the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than 110 countries. As of December 31, 2021, the firm managed approximately $1.6 trillion in assets for investors around the world. The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, high-quality client service and effective distribution relationships, delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures. Through our focus on these areas, we seek to deliver better outcomes for clients and generate competitive investment results, positive net flows, increased assets under management (AUM) and associated revenues. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competitors' products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment products and manager recommendations to their clients. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions. We monitor the quality of client service in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and feedback from investment consultants. Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda. Our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ. We maintain a website at www.invesco.com/corporate. (Information contained on our website shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document.) 4 Table of Contents Strategy The company focuses on four key long-term strategic objectives that are designed to sharpen our focus on client needs, further strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success: Achieve strong, long-term investment performance across distinct investment capabilities with clearly articulated investment philosophies and processes, aligned with client needs; Be instrumental to our clients' success by delivering our distinctive investment capabilities worldwide to meet their needs; Harness the power of our global platform by continuously improving execution effectiveness to enhance quality and productivity, and allocating our resources to the opportunities that will best benefit clients and our business; and Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability, diversity of thought, fact-based decision making and execution at all levels. As an integrated global investment manager, we are keenly focused on meeting clients' needs and operating effectively and efficiently. We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment investment management. We believe one of Invesco's greatest strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe. A key focus of our business is fostering a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to maintain well-performing investment capabilities. We believe the ability to leverage the capabilities of our investment teams to help clients across the globe achieve their investment objectives is a significant differentiator for our firm. Industry Trends Trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes: The global pandemic that began in 2020 is continuing to drive fundamental changes in the ways asset managers engage with clients, manage their businesses and deliver investment outcomes. Many of the changes that were under way in 2020 have been meaningfully accelerated by the pandemic, including efforts to further digitize the client experience, using data analytics to better anticipate and understand client needs as part of providing solutions-oriented outcomes, and leveraging technology to better connect with our clients and among our employees. Firms within and outside the industry have also had to evolve their cultures to serve and accommodate a workforce that is primarily remote. Distribution partners are becoming more selective and continuing to maintain fewer relationships and partners, reducing the number of trusted investment managers with whom they work. Invesco provides a robust set of capabilities and creates investment solutions that deliver key outcomes aligned to their investment objectives. Clients and distribution partners are also demanding more from investment managers. While investment performance remains paramount, competitive pricing, client engagement and value-added services (including portfolio analytics and consultative solutions) increasingly differentiate managers. Clients and distribution partners are also increasingly discerning and focused on greater value for their money. Invesco delivers competitive pricing, investor education, thought leadership, digital platforms and other value-added services that enhance the client experience. The firm is also working to enhance the client user experience through digital marketing (web, mobile, social) and improved service. Investors continue to demand alternative, passive and smart beta strategies. As a consequence, the industry is seeing client demand for certain active core equities portfolios decline as a share of global flows. Invesco is the #3 provider of smart beta AUM in the US. Invesco sponsors 89 ETFs with greater than $500 million in assets. Invesco also has a strong lineup of alternative and multi-asset strategies supported by ongoing product development. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing has received increased attention in the asset management industry with the belief that incorporating ESG into investing is essential to creating sustainable value and effectively mitigating risk. Invesco's intention is to fully integrate ESG factors over time into the investment process. The asset management industry is experiencing pressure on net revenue yield, arising from increased use of low fee passive products and further concentration within channel distribution partners (which increases their ability to negotiate pricing). Regulatory activity remains at increased levels and is influencing competitive dynamics. Increased regulatory scrutiny of asset managers has focused on many areas, including transparency/unbundling of fees, inducements, conflicts of interest, capital, liquidity, solvency, leverage, operational risk management, controls and compensation. Invesco continues to work proactively with regulators around the world to better understand and help shape the evolving 5 Table of Contents regulatory landscape. Efforts to further modernize and strengthen our global platform will enhance our ability to compete effectively across markets while complying with the variety of applicable regulatory regimes. This is a key differentiator for large, scaled firms such as Invesco. Although the developed markets in the US and Europe are the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other key emerging markets in the world, such as Greater China and India, are growing faster and are positioned for greater future growth over the long term. In particular, the Chinese mutual fund management industry has grown from zero to more than $4 trillion, and it is expected to become the second-largest fund management market in the world in 2025 with more than $6 trillion in assets. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and retirement savings schemes also differ substantially among countries. We believe firms such as Invesco, with experience across a variety of key markets and diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in this global competitive landscape. Technology advances are impacting core elements of the investment management industry, which lags other industries in its use of technology. Clients increasingly seek to interact digitally with their investment portfolios. This is leading to established managers investing in and/or acquiring technology platforms. As the investment management business becomes more complex, automation will become increasingly important to serve clients effectively and efficiently. Invesco is leveraging technology across its business and exploring opportunities to work with third-party technology firms to enhance our clients' investment experience. In addition, over the past few years, Invesco has made investments in its digital wealth business, Intelliflo. These dynamics are driving fundamental changes within the industry and, we believe, will drive increasing consolidation. We believe the steps we have taken over the past decade strengthened our ability to understand, anticipate and meet client needs and will help ensure Invesco is well-positioned to compete within our industry over the long term. Investment Management Capabilities We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment teams and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management approaches provide us with a robust competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, balanced, equity, fixed income and alternatives. We offer custom solutions across all asset classes and increasingly incorporate ESG considerations into our investment decisions and products. The following sets forth our major managed investment objectives by asset class: Money Market Balanced Equity Fixed Income Alternatives Custom Solutions Custom Solutions Custom Solutions Custom Solutions Custom Solutions Environmental, Social and Governance Environmental, Social and Governance Environmental, Social and Governance Environmental, Social and Governance Environmental, Social and Governance Cash Plus Balanced Risk Core/Value/Growth Style Buy and Hold Absolute Return Government/Treasury Global/Regional Emerging Markets Convertibles Commodities Prime Single Country International/Global Core/Core Plus Currencies Taxable Target Date Large/Mid/Small Cap Emerging Markets Direct Lending Tax-Free Target Risk Low Volatility/Defensive Government Bonds Distressed Debt Traditional Balanced Passive/Enhanced High-Yield Bonds Financial Structures Regional/Single Country International/Global Global Macro Smart Beta/Factor-based Investment Grade Credit Infrastructure and MLPs Thematic/Sector Multi-Sector Long/Short Equity Municipal Bonds Managed Futures Passive/Enhanced Multi-Alternatives Regional/Single Country Private Real Estate Short/Ultra-Short Duration Public Real Estate Securities Stable Value Senior Secured Loans Structured Securities Smart Beta/Factor-based 6 Table of Contents Distribution Channels Retail AUM typically originates from clients investing into funds available to the public in the form of shares or units. Institutional AUM originates from entities such as individual corporate clients, insurance companies, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities or charities. AUM disclosure by distribution channel represents consolidated AUM distributed by type of sales team. AUM amounts disclosed as retail channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's retail sales team; whereas AUM amounts disclosed as institutional channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's institutional sales team. The company operates as an integrated global investment manager, presenting itself as a single firm to clients around the world. Dedicated sales forces deliver our investment strategies through a variety of vehicles that meet the needs of retail and institutional clients. Note that not all products sold in the retail distribution channel are in "retail" vehicles, and not all products sold in the institutional channel are in "institutional" vehicles, as described in the table below. This aggregation, however, is viewed as a proxy for presenting AUM in the retail and institutional markets in which we operate. The following lists our primary investment vehicles by distribution channel: Retail Institutional Closed-end Mutual Funds Collective Trust Funds Exchange-traded Funds (ETF) Exchange-traded Funds (ETF) Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) Institutional Separate Accounts Investment Companies with Variable Capital (ICVC) Open-end Mutual Funds Investment Trusts Private Funds Open-end Mutual Funds Separately Managed Accounts (SMA) Soci t d'investissement Capital Variable (SICAV) Unit Investment Trusts (UIT) Variable Insurance Funds Retail Retail AUM were $1,106.5 billion at December 31, 2021. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in the Americas, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in EMEA and Asia-Pacific. The Americas, UK and EMEA ex-UK retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As of December 31, 2021, Invesco's U.S. retail business, including our ETF franchise, is a top 10 asset manager in the U.S. by long-term assets, and Invesco's retail business in EMEA ex-UK is among the largest non-proprietary investment managers in the retail channel. In addition, Invesco Great Wall, our joint venture in China, is one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with total AUM of approximately $99.2 billion at December 31, 2021. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry's most robust and comprehensive product lines. Institutional Institutional AUM were $504.4 billion at December 31, 2021. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global strategies, including traditional and quantitative equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public and private entities, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds, financial institutions and sovereign wealth funds. Invesco's institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions, government entities and companies in the world. 7 Table of Contents AUM Diversification One of Invesco's competitive strengths is the diversification of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class. We serve clients in more than 110 countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split of our AUM as Passive and Active. Passive AUM include index-based ETFs, unit investment trusts (UITs), non-management fee earning AUM and other passive mandates. Active AUM is total AUM less Passive AUM. See the company's disclosures regarding the changes in AUM for the year ended December 31, 2021 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Assets Under Management section for additional information regarding the changes in AUM. By Client Domicile ($ in billions) Total 1-Yr Change c Americas 1,132.5 18.0 % c UK 59.6 (10.9) % c EMEA Ex UK 171.5 13.0 % c Asia Pacific 247.3 44.4 % Total 1,610.9 By Distribution Channel ($ in billions) Total 1-Yr Change c Retail 1,106.5 16.8 % c Institutional 504.4 25.2 % Total 1,610.9 By Asset Class ($ in billions) Total 1-Yr Change c Equity 841.6 22.0 % c Fixed Income 334.8 13.0 % c Balanced 88.6 12.3 % c Money Market 148.8 37.1 % c Alternatives 197.1 11.7 % Total 1,610.9 8 Table of Contents Active vs. Passive ($ in billions) Total 1-Yr Change c Active 1,082.5 10.5 % c Passive 528.4 42.6 % Total 1,610.9 Corporate Responsibility and Human Capital Invesco s long-term success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talent. Invesco invests significantly in talent development, health and welfare programs, technology and other resources that support our employees in developing their full potential both personally and professionally. We believe that an employee community that is diverse and inclusive, engaged in community involvement and invested in employee well-being will drive positive outcomes for our clients and shareholders. During 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to be a worldwide public health and business phenomenon. Our top priority since the beginning of the pandemic has been the health and well-being of our worldwide employees. In addition to other actions taken, we continue to assess the general well-being of our employees and their ability to stay healthy, productive and connected. We regularly conduct confidential surveys of our employees to gauge their sentiment across a variety of engagement categories, including questions related to compensation, benefits, work/life balance, career development, inclusion, teamwork and leadership. We believe that diversity and inclusion are both moral and business imperatives. We are committed to improving diversity at all levels and in all functions across our global business as evidenced by our CEO and senior managing directors including a diversity and inclusion goal in their performance goals. Increasing representation of women and other underrepresented employees remains a focus for Invesco, as does building an inclusive environment. At the end of 2021, our global workforce was 39% female and 61% male (2020: 39% female and 61% male), with 35% of senior managers worldwide being women (2020: 33%). All employees are required to take unconscious bias training. Our employees are also encouraged to participate in any of our eleven business resource groups where employees with diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives can connect. Our business resource groups are sponsored by senior leaders and are designed by employees, for employees. As of December 31, 2021, the company had 8,513 employees with an on-the-ground presence in over 20 countries (December 31, 2020: 8,512). None of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. The company is committed to reducing our impact on the environment. We believe asset managers have a crucial role to play in supporting investment aligned with global efforts to reduce the impact of climate change on our planet. We recently signed the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, joining other asset managers to support the global goal of reaching net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or sooner. 9 Table of Contents Competition The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, fees, range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, depth and continuity of relationships and quality of service. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and, increasingly, firms outside the traditional financial industry, such as technology providers. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources and higher brand recognition than the company. We believe our experience as a trusted partner to clients, the quality and diversity of our investment capabilities, product types and channels of distribution, and our commitment to innovation enable us to compete effectively in the global investment management business. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both manage and distribute and/or service those products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against our strategic objectives will further strengthen our long-term competitive position. Management Contracts We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days' notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice and institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationship with investme