Item 1. Business Page 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors Page 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Page 45 Item 1C. C ybersecurity Page 45 Item 2. Properties Page 46 Item 3. Legal Proceedings Page 47 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure Page 47 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Page 48 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Page 49 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Page 49 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Page 65 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Page 66 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure Page 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Page 66 Item 9B. Other Information Page 67 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections Page 67 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Page 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation Page 68 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Page 68 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Page 68 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Page 68 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Page 70 Signatures Page 75 Page 2 PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that do not directly relate to any historical or current fact. When used herein, words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "plans," "intends," future, will, would, could, can, may, "target," "goal" and similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make concerning the financial condition and results of operations and our expectations as to our future growth, prospects, financial outlook and business strategy, and any assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Although such statements are based on management s current estimates and expectations and/or currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and you should not place undue reliance on such statements as actual results may differ materially. We caution the reader that there are a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is contained, projected or implied by our forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including inflation and the actions taken by monetary authorities in response to inflation, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in capital markets and stock market volatility, instability in the banking industry, labor shortages, or the impact of a possible recession or economic downturn or changes to monetary or fiscal policies or priorities in the U.S. and the countries where we do business on our results, prospects and opportunities; competition from existing and future competitors in our target markets, as well as the possible reduction in demand for certain of our product solutions and services, including delays in the timing of the award of projects or reduction in funding, or the abandonment of ongoing or anticipated projects due to the financial condition of our clients and suppliers or due to governmental budget constraints or changes to governmental budgetary priorities, or the inability of our clients to meet their payment obligations in a timely manner or at all; our ability to fully execute on our corporate strategy, including (i) uncertainties as to the impact of the completed Separation Transaction (as defined below) on our business, such as a possible impact on our credit profile or our ability to operate as a separate public-company without the benefit of the resources and capabilities divested as part of the SpinCo Business (as defined below), the possibility that the Separation Transaction will not result in the intended benefits to us or our shareholders, that we will not realize the value expected to be derived from the disposition of our retained stake in Amentum (as defined below), or that we will incur unexpected costs, charges or expenses related to the provision of transition services in connection with the Separation Transaction, (ii) the impact of acquisitions, strategic alliances, divestitures, and other strategic events resulting from evolving business strategies, including on our ability to maintain our culture and retain key personnel, customers or suppliers, or our ability to achieve the cost-savings and synergies contemplated by our recent acquisitions within the expected time frames or to achieve them fully and to successfully integrate acquired businesses while retaining key personnel , and (iii) our ability to invest in the tools needed to implement our strategy; financial market risks that may affect us, including by affecting our access to capital, the cost of such capital and/or our funding obligations under defined benefit pension and post retirement plans; legislative changes, including potential changes to the amounts provided for, under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, as well as other legislation related to governmental spending, and changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances, including the impact of, and changes to, tariffs or trade policies that may adversely impact our future financial position or results of operations; increased geopolitical uncertainty and risks, including policy risks and potential civil unrest, relating to the outcome of elections across our key markets and elevated geopolitical tension and conflicts, including the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas conflicts and the escalating tensions in the Middle East, among others; and the impact of any pandemic, and any resulting economic downturn on our results, prospects and opportunities, measures or restrictions imposed by governments and health officials in response to the pandemic, as well as the inability of governments in certain of the countries in which we operate to effectively mitigate the financial or other impacts of any future pandemics or infectious disease outbreaks on their economies and workforces and our operations therein. The foregoing factors and potential future developments are inherently uncertain, unpredictable and, in many cases, beyond our control. For a description of these and additional factors that may occur that could cause actual results Page 3 to differ from our forward-looking statements, see