Item 1. Business Page 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors Page 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Page 52 Item 2. Properties Page 52 Item 3. Legal Proceedings Page 52 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure Page 52 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Page 53 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Page 55 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Page 56 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Page 76 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Page 77 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure Page 77 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Page 77 Item 9B. Other Information Page 78 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Page 79 Item 11. Executive Compensation Page 79 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Page 79 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Page 79 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Page 79 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Page 80 Signatures Page 83 Page 2 PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, among other things, statements regarding our future operations, financial condition, and business strategies and future economic and industry conditions. Forward-looking statements are statements that do not directly relate to any historical or current fact. When used herein, words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "plans," "intends," future, will, would, could, can, may, and similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management s current estimates and expectations and/or currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from what may be inferred from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those listed and discussed in