Item 1. Business Page 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors Page 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Page 48 Item 2. Properties Page 48 Item 3. Legal Proceedings Page 49 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure Page 49 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Page 50 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Page 52 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Page 52 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Page 66 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Page 66 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure Page 66 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Page 66 Item 9B. Other Information Page 67 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Page 68 Item 11. Executive Compensation Page 68 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Page 68 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Page 68 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Page 68 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Page 70 Signatures Page 74 Page 2 PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that do not directly relate to any historical or current fact. When used herein, words such as "expects," "anticipates," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "plans," "intends," future, will, would, could, can, may, and similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make concerning the financial condition and results of operations and our expectations as to our future growth, prospects, financial outlook and business strategy for fiscal 2023 or future fiscal years, our expectations for the percentage of backlog we will realize as revenue in fiscal 2023, and the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or the strategic investment in PA Consulting. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management s current estimates and expectations and/or currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and you should not place undue reliance on such statements as actual results may differ materially. We caution the reader that there are a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is contained, projected or implied by our forward-looking statements. Such factors include our ability to execute on our three-year corporate strategy, including our ability to invest in the tools needed to implement our strategy, competition from existing and future competitors in our target markets, our ability to achieve the cost-savings and synergies contemplated by our recent acquisitions within the expected time frames or to achieve them fully and to successfully integrate acquired businesses while retaining key personnel, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any resulting economic downturn on our results, prospects and opportunities, measures or restrictions imposed by governments and health officials in response to the pandemic, the timing of the award of projects and funding under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, financial market risks that may affect the Company's funding obligations under defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, as well as general economic conditions, including inflation and the actions taken by monetary authorities in response to inflation, changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in capital markets, the possibility of a recession and geopolitical events and conflicts, among others. The impact of such matters includes, but is not limited to, the possible reduction in demand for certain of our product solutions and services and the delay or abandonment of ongoing or anticipated projects due to the financial condition of our clients and suppliers or to governmental budget constraints or changes to governmental budgetary priorities; the inability of our clients to meet their payment obligations in a timely manner or at all; potential issues and risks related to a significant portion of our employees working remotely; illness, travel restrictions and other workforce disruptions that have and could continue to negatively affect our supply chain and our ability to timely and satisfactorily complete our clients projects; difficulties associated with retaining and hiring additional employees; and the inability of governments in certain of the countries in which we operate to effectively mitigate the financial or other impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on their economies and workforces and our operations therein. The foregoing factors and potential future developments are inherently uncertain, unpredictable and, in many cases, beyond our control. For a description of these and additional factors that may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements, see