Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 11 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 12 Item 2. Properties 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 13 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 14 Item 6. [Reserved] 15 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 16 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 26 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 26 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 27 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 27 Item 9B. Other Information 27 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 27 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 28 Item 11. Executive Compensation 28 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 28 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 28 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 28 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 29 Signatures 32 1 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report, including documents which are incorporated by reference and other documents which we file periodically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), contains statements that may be considered to be forward-looking statements. Such statements relate to our predictions concerning future events or operations and are within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. When we use words like may, plan, contemplate, anticipate, believe, intend, continue, expect, project, goals, strategy, future, predict, seek, estimate, likely, could, should, would, and similar expressions, you should consider them as identifying forward-looking statements, although we may use other phrasing. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, subject to risks, and should be viewed with caution. These statements are based on our belief or interpretation of information currently available. Shareholders and prospective investors are cautioned that actual results and future events may differ materially from these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors. Some of the factors and events that are not within our control and that could have a material impact on future operating results include the following: general economic and business conditions; potential business or operational disruptions resulting from the effects of a national or international health pandemic; competition and competitive rate fluctuations; excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries; a loss of one or more major customers; cost and availability of diesel fuel; interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads; rail service delays; disruptions to U.S. port-of-call activity; ability to attract and retain qualified drivers, delivery personnel, independent contractors, and third-party carriers; retention of key employees; insurance costs and availability; litigation and claims expense; determination that independent contractors are employees; new or different environmental or other laws and regulations; volatile financial credit markets or interest rates; terrorist attacks or actions; acts of war; adverse weather conditions; disruption or failure of information systems; inability to keep pace with technological advances affecting our information technology platforms; operational disruption or adverse effects of business acquisitions; increased costs for and availability of new revenue equipment; increased tariffs assessed on or disruptions in the procurement of imported revenue equipment; decreases in the value of used equipment; and the ability of revenue equipment manufacturers to perform in accordance with agreements for guaranteed equipment trade-in values. You should understand that many important factors that are not within our control, in addition to those listed above, could impact us operationally and financially. Our future financial and operating results may fluctuate as a result of these and other risk factors or events as described in our filings with the SEC. Some important factors that could cause our future results to differ from estimates or projections contained in the forward-looking statements are described under Risk Factors in Item 1A. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery, and logistics companies in North America. J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a publicly held holding company that, through our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides a wide range of reliable transportation, brokerage, and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental United States, Canada, and Mexico. Unless otherwise indicated by the context, we, us, our, the Company , and JBHT refer to J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We were incorporated in Arkansas on August 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. Our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers, independent contractors, or third-party carriers. We have arrangements with most of the major North American rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers, while we perform the majority of the pickup and delivery services. We also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems, and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. These arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, freight handling, specialized equipment, and freight network design. In addition, we provide or arrange for local and home delivery services, generally referred to as last-mile delivery services, to customers through a network of cross-dock and other delivery system locations throughout the continental United States. Utilizing thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive freight transportation brokerage and logistics services. In addition to dry-van, full-load operations, we also arrange for these unrelated outside carriers to provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (LTL), and other specialized equipment, drivers, and services. Also, we utilize a combination of company-owned and contracted power units to provide traditional over-the-road full truckload delivery services. Our customers, who include many Fortune 500 companies, have extremely diverse businesses. Many of them are served by J.B. Hunt 360 , an online platform that offers shippers and carriers greater access, visibility and transparency of the supply chain. 2 We believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our existing lines of business and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. We report our operating results for these services using five reporting segments: Intermodal (JBI), Dedicated Contract Services (DCS ), Integrated Capacity Solutions (ICS), Final Mile Services (FMS) and Truckload (JBT). Our business usually involves slightly higher freight volumes in August through early November. Meanwhile, DCS and FMS are subject to less seasonal variation than our other segments. Additional general information about us is available at jbhunt.com. We make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, Board committee charters, and other corporate policies. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. OUR VISION, MISSION AND STRATEGY Our Vision: To create the most efficient transportation network in North America. Our Mission: Driving long-term value for our people, customers and shareholders. We forge long-term relationships with key customers that include supply chain management as an integral part of their strategies. Working in concert, we strive to drive out excess cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprises. Our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. We believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to shareholders. We continually analyze opportunities for additional capital investment and where management s resources should be focused to provide more benefits to our customers. These actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our shareholders. Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. Our Company s vision, to create the most efficient transportation network in North America, focuses on delivering both for our customers across all of our business segments. We seek to accomplish this by maintaining a modern fleet to maximize fuel efficiency, converting loads from truck to rail with our intermodal service, and introducing technologies to optimize freight flows in the supply chain by eliminating waste. Additionally, we continue to test and explore the usage of alternative fuel vehicles. Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions are ongoing. We are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay Transport Partner, and proud to have been awarded the EPA s SmartWay Excellence Award each of the past twelve years it was awarded. As always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible. 3 OPERATING SEGMENTS Segment information is also included in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. JBI Segment The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada, and Mexico. Our JBI segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the BNSF Railway Company (BNSF); this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. Throughout the years that followed, JBI established multiple agreements with other Class I railroads. JBI draws on the intermodal services of these rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. The origin and destination pickup and delivery services (drayage) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. By performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers. JBI operates 118,171 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. The fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. We own and maintain our own chassis fleet, consisting of 100,825 units. The containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together for optimal productivity, which we feel creates an operational competitive advantage. JBI also manages a fleet of 5,944 company-owned tractors and 7,567 company drivers and contracts 436 independent contractor trucks. At December 31, 2023, the total JBI employee count was 8,756. Revenue for the JBI segment in 2023 was $6.21 billion. DCS Segment DCS focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment and specialized equipment. We specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. Contracts with our customers are long-term, ranging from three to 10 years, with the average being approximately five years. Pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration. At December 31, 2023, this segment operated 12,574 company-owned trucks, 674 customer-owned trucks, and 4 independent contractor trucks. DCS also operates 27,194 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 5,406 customer-owned trailers. The DCS segment employed 16,196 people, including 13,752 drivers, at December 31, 2023. DCS revenue for 2023 was $3.54 billion. ICS Segment ICS provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment within other segments. By leveraging the J.B. Hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, and expedited, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. Furthermore, we offer an online multimodal marketplace via J.B. Hunt 360 that helps shippers and carriers match the right load with the right carrier. ICS also provides the majority of our single-source logistics management services for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ICS operates multiple remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers. At December 31, 2023, the ICS segment employed 861 people, with approximately 122,100 available third-party carriers. ICS revenue for 2023 was $1.39 billion. 4 FMS Segment FMS provides last-mile delivery services to customers through a nationwide network of cross-dock and other delivery system network locations, with 98% of the continental U.S. population living within 150 miles of a network location. FMS provides both asset and non-asset (brokerage) big and bulky delivery and installation services, as well as fulfillment, retail-pooling distributions, and LTL services. FMS contracts with customers range from one to five years, with the average being approximately three years. At December 31, 2023, this segment operated 1,166 company-owned trucks, 225 customer-owned trucks, and 20 independent contractor trucks. FMS also operates 1,212 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 102 customer-owned trailers. The FMS segment employed 2,972 people, including 1,418 drivers and 416 delivery and material assistants, at December 31, 2023. FMS revenue for 2023 was $918 million. JBT Segment The service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors and trailers operating over roads and highways. JBT also offers services through our J.B. Hunt 360box program which utilizes our J.B. Hunt 360 platform to access capacity and offer efficient drop trailer solutions to our customers. We typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. We use independent contractors or third-party carriers who agree to transport freight in our trailers as well as our company-owned tractors and employee drivers. At December 31, 2023, the JBT segment operated 13,561 company-owned trailers, 27 company-owned tractors, and employed 329 people, 28 of whom were drivers. At December 31, 2023, we had 1,931 independent contractors operating in the JBT segment. JBT revenue for 2023 was $789 million. Marketing and Operations We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. Our customer base includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies. We provide many transportation services that meet the supply chain logistics needs of shippers. We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. We use specific sales forces in DCS and FMS due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. In addition to our sales teams, J.B. Hunt 360 offers instant access to a wide array of technology-driven solutions for customers and carriers. Through the platform, businesses of all sizes can quote and book shipments, view analytics, and gain visibility into freight movement. In accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. Human Capital Resources General Despite operating over 187,000 pieces of transportation equipment, our single greatest asset and one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. J.B. Hunt strives to provide a supportive and safe work environment for its employees, where diverse and innovative ideas can be fostered to solve problems and provide value-added services for our customers. In addition to our employees, our customers, vendors, and communities in which we operate also share diverse backgrounds and an equally diverse range of interests and passions. J.B. Hunt puts forth its best effort to support initiatives reflecting the company values which are shared by its stakeholders. As of December 31, 2023, we had 34,718 employees, which consisted of 22,765 company drivers, 9,976 office personnel, 1,510 maintenance technicians, and 467 delivery and material assistants. We also had arrangements with 2,391 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. None of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. 5 In managing the Company s business, management focuses on various human capital measures and objectives designed to address the development, attraction, and retention of personnel. These include competitive compensation and benefits, paid time off, employee retirement plan, bonus and other incentive compensation plans, modern equipment and support, leadership development, and tuition assistance as well as those described below. Diversity and Inclusion We hold strongly to the principle that a qualified, diverse workforce, and inclusive workplace helps us represent the broad cross-section of ideas, values, and beliefs of our employees, customers, suppliers, and communities. In 2017, we established our Diversity and Inclusion initiative which reaches enterprise-wide and aims to create an inclusive culture and environment where employees from all backgrounds can succeed and be heard. Employees are evaluated and hired nationally in accordance with established criteria and regulatory requirements specific to their anticipated role within the Company. In addition, our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), Inclusion Office, and Inclusion Council work together to further our culture of inclusivity. The Company s six ERGs offer opportunities for employee professional development, business improvement, community engagement, and networking. Comprised of groups representing women, Latinos, veterans, LGBTQIA+, African Americans, and Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, our ERGs promote camaraderie within the workforce and allow employees with similar interests to build meaningful work relationships that enable career mobility. Our Inclusion Office is a division of our People Team where our inclusion strategy and work are centralized to enable our goal of creating an inclusive culture where all employees feel welcomed, valued, respected, safe, and heard. Our Inclusion Council was established in 2022 and is comprised of senior leaders with diverse identities from across our organization. They are a voice for our people who share a passion for ensuring that inclusion remains a key component of creating an exceptional employee experience and drives how we do business. Employee Safety and Health The health and well-being of our workforce is a priority as we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all our operations as safely as possible. J.B. Hunt employees participate in regular job-specific safety training programs. In addition, J.B. Hunt s Million Mile Safe Driving and Recognition Awards Program has recognized and rewarded our drivers who dedicate themselves to accident-free driving. Since its inception in 1996, the program has awarded more than $38 million to over 4,700 drivers. We believe that access to quality healthcare is also an important part of this priority, and we have programs in place that focus on improving the quality of care that our employees and their families receive. Paid leave is another key component of this focus and the Company offers benefit plans that comply with all applicable laws. Revenue Equipment Our JBI segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. The composition of our DCS trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, bulk, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, and dump trailers. We primarily utilize third-party carriers tractor and trailing equipment for our ICS segment. Our FMS segment primarily utilizes straight trucks or similar equipment through third-party carriers, while the JBT segment operates primarily 53-foot dry-van trailers. As of December 31, 2023, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 19,711 units. In addition, we had 2,391 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. We operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets. Due to our customers preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is extremely diversified. We believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, improves fuel efficiency and lowers maintenance expense. At December 31, 2023, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 1.9 years, while our containers averaged 9.0 years of age and our trailers averaged 6.3 years. We perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities. 6 Competition and the Industry The freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. Our JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. The diversified nature of the services provided by our DCS and FMS segments attracts competition from customers private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. Our ICS segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. The full-load freight competition of our JBT segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country. We compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services. Regulation Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. The DOT periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the DOT. Our operations into and out of Canada and Mexico are subject to regulation by those countries. We are also subject to a variety of requirements of national, state, and local governments, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. These laws and regulations have the effect of increasing the costs, risks and liabilities associated with our applicable operations. We are also subject to existing and potential future laws and regulations with regards to public policy on climate change. If current regulatory requirements become more stringent or new environmental laws and regulations regarding climate change are introduced, we could be required to make significant expenditures or abandon certain activities. We continue to monitor the actions of the FMCSA and other regulatory agencies and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations.