Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 23 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. [Reserved] 25 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 26 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 39 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 39 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 40 Item 9B. Other Information 40 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 42 Item 11. Executive Compensation 42 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 42 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 42 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 42 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 43 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 84 Signatures 85 Table of Contents This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Many of the forward-looking statements are located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, should, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Company s actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. References in this report to the Company, Jabil, we, our, or us mean Jabil Inc. together with its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business The Company We are one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions. We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets. Our services enable our customers to reduce manufacturing costs, improve supply-chain management, reduce inventory obsolescence, lower transportation costs and reduce product fulfillment time. Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products. We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability. We conduct our operations in facilities that are located worldwide, including but not limited to China, Ireland, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore, and the United States. Our global manufacturing production sites allow customers to manufacture products simultaneously in the optimal locations for their products. Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2022, we had net revenues of $33.5 billion and net income attributable to Jabil Inc. of $996 million. We have two reporting segments: Electronics Manufacturing Services ( EMS ) and Diversified Manufacturing Services ( DMS ), which are organized based on the economic profiles of the services performed, including manufacturing capabilities, market strategy, margins, return on capital and risk profiles. Our EMS segment is focused around leveraging IT, supply chain design and engineering, technologies largely centered on core electronics, utilizing our large scale manufacturing infrastructure and our ability to serve a broad range of end markets. Our EMS segment is a high volume business that produces product at a quicker rate (i.e. cycle time) and in larger quantities and includes customers primarily in the 5G, wireless and cloud, digital print and retail, industrial and semi-cap, and networking and storage industries. Our DMS segment is focused on providing engineering solutions, with an emphasis on material sciences, machining, tooling, and molding of highly engineered plastic and metal parts. Our DMS includes customers primarily in the automotive and transportation, connected devices, healthcare and packaging, and mobility industries. Additional financial information regarding our reportable operating segments is included in Item 7 of this report and Note 13 Concentration of Risk and Segment Data to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Industry Background The industry in which we operate has historically been composed of companies that provide a range of design and manufacturing services to companies that utilize electronics components in their products. In recent years, the industry has expanded to include customers that require products and services beyond electronic components including plastics and metal components, packaging, and injection molding. We monitor the current economic environment and its potential impact on both the customers we serve as well as our end markets and closely manage our costs and capital resources so that we can respond appropriately as circumstances change. Over the long term we believe the factors driving our customers and potential customers to use our industry s services include: Efficient Manufacturing. Manufacturing service providers are often able to manufacture products at a reduced total cost to companies. These cost advantages result from higher utilization of capacity and efficiencies of scale because of diversified product demand and, generally, a greater focus on the components of manufacturing cost. Companies are increasingly seeking to reduce their investment in inventory, facilities and equipment used in manufacturing and prioritizing capital investments in other activities such as sales and marketing and research and development ( R D ). This strategic shift in capital deployment has contributed to increased demand for and interest in outsourcing to external manufacturing service providers. Accelerated Product Time-to-Market and Time-to-Volume. Manufacturing service providers are often able to deliver accelerated production start-ups and achieve high efficiencies in bringing new products to production. Providers are also able to more rapidly scale production for changing markets and to position themselves in global locations that serve the leading world markets. With increasingly shorter product life cycles, these key services allow new products to be sold in the marketplace in an accelerated time frame. Access to Advanced Design and Manufacturing Technologies. By utilizing manufacturing service providers, customers gain access to additional advanced technologies in manufacturing processes, as well as to product and 2 Table of Contents production design, which can offer customers significant improvements in the performance, quality, cost, time-to-market and manufacturability of their products. Improved Inventory Management and Purchasing Power. Manufacturing service providers are often able to more efficiently manage both procurement and inventory, and have demonstrated proficiency in purchasing components at improved pricing due to the scale of their operations and continuous interaction with the materials marketplace. Our Strategy Our vision for the future is to become the world s most technologically advanced manufacturing services and solutions provider. As we work to achieve our vision, we continue to pursue the following strategies: Establish and Maintain Long-Term Customer Relationships. An important element of our strategy is to establish and maintain long-term relationships with leading companies in expanding industries with size and growth characteristics that can benefit from highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing on a global scale. We focus on maintaining long-term relationships with our customers and seek to expand these relationships to include additional product lines and services. In addition, we focus on identifying and developing relationships with new customers that meet our targeted profile, which includes financial stability, the need for technology-driven turnkey manufacturing, anticipated unit volume and long-term relationship stability. Product Diversification. We focus on balancing our portfolio of products and product families to those that align with higher return areas of our business, including manufacturing, supply chain management services, comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services, 5G wireless, cloud, healthcare, automotive and transportation, and capital equipment. We have made concentrated efforts to diversify our industry sectors and customer base. Because of these efforts, we have experienced business growth from both existing and new customers as well as from acquisitions. Utilize Customer-Centric Business Units. Most of our business units are dedicated to serve one customer each and operate by primarily utilizing dedicated production equipment, production workers, supervisors, buyers, planners and engineers to provide comprehensive manufacturing solutions that are customized to each customer s needs. We believe our customer-centric business units promote increased responsiveness to our customers needs, particularly for customer relationships that extend across multiple production locations. Leverage Global Production. We believe that global production is a key strategy to reduce obsolescence risk and secure the lowest possible landed costs while simultaneously supplying products of equivalent or comparable quality throughout the world. Consistent with this strategy, we have established or acquired operations in the Americas, Europe, Asia and Africa. Our extensive global footprint positions us well to implement safe and practical solutions in order to select production locations which best serve the needs of our customers. We believe that our global footprint is strengthened by our centralized procurement process, which when coupled with our single Enterprise Resource Planning system affords our customers with end-to-end supply chain visibility. Offer Systems Assembly, Direct-Order Fulfillment and Configure-to-Order Services. Our systems assembly, direct-order fulfillment and configure-to-order services allow our customers to reduce product cost and risk of product obsolescence by reducing total work-in-process and finished goods inventory. These services are available at all of our manufacturing locations. Offer Design Services. We offer a wide spectrum of value-add design services to achieve improvements in performance, cost, time-to-market and manufacturability. Pursue Acquisition Opportunities Selectively. The primary goals of our acquisition strategy are to complement our current capabilities, diversify our business into new industry sectors and with new customers and expand the scope of the services we can offer to our customers. Our Approach to Manufacturing To achieve high levels of manufacturing performance, we have adopted the following approaches: Decentralized Business Unit Model. Most of our business units are dedicated to serve one customer each and are empowered to formulate strategies tailored to individual customer s needs. Our business units generally have dedicated production lines consisting of equipment, production workers, supervisors, buyers, planners and engineers. Under certain circumstances, a production line may serve more than one business unit to maximize resource utilization. 3 Table of Contents Business units have direct responsibility for manufacturing results and time-to-volume production, thereby promoting a sense of individual commitment and ownership. The business unit approach is modular and enables us to grow incrementally without disrupting the operations of other business units. Business unit management reviews the customer financial information to assess whether the business units are meeting their designated responsibilities and to ensure that the daily execution of manufacturing activities is being effectively managed. The business units aggregate into operating segments based on the economic profiles of the services performed, including manufacturing capabilities, market share strategy, margins, return on capital and risk profiles. Automated Continuous Flow. We use a highly automated, continuous flow approach to manufacturing, whereby different pieces of equipment are joined directly or by conveyor to create an in-line assembly process. This process contrasts with a batch approach, whereby individual pieces of assembly equipment are operated as freestanding work-centers. The elimination of waiting time prior to sequential operations results in faster manufacturing, which improves production efficiencies and quality control, and reduces inventory work-in-process. We believe continuous flow manufacturing provides cost reductions and quality improvement when applied to high volumes of product. Computerized Control and Monitoring. We support all aspects of our manufacturing activities with advanced computerized control and monitoring systems. Component inspection and vendor quality are monitored electronically in real-time. Materials planning, purchasing, stockroom and shop floor control systems are supported through a computerized manufacturing resource planning system, which provides customers with the ability to continuously monitor material availability and track work-in-process on a real-time basis. In addition, manufacturing processes are supported by a computerized statistical process control system, whereby customers can remotely access our computer systems to monitor real-time yields, inventory positions, work-in-process status and vendor quality data. Electronic Supply Chain Management. We make available to our customers and suppliers an electronic commerce system/electronic data interchange and web-based tools to implement a variety of supply chain management programs. Our customers use these tools to share demand and product forecasts and deliver purchase orders, and we use these tools with our suppliers for just-in-time delivery, supplier-managed inventory and consigned supplier-managed inventory. Our Design Services We offer a wide spectrum of value-add design services to enhance our relationships with current customers and to help develop relationships with our new customers. Our teams are strategically staffed to support Jabil customers for all development projects, including turnkey system design and design for manufacturing activities. These design services include: Electronic Design. Our Electronic Design team provides electronic circuit design services, including application-specific integrated circuit design, firmware development and rapid prototyping services. These services have been used by our customers for a variety of products including smart phones and accessory products, notebook and personal computers, connected consumer products and appliances, servers, radio frequency products, optical communications products, communication and broadband products, and automotive and healthcare components and devices. Industrial Design. Our Industrial Design team designs the look and feel of the plastic and metal enclosures that house the products electro-mechanics, including the printed circuit board assemblies ( PCBA ). Mechanical Design. Our Mechanical Design team specializes in three-dimensional mechanical design with the analysis of electronic, electro-mechanical and optical assemblies using state of the art modeling and analytical tools. This team has extended Jabil s product design offering capabilities to include all aspects of industrial design, advance mechanism development and tooling management. Computer-Assisted Design. Our Computer-Assisted Design ( CAD ) team provides PCBA design services using advanced CAD engineering tools, PCBA design validation and verification services, and other consulting services, which include generating a bill of materials, approved vendor list and assembly equipment configuration for a particular PCBA design. We believe that our CAD services result in PCBA designs that are optimized for manufacturability and cost efficiencies and accelerate a product s time-to-market and time-to-volume production. Product Validation. Our Product Validation team provides complete product and process validation. This includes product system tests, product safety, regulatory compliance and reliability tests. Manufacturing Test Solution Development. Our Manufacturing Test Solution Development team provides integral support to the design teams to embed design with testability and to promote efficient capital and resource investment 4 Table of Contents in the manufacturing process. The use of software driven instrumentation and test process design and management has enhanced our product quality and reduced our operating costs relative to human dependent test processes. The full electronic test data-log of customer products has allowed customer product test traceability and visibility throughout the manufacturing test process. Fabrication and Assembly We offer systems assembly, test, direct-order fulfillment and configure-to-order services to our customers. Our systems assembly services extend our range of assembly activities to include assembly of higher-level sub-systems and systems incorporating multiple PCBAs. In addition, based on quality assurance programs developed with our customers, we provide testing services for our PCBAs, sub-systems and systems products. Our quality assurance programs include circuit testing under various environmental conditions to ensure that our products meet or exceed required customer specifications. We also offer direct-order fulfillment and configure-to-order services for delivery of final products. Technology and Research and Development We believe that our manufacturing and testing technologies are among the most advanced in our industry. To meet our customers increasingly sophisticated needs, we continuously engage in R D activities designed to create new and improved products and manufacturing solutions for our customers. Through our R D efforts, we intend to continue to offer our customers highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing process technologies for precise and aesthetic mechanical components and system assembly. These technologies and R D activities include: Automation, including automated tooling Electronic interconnection Advanced polymer and metal material science Single/multi-shot injection molding, stamping and in-mold labeling Multi-axis computer numerical control Vacuum metallization Physical vapor deposition Digital printing Anodization Thermal-plastic composite formation Plastic with embedded electronics Metal and plastic covers with insert-molded or dies-casting features for assembly Display cover with integrated touch sensor Material processing research (including plastics, metal, glass and ceramic) Additive manufacturing We engage in R D activities for many products including mobile internet devices and associated accessories, multi-media tablets, two-way radios, health care and life science products, server and storage products, set-top and digital home products and printing products. Customers and Marketing A key tenet of our strategy is to establish and maintain long-term relationships with leading companies in expanding industries with the size and growth characteristics that can benefit from highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing on a global scale. A small number of customers and significant industry sectors have historically comprised a major portion of our net revenue. We also market our services and solutions through our website and our Blue Sky Innovation Centers. In fiscal year 2022, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 44% of our net revenue and 79 customers accounted for approximately 90% o f our net revenue. The table below sets forth the respective portion of net revenue attributable to the customer that accounted for a significant concentration of our net revenue during the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2022 2021 2020 Apple, Inc. 19 % 22 % 20 % Competition Our business is highly competitive. We compete against numerous domestic and foreign electronic manufacturing service providers, diversified manufacturing service providers and design providers. We also face competition from the manufacturing 5 Table of Contents operations of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. We compete with different companies depending on the type of service we are providing or the geographic area in which an activity takes place. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the manufacturing services market are: cost; accelerated production time-to-market; higher efficiencies; global locations; rapid scale production; advanced technologies; quality; and improved pricing of components. We believe we are extremely competitive with regard to all of these factors. Components Procurement We procure components from a broad group of suppliers, determined on an assembly-by-assembly basis. Our global sourcing and purchasing locations are strategically placed in various countries throughout the world along with our global commodity management and supplier relationship teams. These locations manage our end-to-end procurement lifecycle. This regionalized expertise along with our supplier relationships provide efficient procurement operations. Some of the products we manufacture contain one or more components that are only available from a single source. Some of these components are allocated from time to time in response to supply shortages. In some cases, supply shortages will substantially curtail production of all assemblies using a particular component. Proprietary Rights We regard certain aspects of our technology, design, production and product management services as proprietary intellectual property. To protect our trade secrets, manufacturing know-how and other proprietary rights, we rely largely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, non-disclosure agreements with our customers, employees, and suppliers and our internal security systems, policies and procedures. We currently have a relatively modest number of patents for various innovations. We believe that our research and design activities, along with developments relating thereto, may result in growth of our patent portfolio and its importance to us, particularly as we expand our business activities. Other factors significant to our proprietary rights include the knowledge and experience of our management and workforce and our ability to develop, enhance and market our technology and services. We license some technology and intellectual property rights from third parties. Generally, the license agreements that govern such third-party technology and intellectual property rights grant us the right to use the subject technology anywhere in the world and terminate upon a material breach by us. Human Capital Management As of August 31, 2022, our workforce includes diverse, talented and dedicated employees across approximately 100 locations in more than 30 countries who differentiate us from our competitors. To maintain our edge, we continually invest in our employees, so that they can take care of our customers, shareholders and communities. Following is a summary of employees by location (in thousands): Region Number of Employees Asia 182 Americas 51 Europe 17 Total (1) 250 (1) Total headcount includes permanent, temporary and contingent workers. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. In certain international locations, our employees are represented by labor unions and by works councils. We have not experienced a significant work stoppage or strike and promote positive employee relations. Safety Safety First is a fundamental value that is ingrained in our culture. We are committed to safety standards in all of our facilities, ensuring our employees are protected and can return home safely after each work shift. By implementing a continuous improvement-based Health and Safety Management System including annual training assessments coupled with engaged leaders and employees who prioritize safety above all else, we have established a path to safety excellence. COVID-19 Response 6 Table of Contents As a global employer, we have a responsibility to our employees, customers, suppliers and the communities in which we operate to take decisive action to protect against COVID-19 in our facilities. From the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we established prevention protocols, which allowed our sites to operate safely with minimal disruption. Quarantine and contact tracing protocols have been established for suspected and/or confirmed cases, and a robust follow-up process has been implemented to ensure the well-being of our employees. Human Rights We promote respect for fundamental human rights as an essential element of responsible corporate citizenship. We are a founding member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), which is one of the world s largest industry coalitions for corporate social responsibility in global supply chains. The RBA sets (1) standards regarding excessive working hours and unfair wages, (2) controls to prohibit child labor and human trafficking, and (3) avenues for employees to raise and address workplace health and safety concerns. We have aligned our work programs, processes and procedures to the RBA Code of Conduct to ensure working conditions are safe, employees are treated with respect and dignity and manufacturing process and practices are environmentally responsible. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion At Jabil, our workforce is diverse at its core, and our employees thrive in an entrepreneurial culture where they can do their best work. Diverse backgrounds, experiences and opinions are welcome. We work together in a way that enables our employees to be their true selves, challenges them and encourages them, while allowing them to make a difference at work and in the world. We act in accordance with our Code of Conduct to create an environment free from discrimination or harassment globally and respect the human rights of our employees. Moreover, we strive to achieve an inclusive and equitable workplace where opportunities for success are created and available for all employees. To achieve this, we provide training to our leaders on unconscious bias, and in fiscal year 2022, we deployed additional diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) learning with input from our DEI Council, which includes management and nonmanagement members. Jabil is committed to being a place where everyone is psychologically and physically safe to be authentically themselves. With our enterprise-wide priorities of mitigating bias, inclusive leadership and diverse talent development, we are committed to creating a culture of belonging. In fiscal year 2022, we launched multiple new initiatives to support a more diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace for all. We launched a Transgender Inclusive Workplace campaign, which included transgender guidelines; a sample plan for employees, their managers and human resources; a self-paced learning on LGBTQ+; and content regarding gender pronoun usage internally. We are proud of being a top scorer for Disability:IN's Disability Equality Index in 2022, the second year in a row. Sites around the world have increased their disability inclusion efforts, including teams who have provided sign language courses for employees, conducted assessments on their facilities for accessibility and partnered with nonprofits in their communities to recruit people with disabilities. Compensation and Benefits Jabil s compensation programs are designed to align the compensation of our employees with Jabil s performance and to provide the proper incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior results. Specifically: We provide employee pay levels that are competitive and consistent with employee positions, skill levels, experience, knowledge and geographic location. Salary increases and incentive compensation are based on merit and performance. All full-time U.S. employees are eligible f