Item 1. Business 2 Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 26 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 26 Item 2. Properties 28 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 28 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 28 Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 29 Item 6. [Reserved] 30 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 47 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 47 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 47 Item 9B. Other Information 48 Part III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 49 Item 11. Executive Compensation 49 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 49 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 49 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 49 Part IV. Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 50 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 94 Signatures 95 Table of Contents This Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ) contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Many of the forward-looking statements are located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the heading Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as future, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, will, would, should, could, can, may, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Company s actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements, and you are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading Risk Factors, which are incorporated herein by reference. References in this report to the Company, Jabil, we, our, or us mean Jabil Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business The Company We are one of the leading providers of manufacturing services and solutions worldwide. We provide comprehensive electronics design, production, and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets. Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products. Our services enable our customers to reduce manufacturing costs, improve supply chain management, reduce inventory obsolescence, lower transportation costs, and reduce product fulfillment times. We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability. Each business unit team serves as a single point of contact between a customer and Jabil. Business unit teams are supported by cross-functional teams, which leverage the power of our global expertise and capabilities to carry out work at the site level. We conduct our operations in facilities that are located worldwide, including but not limited to China, Mexico, Singapore, and the United States. Our global manufacturing production sites allow customers to manufacture products simultaneously in the optimal locations for their products. Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2024, we had net revenues of $28.9 billion and net income attributable to Jabil Inc. of $1.4 billion. On December 29, 2023 ( the Closing Date ), we completed the sale of our product manufacturing business in Chengdu, including its supporting component manufacturing in Wuxi (the Mobility Business ) to an affiliate of BYD Electronic (International) Co. Ltd. ( BYDE ) for pre-tax cash proceeds of approximately $2.2 billion, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. See Note 17 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. At August 31, 2024, we had two reporting segments: Electronics Manufacturing Services ( EMS ) and Diversified Manufacturing Services ( DMS ), which are organized based on the economic profiles of the services performed, including manufacturing capabilities, market strategy, margins, return on capital, and risk profiles. Our EMS segment is focused on leveraging IT, supply chain design and engineering, technologies largely centered on core electronics, utilizing our large scale manufacturing infrastructure and our ability to serve a broad range of end markets. Our EMS segment is a high volume business that produces product at a quicker rate (i.e. cycle time) and in larger quantities and includes customers primarily in the 5G, wireless and cloud, digital print and retail, industrial and semi-capital equipment, and networking and storage industries. Our DMS segment is focused on providing engineering solutions, with an emphasis on material sciences, machining, tooling, and molding of highly engineered plastic and metal parts. Our DMS segment includes customers primarily in the automotive and transportation, connected devices, and healthcare and packaging industries. The DMS segment included the results of the Mobility Business prior to the Closing Date. Beginning September 1, 2024, we reorganized our internal structure to focus on speed, precision, and solutions and as a result of our organizational realignment, we will report our business in the following three segments: Regulated Industries, Intelligent Infrastructure, and Connected Living and Digital Commerce. Our Regulated Industries segment is focused on regulated markets and includes revenues from customers primarily in the automotive and transportation, healthcare and packaging, and renewable energy infrastructure industries. Our Intelligent Infrastructure segment is focused on the modern digital ecosystem including artificial intelligence ( AI ) infrastructure and includes revenues from customers primarily in the capital equipment, cloud and data center infrastructure, and networking and communications industries. Our Connected Living and Digital Commerce segment is focused on digitalization and automation, including warehouse automation and robotics, and includes revenues from customers primarily in the connected living and digital commerce industries. Additional financial information regarding our reportable operating segments is included in Item 7 of this report and Note 14 Concentration of Risk and Segment Data to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 Table of Contents Industry Background Our industry was historically composed of companies that provide a range of design and manufacturing services to companies that utilize electronics components in their products. The industry subsequently expanded to include customers that require products and services beyond electronic components, including plastics and metal components, packaging, and injection molding. We monitor the current economic environment and its potential impact on both the customers we serve as well as our end markets; we closely manage our costs and capital resources so that we can respond appropriately as circumstances change. Over the long term we believe the factors driving our customers and potential customers to use our industry s services include: Efficient Manufacturing. Manufacturing solutions providers are often able to manufacture products at a reduced total cost to companies. These cost advantages result from higher utilization of capacity and efficiencies of scale because of diversified product demand and, generally, a greater focus on the components of manufacturing cost. Companies are increasingly seeking to reduce their investment in inventory, facilities, and equipment used in manufacturing and prioritizing capital investments in other activities, such as sales and marketing and research and development ( R D ). This strategic shift in capital deployment has contributed to increased demand for and interest in outsourcing to external manufacturing service providers. Accelerated Product Time-to-Market and Time-to-Volume. Manufacturing solutions providers are often able to deliver accelerated production start-ups and achieve high efficiencies in bringing new products to production. Providers are also able to more rapidly scale production for changing markets and to position themselves in global locations that serve the leading world markets. With increasingly shorter product life cycles, these key services allow new products to be sold in the marketplace in an accelerated time frame. Access to Advanced Design and Manufacturing Technologies. By utilizing manufacturing solutions providers, customers gain access to additional advanced technologies in manufacturing processes, as well as to product and production design, which can offer customers significant improvements in the performance, quality, cost, time-to-market and manufacturability of their products. Improved Inventory Management and Purchasing Power. Manufacturing solutions providers are often able to more efficiently manage both procurement and inventory. Providers have demonstrated proficiency in purchasing components at improved pricing due to the scale of their operations and continuous interaction with the materials marketplace. Global Reach and Regional Manufacturing. Manufacturing solutions providers operate globally and are often able to more efficiently transition the location of manufacturing processes for products in response to changing macroeconomic and geopolitical environments relying on installed footprints, local teams, and consistent processes. Our Strategy Our vision for the future is to become the world s most technologically advanced and trusted manufacturing solutions provider. As we work to achieve our vision, we continue to pursue the following strategies: Establish and Maintain Long-Term Customer Relationships. An important element of our strategy is to establish and maintain long-term relationships with leading companies in expanding industries with size and growth characteristics that can benefit from highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing on a global scale. We focus on maintaining long-term relationships with our customers and seek to expand these relationships to include additional product lines and services. In addition, we focus on identifying and developing relationships with new customers that meet our targeted profile, which includes financial stability, the need for technology-driven turnkey manufacturing, anticipated unit volume, and long-term relationship stability. Product Diversification. We focus on balancing our portfolio of products and product families to those that align with higher return areas of our business. This includes manufacturing, supply chain management services, comprehensive electronics design, production, and product management services for markets such as cloud and data infrastructure, healthcare, packaging, automotive and transportation, warehouse automation, networking and communications, and semi-capital equipment. We have made concentrated efforts to diversify our industry sectors and customer base. Because of these efforts, we have experienced business growth from both existing and new customers as well as from acquisitions. 3 Table of Contents Utilize Customer-Centric Business Units. Most of our business units are dedicated to serve one customer each and operate by primarily utilizing dedicated production equipment, production workers, supervisors, buyers, planners, and engineers to provide comprehensive manufacturing solutions that are customized to each customer s needs. We believe our customer-centric business units promote increased responsiveness to our customers needs, particularly for customer relationships that extend across multiple production locations. Leverage Global Production. We believe that global production is a key strategy to reduce obsolescence risk and secure the lowest possible landed costs while simultaneously supplying products of equivalent or comparable quality throughout the world. Consistent with this strategy, we have established or acquired operations in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Our extensive global footprint positions us well to implement safe and practical solutions in order to select production locations which best serve the needs of our customers. We believe that our global footprint is strengthened by our centralized procurement process, which, when coupled with our single Enterprise Resource Planning system, affords our customers with end-to-end supply chain visibility. Offer Systems Assembly, Direct-Order Fulfillment, and Configure-to-Order Services. Our systems assembly, direct-order fulfillment and configure-to-order services allow our customers to reduce product cost and risk of product obsolescence by reducing total work-in-process and finished goods inventory. These services are available at all of our manufacturing locations. Offer Design Services. We offer a wide spectrum of value-add design services to achieve improvements in performance, cost, time-to-market, and manufacturability. Pursue Acquisition Opportunities Selectively. The primary goals of our acquisition strategy are to complement our current capabilities, diversify our business into new industry sectors and with new customers, and expand the scope of the services we can offer to our customers. Our Approach to Manufacturing To achieve high levels of manufacturing performance, we have adopted the following approaches: Decentralized Business Unit Model. Most of our business units are dedicated to serve one customer each and are empowered to formulate strategies tailored to an individual customer s needs. Our business units generally have dedicated production lines consisting of equipment, production workers, supervisors, buyers, planners, and engineers. Under certain circumstances, a production line may serve more than one business unit to maximize resource utilization. Business units have direct responsibility for manufacturing results and time-to-volume production, thereby promoting a sense of individual commitment and ownership. The business unit approach is modular and enables us to grow incrementally without disrupting the operations of other business units. Business unit management reviews the customer financial information to assess whether the business units are meeting their designated responsibilities and to ensure that the daily execution of manufacturing activities is being effectively managed. The business units aggregate into operating segments based on the end markets they serve. Automated Continuous Flow. We use a highly automated, continuous flow approach to manufacturing, whereby different pieces of equipment are joined directly or by conveyor to create an in-line assembly process. This process contrasts with a batch approach, whereby individual pieces of assembly equipment are operated as freestanding work-centers. The elimination of waiting time prior to sequential operations results in faster manufacturing, which improves production efficiencies and quality control and reduces inventory work-in-process. We believe continuous flow manufacturing provides cost reductions and quality improvement when applied to high volumes of product. Computerized Control and Monitoring. We support all aspects of our manufacturing activities with advanced computerized control and monitoring systems. Component inspection and vendor quality are monitored electronically in real-time. Materials planning, purchasing, stockroom, and shop floor control systems are supported through a computerized manufacturing resource planning system. Electronic Supply Chain Management. We make available to our customers and suppliers an electronic commerce system/electronic data interchange and cloud-based tools to implement a variety of supply chain management programs. Our customers use these tools to share demand and product forecasts and deliver purchase orders, and we use these tools with our suppliers for just-in-time delivery, supplier-managed inventory, and consigned supplier-managed inventory. 4 Table of Contents Our Design Services We offer a wide spectrum of value-add design services to enhance our relationships with current customers and to help develop relationships with our new customers. Our teams are strategically staffed to support Jabil customers for all development projects, from turnkey system design and joint development to industrialization and product optimization activities. Our design services support products across all markets we serve and include products such as cloud data center server platforms; medical and consumer health devices; automotive assemblies for software defined vehicles, advanced driver assistance systems, autonomous systems, and electrification; connected consumer products and appliances; digital commerce ecosystem products for retail environments; power and storage products to support the energy infrastructure; and smart controls and security for digital building and utilities. These design services include: Electronic Design. Our Electronic Design team provides electronic hardware and embedded software design services for analog, digital, radio frequency, power, sensor, and optical component applications. This ranges from initial concept and system architecture through design implementation and new product introduction to mass production. Experience Design. Our Experience Design team works with product design teams to create product experiences that resonate with consumers through user research, industrial design, user interface design, and human factors. These capabilities are used to create, develop, and connect concepts and specifications that optimize the function, value, and appearance of products to satisfy the needs of consumers and manufacturing partners. Mechanical Design. Our Mechanical Design team specializes in mechanical design of plastic and metal components, enclosures, sub-assemblies, assemblies, and systems to meet product requirements with the analysis of electronic, electro-mechanical and optical assemblies using state of the art modeling and analytical tools. This includes all aspects of product concept, detail design, wide-ranging environmental applications, thermal management, and tooling management. Optical Design. Our Optical Design team focuses on applying our knowledge in advanced optics to provide optical product solutions for virtual and/or augmented reality, Light Detection and Ranging ( LiDAR ), 3D sensing, projection, and imaging. Throughout the design process, we develop the required processes, equipment, and testing specific to optics in order to take the customer from design to precision mass production. Industrialization Engineering Services. Our engineering services combine multiple functions to work with design teams to optimize products for maximum performance, highest quality, and time to market while balancing cost and manufacturability. These functions include our computer-assisted design ( CAD ) team, to provide PCBA design services using advanced CAD engineering tools, our Value Analysis and Value Engineering ( VAVE ) team, to increase value and decrease cost of both electrical and mechanical assemblies, and our Engineering Prototyping teams for all development stages. Product Verification. Our Product Verification team provides complete product verification throughout the full design cycle and executes specific test services. This includes product verification, failure analysis, regulatory, compliance and safety, packaging, simulation, and data analysis. Manufacturing Test Solution Development. Our Manufacturing Test Solution Development team provides integral support to the design teams to embed design with testability and to promote efficient capital and resource investment in the manufacturing process. The use of software driven instrumentation and test process design and management reduces human dependent test processes and allows customer product test traceability and visibility throughout the manufacturing test process. Fabrication and Assembly We offer systems assembly, test, direct-order fulfillment, and configure-to-order services to our customers. Our systems assembly services extend our range of assembly activities to include assembly of higher-level sub-systems and systems incorporating multiple PCBAs. In addition, based on quality assurance programs developed with our customers, we provide testing services for our PCBAs, sub-systems, and systems products. Our quality assurance programs include product testing under various environmental conditions to help ensure that our products meet or exceed required customer specifications. 5 Table of Contents Technology and Research and Development We believe that our manufacturing and testing technologies are among the most advanced in our industry. To meet our customers increasingly sophisticated needs, we continuously engage in R D activities designed to create new and improved products and manufacturing solutions for our customers. Through our R D efforts, we intend to continue offering our customers efficient manufacturing processes with high quality and differentiating product solutions using the latest technologies. These technologies and R D activities include: Automation, including automated tooling Electronic interconnection Advanced polymer and metal material science Single/multi-shot injection molding, stamping, and in-mold labeling Multi-axis computer numerical control Vacuum metallization Physical vapor deposition Digital printing Anodization Thermal-plastic composite formation Plastic with embedded electronics Metal and plastic covers with insert-molded or dies-casting features for assembly Display cover with integrated touch sensor Material processing research (including plastics, metal, glass, and ceramic) Additive manufacturing Outsourced semiconductor assembly and test ( OSAT ) capabilities Advanced electric assembly processes Co-packaged optics Liquid cooling Silicon photonics Sustainable materials and design Artificial intelligence and machine learning Our R D efforts span the markets we serve to provide our customers leading edge technologies and solutions. Customers and Marketing A key tenet of our strategy is to establish and maintain long-term relationships with leading companies in expanding industries with the size and growth characteristics that can benefit from highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing on a global scale. A small number of customers and significant industry sectors have historically comprised a major portion of our net revenue. We also market our services and solutions through our website and social media platforms. In fiscal year 2024, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 36% of our net revenue and 88 customers accounted for approximately 90% of our net revenue. The table below sets forth the respective portion of net revenue attributable to the customer that accounted for a significant concentration of our net revenue during the periods indicated: Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 2024 2023 2022 Apple, Inc. 11 % 17 % 19 % Competition Our business is highly competitive. We compete against numerous domestic and foreign electronic manufacturing solutions providers, diversified manufacturing service providers, and design providers. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. 6 Table of Contents We compete with different companies depending on the type of service we are providing or the geographic area in which an activity takes place. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the manufacturing services market are: cost; accelerated production time-to-market; higher efficiencies; global locations; rapid scaling of production; advanced technologies; quality; and improved pricing of components. We believe we are extremely competitive with regard to all of these factors. Components Procurement We procure components from a broad group of suppliers, determined on an assembly-by-assembly basis. Our global sourcing and purchasing locations are strategically placed in various countries throughout the world along with our global commodity management and supplier relationship teams. These locations manage our end-to-end procurement lifecycle. This regionalized expertise along with our supplier relationships provide efficient procurement operations. Some of the products we manufacture contain one or more components that are only available from a single source. Some of these components are allocated from time to time in response to supply shortages. In some cases, supply shortages will substantially curtail production of all assemblies using a particular component. Proprietary Rights We regard certain aspects of our technology, design, production and product management, supply chain, and other services as proprietary intellectual property. We rely largely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, non-disclosure agreements with our customers, employees, and suppliers and our internal security systems, policies, and procedures. We currently have a relatively modest number of patents for various innovations. We believe that our intellectual property portfolio will continue to evolve as we expand our business activities. Other factors significant to our proprietary rights include the knowledge and experience of our management and workforce and our ability to develop, enhance, and market our technology and services. We license some technology and intellectual property rights from third parties. Generally, the license agreements that govern such third-party technology and intellectual property rights grant us the right to use the subject technology anywhere in the world and terminate upon a material breach by us. Human Capital Management As of August 31, 2024, our workforce includes diverse, talented, and dedicated employees across approximately 100 locations in more than 30 countries who differentiate us from our competitors. To maintain our edge, we continually invest in our employees, so that they can take care of our customers, shareholders and communities. Following is a summary of employees by region (in thousands): Region Number of Employees Asia (1) 75 Americas 48 Europe 15 Total (2) 138 (1) Decrease from prior period is driven by the divestiture of the Mobility Business during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2024. See Note 17 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) Total headcount includes permanent, temporary and contingent workers. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. In certain international locations, our employees are represented by labor unions and by works councils. We promote positive employee relations globally and have not experienced a significant work stoppage or strike. Safety Safety First. Always. is a fundamental value that is ingrained in our culture. We are committed to safety standards in all of our facilities, so that our employees are protected and can return home safely after each work shift. We have implemented a continuous improvement-based Health and Safety Management System, including annual training assessments coupled with engaged leaders and employees who prioritize safety. 7 Table of Contents Human Rights We believe that respect for fundamental human rights as an essential element of responsible corporate citizenship. We are a founding member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), which is one of the world s largest industry coalitions for corporate social responsibility in global supply chains. The RBA sets (1) standards regarding excessive working hours and unfair wages, (2) controls to prohibit child labor and human trafficking, and (3) avenues for employees to raise and address workplace health and safety concerns. We have aligned our work programs, processes, and procedures to the RBA Code of Conduct to help support safe working conditions, treat employees with respect and dignity, and environmentally responsible manufacturing process and practices. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our diverse workforce provides us with the innovation and creativity that have allowed us to continue our success. Respect is th