ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 22 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 22 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 22 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 23 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 23 PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 25 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 27 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 28 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 45 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 46 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 113 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 113 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 114 PART III. ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 114 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 114 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 114 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 115 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 115 PART IV. ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 116 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 116 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 117 SIGNATURES 122 2 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Unless otherwise indicated, references to "Johnson Controls," the "Company," "we," "our" and "us" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Johnson Controls International plc and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company has made statements in this document that are forward-looking and therefore are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements in this document other than statements of historical fact are, or could be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In this document, statements regarding Johnson Controls' future financial position, sales, costs, earnings, cash flows, other measures of results of operations, synergies and integration opportunities, capital expenditures and debt levels are forward-looking statements. Words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "should," "forecast," "project" or "plan" and terms of similar meaning are also generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. However, the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Johnson Controls cautions that these statements are subject to numerous important risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, some of which are beyond Johnson Controls control, that could cause Johnson Controls actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, among others, risks related to: Johnson Controls ability to manage general economic, business, capital market and geopolitical conditions, including the impacts of natural disasters, pandemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases and other adverse public health developments, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; the strength of the U.S. or other economies; changes or uncertainty in laws, regulations, rates, policies or interpretations that impact Johnson Controls business operations or tax status; the ability to develop or acquire new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance; changes to laws or policies governing foreign trade, including increased tariffs or trade restrictions; maintaining the capacity, reliability and security of Johnson Controls' enterprise and product information technology infrastructure; the risk of infringement or expiration of intellectual property rights; any delay or inability of Johnson Controls to realize the expected benefits and synergies of recent portfolio transactions such as its merger with Tyco and the disposition of the Power Solutions business; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings; the ability to hire and retain key senior management; the tax treatment of recent portfolio transactions; significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities associated with such transactions; the availability of raw materials and component products; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with the labor force; and the cancellation of or changes to commercial arrangements. A detailed discussion of risks related to Johnson Controls business is included in the section entitled "Risk Factors" (refer to Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, unless otherwise specified, and, except as required by law, Johnson Controls assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS General Johnson Controls International plc, headquartered in Cork, Ireland, is a global diversified technology and multi-industrial leader, serving a wide range of customers in more than 150 countries. The Company s products and solutions enable smart, energy efficient, sustainable buildings that work seamlessly together to advance the safety, comfort and intelligence of spaces to power its customers mission. The Company is committed to helping its customers win and creating greater value for all of its stakeholders through its strategic focus on buildings. Johnson Controls was originally incorporated in the state of Wisconsin in 1885 as Johnson Electric Service Company to manufacture, install and service automatic temperature regulation systems for buildings. The Company was renamed to Johnson Controls, Inc. in 1974. In 2005, the Company acquired York International, a global supplier of heating, ventilating, air-conditioning ("HVAC") and refrigeration equipment and services. In 2014, the Company acquired Air Distribution Technologies, Inc., one of the largest independent providers of air distribution and ventilation products in North America. In 2015, the Company formed a joint venture with Hitachi to expand its building related product offerings. In 2016, Johnson Controls, Inc. and Tyco completed their combination (the "Merger"), combining Johnson Controls portfolio of building efficiency solutions with Tyco s portfolio of fire and security solutions. Following the Merger, Tyco changed its name to Johnson Controls International plc. In 2016, Johnson Controls completed the spin-off of its automotive business into Adient plc, an independent, publicly traded company. In 2019, the Company sold its Power Solutions business to BCP Acquisitions LLC, an entity controlled by 3 investment funds managed by Brookfield Capital Partners LLC, completing the Company s transformation into a pure-play building technologies and solutions provider. The Company is a global leader in engineering, manufacturing and commissioning building products and systems, including residential and commercial HVAC equipment, industrial refrigeration systems, controls, security systems, fire detection systems and fire suppression solutions. The Company further serves customers by providing technical services, including maintenance, repair, retrofit and replacement of equipment (in the HVAC, security and fire-protection space), energy-management consulting and data-driven smart building services and solutions powered by its digital platforms and capabilities. Business Segments The Company conducts its business through four business segments: Building Solutions North America, Building Solutions EMEA/LA, Building Solutions Asia Pacific and Global Products. Building Solutions North America: Building Solutions North America designs, sells, installs, and services HVAC, controls, refrigeration, integrated electronic security, and integrated fire detection and suppression systems for commercial, industrial, retail, small business, institutional and governmental customers in North America. Building Solutions North America also provides energy efficiency solutions and technical services, including inspection, scheduled maintenance, and repair and replacement of mechanical and control systems, as well as data-driven smart building solutions, to non-residential building and industrial applications in the North American marketplace. Building Solutions EMEA/LA: Building Solutions EMEA/LA designs, sells, installs, and services HVAC, controls, refrigeration, integrated electronic security, integrated fire detection and suppression systems, and provides technical services, including data-driven smart building solutions, to markets in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. Building Solutions Asia Pacific: Building Solutions Asia Pacific designs, sells, installs, and services HVAC, controls, refrigeration, integrated electronic security, integrated fire detection and suppression systems, and provides technical services, including data-driven smart building solutions, to the Asia Pacific marketplace. Global Products: Global Products designs and produces heating and air conditioning for residential and commercial applications, and markets products and refrigeration systems to replacement and new construction market customers globally. The Global Products business also designs, manufactures and sells fire protection and security products, including intrusion security, anti-theft devices, and access control and video management systems, for commercial, industrial, retail, residential, small business, institutional and governmental customers worldwide. Global Products also includes the Johnson Controls-Hitachi joint venture. For more information on the Company s segments, refer to Note 19, "Segment Information," of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Products/Systems and Services The Company sells and installs its commercial HVAC control systems, security systems, fire-detection systems, equipment and services primarily through its extensive direct channel, consisting of a global network of sales and service offices. Significant sales are also generated through global third-party channels, such as distributors of air-conditioning, controls, security and fire-detection products. The Company s large base of current customers leads to significant repeat business for the maintenance, retrofit and replacement markets. The Company is also able to leverage its installed base to generate sales for its service business. Trusted building brands, such as YORK , Hitachi Air Conditioning, Metasys , Ansul, Ruskin , Titus , Frick , PENN , Sabroe , Simplex and Grinnell give the Company the most diverse portfolio in the building technology industry. The Company provides data-driven services and solutions to create smarter, safer and more sustainable buildings. In fiscal 2020, the Company launched OpenBlue, a digitally driven suite of connected solutions that delivers impactful sustainability, new occupant experiences, and respectful safety and security by combining the Company s building expertise with cutting-edge technology, including AI-powered service solutions such as remote diagnostics, predictive maintenance, compliance monitoring and advanced risk assessments. In fiscal 2020, approximately 35% of sales originated from product offerings, 38% of sales originated from installations and 27% of sales originated from service offerings. 4 Competition The Company conducts its operations through thousands of individual contracts that are either negotiated or awarded on a competitive basis. Key factors in the award of contracts include system and service performance, quality, price, design, reputation, technology, application engineering capability and construction or project management expertise. Competitors for HVAC equipment, security, fire detection, fire suppression and controls in the residential and non-residential marketplace include many regional, national and international providers. Larger competitors include Honeywell International, Inc.; Siemens Building Technologies, an operating group of Siemens AG; Schneider Electric SA; Carrier Global Corporation; Trane Technologies plc; Daikin Industries, Ltd.; Lennox International, Inc.; GC Midea Holding Co, Ltd. and Gree Electric Appliances, Inc. In addition to HVAC equipment, the Company competes in a highly fragmented HVAC services market. The loss of any individual contract or customer would not have a material adverse effect on the Company. Business Strategy The Company s business strategy is to sustain and expand its position as a global diversified technology and multi-industrial leader in HVAC, industrial refrigeration, fire protection, security and building management systems by offering a full spectrum of products and solutions for customer buildings across the globe. The Company executes its strategy by creating growth platforms, driving operational improvements and creating a high performance culture. The Company has strong starting positions in attractive and growing end-markets across HVAC, controls, fire, security and services, enhanced by its comprehensive product portfolio and substantial installed base. The Company believes that it is well positioned to capitalize on the prevalent trends in the buildings industry, including sustainability and energy efficiency, urbanization in smarter and safer buildings and infrastructure. The Company has three strategic priorities: Leading position in commercial HVAC equipment: Leverage the technological advantages created by the Company s chiller and rooftop platforms and continued investment in emerging areas such as heat pumps, into leading positions in commercial HVAC. The Company intends to pursue both organic and inorganic opportunities to expand its global commercial HVAC position. Leading position in building management systems : Strengthen the existing portfolio of individual core systems across controls, fire and security while leading the migration towards flatter architectures and convergence, and building out the capabilities to be a leader in smart buildings which result in lower cost, autonomous and higher value customer outcomes. Growth enabled by digital : Integrate digital capabilities into our products, including predictive analytics, digital twin technology and smart building applications, to provide differentiated capabilities and drive growth. Leverage differentiated capabilities including services innovation enabled by digital, tiered service offerings and efficient service delivery, coupled with the company s large installed base to accelerate service growth. To realize these priorities, the Company is leveraging its technology leadership, comprehensive product portfolio, global presence, substantial installed base and strong channels to monetize the lifecycle opportunities of install, service, retrofit and replacement which are established and delivered by the Company s direct field businesses across the globe. Towards this end, the Company s field businesses are focused on commercial excellence, technology-enabled services and execution rigor. Backlog The Company s backlog is applicable to its sales of systems and services. At September 30, 2020, the backlog was $9.4 billion, of which $9.2 billion was attributable to the field business. The backlog amount outstanding at any given time is not necessarily indicative of the amount of revenue to be earned in the upcoming fiscal year. At September 30, 2020, remaining performance obligations were $14.4 billion, which is $5.0 billion higher than the Company's backlog of $9.4 billion. Differences between the Company s remaining performance obligations and backlog are primarily due to the following: Remaining performance obligations include large, multi-purpose contracts to construct hospitals, schools and other governmental buildings, which are services to be performed over the building's lifetime with initial contract terms of 25 to 35 years for the entire term of the contract versus backlog which includes only the lifecycle period of these contracts which approximates five years; 5 The Company has elected to exclude from remaining performance obligations certain contracts with customers with a term of one year or less or contracts that are cancelable without substantial penalty while these contracts are included within backlog; and Remaining performance obligations include the full remaining term of service contracts with substantial termination penalties versus backlog which includes one year for all outstanding service contracts. The Company will continue to report backlog as it believes it is a useful measure of evaluating the Company's operational performance and relationship to total orders. Raw Materials Raw materials used by the businesses in connection with their operations, including steel, aluminum, brass, copper, polypropylene and certain flurochemicals used in fire suppression agents, were readily available during fiscal 2020. The Company expects such availability to continue. In fiscal 2021, commodity prices could fluctuate throughout the year and could significantly affect the results of operations. Intellectual Property Generally, the Company seeks statutory protection for strategic or financially important intellectual property developed in connection with its business. Certain intellectual property, where appropriate, is protected by contracts, licenses, confidentiality or other agreements. From time to time, the Company takes action to protect its businesses by asserting its intellectual property rights against third-party infringers. The Company owns numerous U.S. and non-U.S. patents (and their respective counterparts), the more important of which cover those technologies and inventions embodied in current products or which are used in the manufacture of those products. While the Company believes patents are important to its business operations and in the aggregate constitute a valuable asset, no single patent, or group of patents, is critical to the success of the business. The Company, from time to time, grants licenses under its patents and technology and receives licenses under patents and technology of others. The Company s trademarks, certain of which are material to its business, are registered or otherwise legally protected in the U.S. and many non-U.S. countries where products and services of the Company are sold. The Company, from time to time, becomes involved in trademark licensing transactions. Most works of authorship produced for the Company, such as computer programs, catalogs and sales literature, carry appropriate notices indicating the Company s claim to copyright protection under U.S. law and appropriate international treaties. Environmental, Health and Safety Matters Laws addressing the protection of the environment and workers safety and health govern the Company s ongoing global operations. They generally provide for civil and criminal penalties, as well as injunctive and remedial relief, for noncompliance or require remediation of sites where Company-related materials have been released into the environment. The Company has expended substantial resources globally, both financial and managerial, to comply with environmental laws and worker safety laws and maintains procedures designed to foster and ensure compliance. Certain of the Company s businesses are, or have been, engaged in the handling or use of substances that may impact workplace health and safety or the environment. The Company is committed to protecting its workers and the environment against the risks associated with these substances. The Company s operations and facilities have been, and in the future may become, the subject of formal or informal enforcement actions or proceedings for noncompliance with environmental laws and worker safety laws or for the remediation of Company-related substances released into the environment. Such matters typically are resolved with regulatory authorities through commitments to compliance, abatement or remediation programs and, in some cases, payment of penalties. See Note 22, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion of environmental matters. 6 Government Regulation and Supervision The Company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, both within and outside the U.S., in areas such as consumer protection, government contracts, international trade, environmental protection, labor and employment, tax, licensing and others. For example, most U.S. states and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company operates have licensing laws directed specifically toward the alarm and fire suppression industries. The Company's security businesses currently rely extensively upon the use of wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals. Wireline and wireless telephone companies in the U.S. are regulated by the federal and state governments. In addition, government regulation of fire safety codes can impact the Company's fire businesses. The Company s businesses may also be affected by changes in governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards, noise regulation and product safety regulations, including changes related to hydro fluorocarbons/emissions reductions efforts, energy conservation standards and the regulation of fluorinated gases. These and other laws and regulations impact the manner in which the Company conducts its business, and changes in legislation or government policies can affect the Company's worldwide operations, both favorably and unfavorably. For a more detailed description of the various laws and regulations that affect the Company's business, see