ITEM 1. BUSINESS 3 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 26 ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY 27 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 28 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 28 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 28 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 29 PART II. ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 30 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 31 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 32 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 50 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 51 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 112 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 112 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 113 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 113 PART III. ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 113 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 114 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 114 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 115 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 115 PART IV. ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 116 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY 116 INDEX TO EXHIBITS 117 SIGNATURES 122 2 CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Unless otherwise indicated, references to "Johnson Controls," the "Company," "we," "our" and "us" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Johnson Controls International plc and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company has made statements in this document that are forward-looking and therefore are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements in this document other than statements of historical fact are, or could be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In this document, statements regarding the Company s future financial position, sales, costs, earnings, cash flows, other measures of results of operations, synergies and integration opportunities, capital expenditures, debt levels and market outlook are forward-looking statements. Words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "should," "forecast," "project" or "plan" and terms of similar meaning are also generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. However, the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. The Company cautions that these statements are subject to numerous important risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company s control, that could cause the Company s actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including, among others, risks related to: The Company's ability to develop or acquire new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance and meet applicable quality and regulatory requirements; the ability of the company to execute on its operating model and drive organizational improvement; the Company's ability to successfully execute and complete portfolio simplification, including the completion of the divestiture of the Residential and Light Commercial business, as well as the possibility that the expected benefits of such actions will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the ability to hire and retain senior management and other key personnel, including successfully executing the Company's Chief Executive Officer succession plan; the ability to innovate and adapt to emerging technologies, ideas and trends in the marketplace, including the incorporation of technologies such as artificial intelligence; the ability to manage general economic, business and capital market conditions, including the impact of recessions, economic downturns and global price inflation; fluctuations in the cost and availability of public and private financing for the Company's customers; the ability to manage macroeconomic and geopolitical volatility, including supply chain shortages and the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas; managing the risks and impacts of potential and actual security breaches, cyberattacks, privacy breaches or data breaches, maintaining and improving the capacity, reliability and security of the Company's enterprise information technology infrastructure; the ability to manage the lifecycle cybersecurity risk in the development, deployment and operation of the Company's digital platforms and services; changes to laws or policies governing foreign trade, including economic sanctions, tariffs, foreign exchange and capital controls, import/export controls or other trade restrictions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; changes or uncertainty in laws, regulations, rates, policies, or interpretations that impact the Company's business operations or tax status; the ability to adapt to global climate change, climate change regulation and successfully meet the Company's public sustainability commitments; risks and uncertainties related to the settlement with a nationwide class of public water systems concerning the use of AFFF; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings; the risk of infringement or expiration of intellectual property rights; the Company's ability to manage disruptions caused by catastrophic or geopolitical events, such as natural disasters, armed conflict, political change, climate change, pandemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases and other adverse public health developments; any delay or inability of the Company to realize the expected benefits and synergies of recent portfolio transactions; the tax treatment of recent portfolio transactions; significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities associated with such transactions; labor shortages, work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with the labor force; and the cancellation of or changes to commercial arrangements. A detailed discussion of risks related to Johnson Controls business is included in the section entitled "Risk Factors" (refer to Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, unless otherwise specified, and, except as required by law, Johnson Controls assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to update such statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this document. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS General Johnson Controls International plc, headquartered in Cork, Ireland, is a global leader in smart, healthy and sustainable buildings, serving a wide range of customers in more than 150 countries. The Company s products, services, systems and solutions advance the safety, comfort and intelligence of spaces to serve people, places and the planet. The Company is committed to helping its customers win and creating greater value for all of its stakeholders through its strategic focus on buildings. 3 Johnson Controls was originally incorporated in the state of Wisconsin in 1885 as Johnson Electric Service Company to manufacture, install and service automatic temperature regulation systems for buildings and was renamed Johnson Controls, Inc. in 1974. In 2005, Johnson Controls acquired York International, a global supplier of heating, ventilating and air-conditioning ("HVAC") and refrigeration equipment and services. Following this acquisition, Johnson Controls continued to expand its portfolio of building related product and service offerings for residential and commercial customers. In 2016, Johnson Controls, Inc. and Tyco International plc ("Tyco") completed their combination (the "Merger"), combining Johnson Controls' portfolio of building efficiency solutions with Tyco s portfolio of fire and security solutions. Following the Merger, Tyco changed its name to Johnson Controls International plc. In 2016, the Company completed the spin-off of its automotive business into Adient plc, an independent, publicly traded company. In 2019, the Company closed the sale of its Power Solutions business, completing the Company s transformation into a pure-play building technologies and solutions provider. In 2024, the Company announced that it was evaluating its non-core product lines in connection with its objective to be a pure-play provider of technologies and solutions for commercial buildings. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, the Company completed the sale of its Air Distribution Technologies business included within its Global Products segment. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Residential and Light Commercial ("R LC") HVAC business to Robert Bosch GmbH ( Bosch ). The R LC HVAC business includes the Company's North America ducted business and Johnson Controls-Hitachi Air Conditioning Holding (UK) Ltd., the Company s global residential joint venture with Hitachi Global Life Solutions, Inc. ( Hitachi ), of which the Company owns 60% and Hitachi owns 40%. The sale of the R LC HVAC business is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025. The Company is a global leader in engineering, manufacturing, commissioning and retrofitting building products and systems, including residential and commercial HVAC equipment, industrial refrigeration systems, controls, security systems, fire-detection systems and fire-suppression solutions. The Company further serves customers by providing technical services, including maintenance, management, repair, retrofit and replacement of equipment (in the HVAC, industrial refrigeration, security and fire-protection space), and energy-management consulting. The Company's OpenBlue digital software platform enables enterprises to better manage their physical spaces by combining the Company's building products and services with cutting-edge technology and digital capabilities to enable data-driven smart building services and solutions. The Company partners with customers by leveraging its broad product portfolio and digital capabilities powered by OpenBlue, together with its direct channel service and solutions capabilities, to deliver outcome-based solutions across the lifecycle of a building that address customers needs to improve energy efficiency, enhance security, create healthy environments and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Business Segments The Company conducts its business through four business segments: Building Solutions North America which operates in the United States and Canada; Building Solutions EMEA/LA which operates in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America; Building Solutions Asia Pacific which operates in Asia Pacific; and Global Products which operates worldwide. The Building Solutions segments: Design, sell, install and service HVAC, controls, building management, refrigeration, integrated electronic security and integrated fire-detection and suppression systems; and Provide energy-efficiency solutions and technical services, including data-driven "smart building" solutions as well as inspection, scheduled maintenance, and repair and replacement of mechanical and controls systems. The Global Products segment designs, manufactures and sells: HVAC equipment, controls software and software services; Refrigeration equipment and controls; Fire protection and suppression; and Security products, including intrusion security, anti-theft devices, access control, and video surveillance and management systems. 4 The Company s segments provide products and services primarily to commercial, institutional, industrial, data center, and governmental customers. For more information on the Company s segments, refer to Note 19, "Segment Information," of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Products, Systems, Services and Solutions The Company sells and installs its commercial HVAC equipment and systems, control systems, security systems, fire-detection and fire suppression systems, equipment and services primarily through its extensive direct channel, consisting of a global network of sales and service offices. Significant sales are also generated through global third-party channels, such as distributors of air-conditioning, controls, security and fire-detection and suppression products. The Company s large base of current customers leads to significant repeat business for the maintenance, retrofit and replacement markets. The Company is also able to leverage its installed base to generate sales for its service business. Trusted building brands, such as YORK , Metasys , Ansul, Frick , FM:Systems , PENN , Sabroe , Silent-Aire , Simplex and Grinnell , together with the breadth and depth of the products, systems and solutions offered by the Company, give it what it believes to be the most diverse portfolio in the building technology industry. The Company has developed software platforms, including on-premises platforms and cloud-based software services, and integrated its products and services with digital capabilities to provide data-driven solutions to create smarter, safer and more sustainable buildings. The Company's OpenBlue platform enables enterprises to better manage their physical spaces delivering sustainability, new occupant experiences, safety and security by combining the Company s building expertise with cutting-edge technology, including artificial intelligence and machine learning-powered service solutions such as remote diagnostics, predictive maintenance, workplace management, compliance monitoring and advanced risk assessments. The Company leverages its product portfolio and service network, together with digital and data-driven technologies to offer integrated and customizable solutions focused on delivering outcomes to customers, including OpenBlue Buildings-as-a-Service, OpenBlue Net Zero Buildings-as-a-Service and OpenBlue Healthy Buildings. These services are generally designed to generate recurring revenue for the Company as it supports its customers in achieving their desired outcomes. In fiscal 2024, products and systems accounted for 70% of sales from continuing operations and services accounted for 30% of sales from continuing operations. Competition The Company conducts its operations through a significant number of individual contracts that are either negotiated or awarded on a competitive basis. Key factors in the award of contracts include system and service performance, quality, price, design, reputation, technology, application engineering capability, availability of financing and construction or project management expertise. Competitors for HVAC equipment, security, fire-detection, fire suppression and controls in the residential and non-residential marketplace include many local, regional, national and international providers. Larger competitors include Honeywell International, Inc.; Siemens Smart Infrastructure, an operating group of Siemens AG; Schneider Electric SA; Carrier Global Corporation; Trane Technologies plc; Daikin Industries, Ltd.; Lennox International, Inc.; GC Midea Holding Co, Ltd. and Gree Electric Appliances, Inc. In addition, the Company competes in a highly fragmented building services market. The Company also faces competition from a diverse range of established companies, start-ups and other emerging entrants to the buildings industry in the areas of digital services, software as a service and the Internet of Things. The loss of any individual contract or customer would not have a material adverse effect on the Company. Business Strategy The Company s business strategy is to sustain and expand its position as a leader in commercial building technology and solutions by offering a full spectrum of products and solutions for commercial customers across the globe. In 2024, the Company acted to optimize its core commercial buildings portfolio with the sale of its Air Distribution Technologies business and the entry into a definitive agreement to sell its R LC HVAC business. Following these portfolio optimization actions, the Company s core strategy remains focused on creating growth platforms, driving operational improvements and creating a high-performance, customer-centric culture. The Company has strong positions in attractive and growing end-markets across HVAC, controls, fire, security and services, enhanced by its comprehensive product portfolio and substantial installed base. The Company believes that it is well positioned to capitalize on the emerging and prevalent trends in the commercial buildings industry, including data centers, sustainable buildings, healthy buildings/indoor environmental quality and smart buildings. To capitalize on these trends, the Company 5 remains focused on maintaining leading positions in delivering commercial building products, systems and solutions through its direct and indirect channels, as well as enabling growth through digital, to develop and leverage the breath of its portfolio to drive attachment, offer differentiated services and solutions over the building lifecycle and generate recurring revenue. In furtherance of these goals, the Company has four strategic priorities: Capitalize on Key Growth Vectors: Data centers, sustainable buildings, healthy buildings/indoor environmental quality and smart buildings represent key growth opportunities for the Company. The Company seeks to leverage its existing portfolio breadth and investments in product development, combined with the expansion of its digital products and capabilities powered by OpenBlue, to offer differentiated solutions and innovative deal structures to help customers achieve their objectives. The Company intends to expand its capabilities by investing in products and technologies, as well as expanding its partnerships, to power innovation that will allow it to provide differentiated services that are tailored to its customers desired outcomes. Bringing Value Across the Building Lifecycle : The Company provides system and service solutions that maximize the opportunities around the lifecycle of the building, delivering outcomes to the customer that save energy, reduce emissions and optimize building lifecycle costs while improving the overall occupant experience. The Company s ability to drive direct, integrated solutions within multiple domains enables opportunities for attachment, cross-selling, recurring revenue, and developing long term relationships with customers from installation to service, retrofit, and replacement. Accelerate in High Growth Digital Services, Regions and Verticals : The Company is focused on transforming its large service business through digital technology, further enabled by the Company s installed base, domain expertise and global coverage. The Company is focused on developing and deploying connected equipment, systems and controls that will support the provision of digital services and solutions. The Company further intends to expand its presence in high growth regions and invest in high growth verticals within the markets it serves, including healthcare, commercial offices/campus, education and data centers. Sustain a High-Performance, Customer-Centric Culture : The Company recognizes that developing talent and creating positive customer experiences is central to accomplishing its business strategies. The Company is investing in its talent to build a diverse workforce that is digital capable, solutions oriented and focused on continuous learning and growth. The Company aims to leverage its talent capabilities and training to create a customer-focused culture to drive customer loyalty and decisions. To realize these priorities, the Company is leveraging its technology leadership, comprehensive product portfolio, global presence, substantial installed base and strong channels to monetize the lifecycle opportunities of systems, service, retrofit and replacement which are established and delivered by the Company s direct field businesses and third-party channels across the globe. The Company is augmenting its strategic priorities with disciplined execution, productivity enhancements and sustainable cost management to create a path to realize expanded margins and enhanced profitability. Backlog and Orders Backlog and orders are additional metrics that are meant to provide management with a deeper level of insight into the progress of specific strategic and growth initiatives. Backlog is applicable to sales of products and systems and services and totaled $15.2 billion at September 30, 2024, including both the Building Solutions and Global Products segments. Orders provide management with a signal of customer demand for the Company's products and services, as well as an indication of future revenues and performance. However, the timing and conversion of backlog and orders are subject to numerous uncertainties and risks and are not necessarily indicative of the amount of revenue to be earned in the upcoming fiscal year. The following table summarizes backlog and orders for the Building Solutions segments: Backlog Orders (in billions) September 30, 2024 Year-over-Year Change (1) Year ended September 30, 2024 Year-over-Year Change (1) Building Solutions North America $ 9.1 10 % $ 12.3 9 % Building Solutions EMEA/LA 2.5 10 % 4.6 9 % Building Solutions Asia Pacific 1.5 (10) % 2.5 (8) % Total Building Solutions $ 13.1 7 % $ 19.4 7 % (1) Change is compared to September 30, 2023 (backlog) and the year ended September 30, 2023 (orders) and excludes the impact of mergers, acquisitions, dispositions and foreign currency. 6 Remaining performance obligations were $21.1 billion at September 30, 2024. Differences between the Company s remaining performance obligations and backlog are primarily due to: Remaining performance obligations include large, multi-purpose contracts to construct hospitals, schools and other governmental buildings, which are services to be performed over the building's lifetime with average initial contract terms of 25 to 35 years for the entire term of the contract versus backlog which includes only the lifecycle period of these contracts which approximates five years; Remaining performance obligations exclude service contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less and contracts that are cancellable without substantial penalty versus backlog which includes short-term and cancellable contracts; and Remaining performance obligations include the full remaining term of service contracts with substantial termination penalties versus backlog which includes only one year for all outstanding service contracts. The Company reports backlog, which it believes is a useful measure of evaluating the Company's operational performance and relationship to total orders. Raw Materials Raw materials used by the Company s businesses in connection with their operations include steel, aluminum, brass, copper, polypropylene and certain fluorochemicals used in fire suppression agents. The Company also uses semiconductors and other electronic components in the manufacture of its products. During fiscal 2022 and portions of fiscal 2023, the Company experienced material cost increases due to global inflation, supply chain disruptions, labor shortages, increased demand and other regulatory and macroeconomic factors. The collective impact of these trends were favorable to revenue due to increased demand and price increases to offset inflation, while negatively impacting margins due to supply chain disruptions and cost pressures. However, throughout fiscal 2023 and 2024, the Company experienced improved margins as supply chain disruptions eased and higher priced backlog was converted to sales, as discussed in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Although the Company has seen its supply chain normalize, the Company could experience further disruptions, shortages and price inflation in the future, the effect of which will depend on the Company s ability to successfully mitigate and offset the impact of these events. In fiscal 2025, commodity prices and availability could fluctuate throughout the year and could significantly affect the Company s results of operations. For a more detailed description of the risks related to the availability of raw materials, components and commodities, see