ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 20 ITEM 1C. C YBERSECURITY 20 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 21 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 21 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 21 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 22 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 23 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 24 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 32 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 33 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 59 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 59 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 59 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 59 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 60 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 60 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 60 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 60 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 60 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 61 ITEM 16 FORM 10-K SUMMARY 63 3 In this report, all references to "Jack Henry," the Company," we," us," and our," refer to Jack Henry Associates, Inc., and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months, or periods refer to the Company's fiscal years ended in June and the associated quarters, months, and periods of those fiscal years. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, seek, anticipate, estimate, future, intend, plan, strategy, predict, likely, should, will, would, could, can, may, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based only on management s current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of the Company, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in particular, those included in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this report, and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. Any forward-looking statement made in this report speaks only as of the date of this report, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Jack Henry Associates, Inc. is a well-rounded financial technology company that strengthens connections between financial institutions and the people and businesses they serve. For more than 48 years, we have provided technology solutions to help banks and credit unions innovate faster, strategically differentiate, and successfully compete while serving the evolving needs of their accountholders. We empower approximately 7,500 financial institutions and diverse corporate entities with people-inspired innovation, personal service, and insight-driven solutions. Mission Statement We strengthen the connections between people and their financial institutions through technology and services that reduce the barriers to financial health. This philosophy has always been part of the foundation on which Jack Henry was built. Our founders, Jack Henry and Jerry Hall, were committed to their community and believed they could help financial institutions better serve the needs of people and businesses using more innovative technology and services. Since our founding in 1976, much has changed, but our commitment to supporting community and regional financial institutions remains unwavering. We continue to be guided by our founding principles: do the right thing, do whatever it takes, and have fun. Who We Serve We provide products and services primarily to community and regional financial institutions (see "Our Industry" below): Core bank integrated data processing systems are provided to over 940 banks. Our banking solutions support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments with functionality for core processing platforms and integrated complementary solutions. Core credit union data processing solutions are provided to credit unions of all sizes, with a client base of approximately 720 credit unions. We offer a flagship core processing platform and integrated complementary solutions that support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments. Non-core highly specialized core-agnostic products and services are also provided to financial institutions. We offer complementary solutions that include highly specialized financial performance, imaging and payments processing, information security and risk management, retail delivery, and online and mobile functionality. These products and services enhance the performance of traditional financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters, and non-traditional diverse corporate entities. In total, we serve over 1,660 bank and credit union core clients and over 5,870 non-core clients. Our products and services provide our clients with solutions that can be tailored to support their unique growth, service, operational, and performance goals. Our well-rounded solutions also enable financial institutions to offer the high-demand products and services required by their accountholders to compete more successfully and to capitalize on evolving trends shaping the financial services industry. We are committed to exceeding our clients expectations. We measure and monitor their satisfaction using a variety of surveys, such as an annual survey on the client's anniversary date and randomly-generated online surveys initiated each day by routine support requests to ensure feedback is received throughout the year. The survey results are analyzed and provided to operational areas to ensure our service consistently exceeds our clients expectations. We believe this process ensures we understand the Voice of the Customer which contributes to our excellent retention rates. We are focused on establishing long-term client relationships, continually expanding and strengthening those relationships. We do so with cross sales of additional products and services that support our clients' strategy, earning new financial and non-financial clients, and ensuring our product offerings are highly competitive. The majority of our support and services revenue is derived from our private and public cloud services for our hosted clients that are typically on a six-year contract, recurring electronic payment solutions that are generally on a contract term of six years, and our on-premise clients that are typically on a one-year contract. Less predictable software license fees, paid by clients implementing our software solutions on-premise, and hardware sales, including all non-software products that we re-market in order to support our software systems, complement our primary revenue sources. Information regarding the classification of our business into four separate segments is set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements (see Item 8). 5 We recognize that our associates and their collective contributions are ultimately responsible for Jack Henry's past, present, and future success. Recruiting and retaining high-quality associates is essential to our ongoing growth and financial performance, and we believe we have established an organizational culture that sustains high levels of associate engagement. For further discussion of our human capital considerations, see "Human Capital" below. Our Industry Our core banking solutions currently serve commercial banks and savings institutions with up to $50 billion in assets. Our systems are designed to be capable of serving institutions with up to $100 billion in assets, and we complete annual, third-party testing to validate this capability each August. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), there were approximately 4,540 commercial banks and savings institutions in the less than $50 billion asset range as of December 31, 2023, and we currently support over 940 of these banks with one of our three core information processing platforms and a significant number of complementary/payment products and services. Our core credit union solutions serve credit unions of all asset sizes. According to America's Credit Unions ("ACU") (formerly Credit Union National Association), there were approximately 4,700 domestic credit unions as of December 31, 2023, and we currently support approximately 720 of these credit unions with one flagship core information processing platform and a significant number of complementary/payment products and services. Our non-core solutions serve financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters and other diverse corporate entities. We currently support financial institutions with specialized solutions for generating additional revenue and growth, increasing security, mitigating operational risks, and controlling operating costs. The FDIC reports the number of commercial banks and savings institutions declined 15% from the beginning of calendar year 2018 to the end of calendar year 2023, due mainly to mergers and acquisitions. Although the number of banks continued to decline at a 3% compound annual rate during this period, aggregate assets increased at a compound annual rate of 6% and totaled $23.7 trillion as of December 31, 2023. There were six new bank charters issued in calendar year 2023, compared to 15 in the 2022 calendar year. Comparing calendar years 2023 to 2022, the number of transactions of FDIC-insured banks acquiring or merging with other banks or credit unions decreased 20%. ACU reports the number of credit unions declined 14% from the beginning of calendar year 2018 to the end of calendar year 2023. Although the number of credit unions declined at a 3% compound annual rate during this period, aggregate assets increased at a compound annual rate of 9% and totaled $2.3 trillion as of December 31, 2023. Community and regional financial institutions are vitally important to the communities, consumers, and businesses they serve as well as to the local economies where they operate. Bank customers and credit union members rely on these institutions to provide personalized, relationship-based service and competitive financial products and services available through the accountholders' delivery channel of choice. Institutions are recognizing that attracting and retaining customers and members in today s highly competitive financial industry and realizing near-term and long-term performance goals are often technology dependent. Financial institutions must implement technological solutions that enable them to: Offer e-commerce, mobile, and digital strategies that provide the convenience-driven services required in today s financial services industry. Maximize performance with accessible, accurate, and timely business intelligence information. Provide the high-demand products and services needed to successfully compete with traditional and non-traditional competitors created by convergence within the financial services industry. Enhance the customer/member experience at multiple points of contact. Expand existing customer/member relationships and strengthen exit barriers by cross selling additional products and services. Capitalize on new revenue, and deposit and loan portfolio growth opportunities. Increase operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Protect mission-critical information assets and operational infrastructure. Protect accountholders with various security tools from fraud and related financial losses. Maximize the day-to-day use of technology and return on technology investments. Ensure full regulatory compliance. 6 Jack Henry s extensive product and service offerings help diverse financial institutions meet business challenges and capitalize on opportunities. We strive to get to know our clients, understand their strategies and challenges, and provide innovative solutions that help them achieve short- and long-term success. Business Strategy Our fundamental business strategy is to generate organic revenue and earnings growth augmented by strategic acquisitions. We execute this strategy by: Providing community and regional financial institutions with core processing systems that provide excellent functionality and support on-premise and private cloud delivery environments with identical functionality. Expanding each core client relationship by cross-selling complementary/payment products and services that enhance the functionality provided by our core processing systems. Delivering non-core highly specialized core-agnostic complementary/payment products and services to financial institutions, including institutions not utilizing one of our core processing systems, and diverse corporate entities. Developing and deploying a long-term technology modernization strategy to provide public cloud-native solutions that provide clients with greater flexibility, optionality, open integration, speed to market, and other benefits. Upholding a company-wide commitment to service that consistently exceeds our clients expectations and generates high levels of retention. Building, maintaining, and enhancing a protected environment and tools that help our clients and Jack Henry protect accountholder data, assets, and comply with regulations. Maintaining a disciplined acquisition strategy. Acquisition Strategy We have a disciplined approach to acquisitions and have been successful in supplementing our organic growth with 35 strategic acquisitions since the end of fiscal year 1999. We continue to explore acquisitions that have the potential to: Expand our suite of complementary/payment products and services. Provide products and services that can be sold to both existing core and non-core clients as well as outside our core base to new clients. Accelerate our internal development efforts for technology modernization. Provide selective opportunities to sell outside our traditional markets in the financial services industry. After 48 years in business, we have very few gaps in our product line, so it is increasingly difficult to find proven products or services that would enable our clients and prospects to better optimize their business opportunities or solve specific operational issues. In addition, we see few acquisition opportunities that would expand our market or enable our entry into adjacent markets within the financial services industry that are fairly priced or that we could assimilate into our Company without material distractions. We have a solid track record of executing acquisitions from both a financial and operational standpoint, and we will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities that support our strategic direction, complement and accelerate our organic growth, and generate long-term profitable growth for our stockholders. While we seek to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, we will continue to explore alternative ways to leverage our cash position and balance sheet to the benefit of our stockholders, such as continued investment in new products and services for our clients, repurchases of our stock, and continued payment of dividends. Our most recent acquisition was: Fiscal Year Company or Product Name Products and Services 2023 Payrailz, LLC ("Payrailz") Provider of cloud-native modern digital payment capabilities leveraging AI and machine learning features for the financial services industry. Solutions Our core banking solutions support commercial banks with information and transaction processing platforms that provide enterprise-wide automation. We have three functionally distinct core bank processing systems and more than 140 fully integrated complementary/payment solutions, including business intelligence and bank management, retail and business banking, digital and mobile internet banking and electronic payment solutions, fraud and risk management and protection, account origination, and item and document imaging solutions. Our 7 core banking solutions have state-of-the-art functional capabilities, and we can re-market the hardware required by on-premise use of each software system. Our banking solutions can be delivered on-premise or through our private cloud delivery model and are backed by a company-wide commitment to provide exceptional client support. Our core credit union solutions support credit unions of all sizes with an information and transaction processing platform that provides enterprise-wide automation. Our solution includes one flagship core processing system and more than 100 fully integrated complementary/payment solutions, including business intelligence and credit union management, member and member business services, digital and mobile internet banking and electronic payment solutions, fraud and risk management and protection, account origination, and item and document imaging solutions. Our credit union solution also has state-of-the-art functional capabilities. We also re-market the hardware required by on-premise use of the software system. Our credit union solution can be delivered on-premise, through our private cloud, or through our partner private cloud delivery models. Each is backed by our company-wide commitment to provide exceptional client support. Our non-core solutions for financial institutions and diverse corporate entities are specialized products and services assembled primarily through our focused diversification acquisition strategy. These core-agnostic solutions are compatible with a wide variety of information technology platforms and operating environments and offer more than 100 complementary/payment solutions, including proven solutions for generating additional revenue and growth, increasing security and mitigating operational risks, and/or controlling operating costs. Our non-core products and services enhance the performance of financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters, and diverse corporate entities. These distinct products and services can be implemented individually or as solution suites to address specific business problems or needs and enable effective responses to dynamic industry trends. We are committed to developing and maintaining modern and integrated solutions supported by high service levels. We continuously update and improve these solutions through an interactive client enhancement process, ensuring compliance with relevant regulations, and incorporating proven advances in technology. Our goal is to uphold our Company's reputation as a premium solution and service provider. Core Software Systems Core software systems primarily consist of the integrated applications required to process deposit, loan, and general ledger transactions, and to maintain centralized customer/member information. Our core banking solutions consist of three software systems marketed to banks, and our core credit union solution consists of one software system marketed to credit unions. These core systems are available for on-premise installation at client sites, or financial institutions can choose to leverage our private cloud environment for ongoing information processing. Core banking platforms are: SilverLake System , a robust system primarily designed for commercial-focused banks that currently serves banks with assets ranging from $1 billion to $50 billion. Some progressive smaller banks and de novo (start-up) banks also select SilverLake. This system is in use by approximately 490 banks, and now serves nearly 11% of the domestic banks with assets less than $50 billion. CIF 20/20 , a parameter-driven, easy-to-use system that now supports approximately 280 banks ranging from de novo institutions to those with assets of $5 billion. Core Director , a cost-efficient system with point-and-click operation that now supports over 170 banks ranging from de novo institutions to those with assets of over $2 billion. Core credit union platform is: Symitar (formerly known as Episys ), a robust system designed specifically for credit unions. It has been implemented by approximately 720 credit unions with assets ranging from $20 million to $30 billion, and according to National Credit Union Administration ("NCUA") data, is the system implemented by more credit unions with assets exceeding $25 million than any other core system. Clients electing to install our solutions on-premise license the proprietary software systems. The majority of these clients pay ongoing annual software maintenance fees. We re-market the hardware, hardware maintenance, and peripheral equipment that is required by on-premise use of our software solutions; and we perform software implementation, data conversion, training, ongoing support, and other related services. On-premise clients generally license our core software systems under a standard license agreement that provides a fully paid, nonexclusive, nontransferable right to use the software on a single computer at a single location. 8 Clients can eliminate the significant up-front capital expenditures required by on-premise installations and the responsibility for operating information and transaction processing infrastructures by leveraging our private cloud environment for those functions. Our core private cloud services are provided through a highly resilient data center configuration across multiple physical locations. We also provide image item processing services from two host/archive sites and several key entry and balancing locations throughout the country. We print and mail customer/member statements for financial institutions from three regional printing and rendering centers. Clients electing to outsource their core processing typically sign contracts for six years that include "per account" fees and minimum guaranteed payments during the contract period. We are dedicated to meeting the evolving business needs of our core bank and credit union clients by continuously enhancing each core system, introducing new integrated complementary products regularly, integrating practical new technologies, and adhering to regulatory compliance initiatives. Additionally, we serve as a single point of contact for each core client for support and accountability. Complementary Products and Services We have more than 140 complementary/payment products and services that are targeted to our core banks and more than 100 targeted to credit unions. Many of these are selectively sold to financial institutions that use other core processing systems. These complementary/payment solutions enable core bank and credit union clients to respond to evolving customer/member demands, expedite speed-to-market with competitive offerings, increase efficiency, address specific operational needs, and generate new revenue streams. The highly specialized solutions enable diverse financial institutions and corporate entities to generate additional revenue and growth opportunities, increase security, mitigate operational risks, and control operating costs. We regularly introduce new products and services based on demand for integrated complementary/payment solutions from our existing core clients and based on the growing demand among financial institutions and corporate entities for specialized solutions capable of increasing revenue and growth opportunities, mitigating and controlling operational risks, and/or containing costs. Our Industry Research department solicits client guidance on the business solutions they need, evaluates available solutions and competitive offerings, and manages the introduction of new product offerings. Our new complementary/payment products and services are developed internally, acquired, or provided through strategic alliances. Implementation and Training Most of our core bank and credit union clients contract with us for implementation and training services in connection with their systems and additional complementary products. A complete core system implementation typically includes detailed planning, project management, data conversion, and testing. Our experienced implementation teams travel to client facilities or work remotely with clients to help manage the implementation process and ensure that all data is transferred from the legacy system to the Jack Henry system. Our implementation fees are fixed or hourly based on the core system being installed. We also provide extensive initial and ongoing education to our clients. We have a comprehensive training program that supports new clients with basic training and longtime clients with continuing education. The training enables financial institutions to maximize the use of our core and complementary solutions, learn about ongoing system enhancements, and understand evolving legislative and regulatory requirements. Support and Services We serve our core clients as a single point of contact and support for the complex solutions we provide. Our comprehensive support infrastructure incorporates: High service standards. Trained support staff available up to 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Assigned account managers. Sophisticated support tools, resources, and technology. Broad experience converting diverse banks and credit unions to our core platforms from competitive platforms. Highly effective change management and control processes. Best practices methodology developed and refined through the company-wide, day-to-day experience. Most on-premise clients contract for annual software support services, and this represents a significant source of recurring revenue for Jack Henry. These support services are typically priced at approximately 20% of the respective product s software license fee. The subsequent years' service fees generally increase as client assets 9 increase and as additional complementary products are purchased. Annual software support fees typically are billed during June and are paid in advance for the entire fiscal year, with proration for new product implementations that occur during the fiscal year. Hardware support fees also are usually paid in advance for entire contract periods which typically range from one to five years. Most support contracts automatically renew unless the client or Jack Henry gives notice of termination at least 30 days prior to contract expiration. High levels of support are provided to our private cloud clients by the same support infrastructure utilized for on-premise clients. However, these support fees are included as part of monthly private cloud fees. Hardware Systems Our software systems operate on a variety of hardware platforms. We have established remarketing agreements with IBM Corporation, and many other hardware providers that allow Jack Henry to purchase hardware and related maintenance services at a discount and resell them directly to our clients. We currently sell IBM Power Systems ; Lenovo , Dell, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Cisco servers and workstations; Canon , Digital Check, Epson , and Panini check scanners; and other devices that complement our software solutions. Digital Products and Services Jack Henry Digital represents a category of digital products and services that are being built and integrated together into one unified platform. Our main offering is the Banno Digital Platform . It is an online and mobile banking platform that helps community and regional financial institutions strategically differentiate their digital offerings from those of megabanks and other financial technology companies. It is a complete, open digital banking platform that gives banks and credit unions attractive, fast, cloud-native applications for their customers and members and cloud-based, core-connected back-office tools for their employees. Payment Solutions Electronic payment solutions provide our clients with the tools necessary to be at the forefront of payment innovation with secure payment processing designed to simplify complex payment processing, attract profitable retail and commercial accounts, increase operating efficiencies, comply with regulatory mandates, and proactively mitigate and manage payment-related risk. JHA Card Processing Solutions ("CPS") supports full-service and in-house debit and credit card programs, as well as an Agent credit option, backed by a comprehensive suite of tools for 24/7 fraud mitigation, digital payments, full-service dispute management, plastics manufacturing and personalization, loyalty programs, data analytics, and ATM terminal driving. In addition, advisory services are offered to support a variety of needs including card portfolio growth, start-up program consultation, as well as customized fraud management; all tailored to individual financial institution goals and concerns. Enterprise Payment Solutions ("EPS") is a comprehe