ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 20 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 20 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 20 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 20 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 21 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 23 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 23 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 32 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 33 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 60 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 60 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 60 ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS 60 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 61 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 61 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 61 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 61 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 61 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 62 ITEM 16 FORM 10-K SUMMARY 64 3 In this report, all references to JKHY , the Company , we , us , and our , refer to Jack Henry Associates, Inc., and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months, or periods refer to the Company's fiscal years ended in June and the associated quarters, months, and periods of those fiscal years. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, seek, anticipate, estimate, future, intend, plan, strategy, predict, likely, should, will, would, could, can, may, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based only on management s current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of the Company, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in particular, those included in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this report, and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. Any forward-looking statement made in this report speaks only as of the date of this report, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Jack Henry Associates, Inc. ("JKHY") is a well-rounded financial technology company. JKHY was founded in 1976 as a provider of core information processing solutions for banks. Today, the Company s extensive array of products and services includes processing transactions, automating business processes, and managing information for over 7,800 financial institutions and diverse corporate entities. JKHY provides its products and services primarily to financial institutions: Core bank integrated data processing systems are provided to over 950 banks ranging from de novo to multi-billion-dollar institutions with assets of up to $50 billion. The number of banks we serve has decreased in the last year due to acquisitions and mergers within the banking industry, which are discussed further under the heading "Industry Background" in this Item 1. Our banking solutions support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments with three functionally distinct core processing platforms and more than 140 integrated complementary solutions. Core credit union data processing solutions are provided to credit unions of all sizes, with a growing client base of nearly 720 credit union customers. There is one flagship core processing platform and more than 100 integrated complementary solutions that support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments. Non-core highly specialized core-agnostic products and services are also provided to financial institutions. There are more than 100 complementary solutions that offer highly specialized financial performance, imaging and payments processing, information security and risk management, retail delivery, and online and mobile solutions. These products and services enhance the performance of traditional financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters, and non-traditional diverse corporate entities with over 7,800 customers, comprised of nearly 1,650 of our core customers included in our bank and credit union customers listed above, as well as over 6,150 other non-core customers. Our products and services provide our customers with solutions that can be tailored to support their unique growth, service, operational, and performance goals. Our well-rounded solutions also enable financial institutions to offer the high-demand products and services required by their customers to compete more successfully, and to capitalize on evolving trends shaping the financial services industry. We are committed to exceeding our customers service-related expectations. We measure and monitor customer satisfaction using annual surveys and randomly-generated online surveys initiated each day by routine support requests. We believe the results of this extensive survey process confirm that our service consistently exceeds our customers expectations and generates excellent customer retention rates. We also focus on establishing long-term customer relationships, continually expanding and strengthening those relationships with cross sales of additional products and services, earning new financial and non-financial clients, and ensuring our product offerings are highly competitive. The majority of our revenue is derived from support and services provided by our private cloud services for our hosted customers that are typically on a seven-year or greater contract, recurring electronic payment solutions that are also generally on a contract term of seven years or greater, and to our on-premise customers that are typically on a one-year contract. Less predictable software license fees, paid by customers implementing our software solutions on-premise, and hardware sales, including all non-software products that we re-market in order to support our software systems, complement our primary revenue sources. Information regarding the classification of our business into four separate segments is set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements (see Item 8). JKHY s progress and performance have been guided by the focused work ethic and fundamental ideals fostered by the Company s founders 46 years ago: Do the right thing Do whatever it takes Have fun We recognize that our associates and their collective contribution are ultimately responsible for JKHY s past, present, and future success. Recruiting and retaining high-quality employees is essential to our ongoing growth and financial performance, and we believe we have established an organizational culture that sustains high levels of employee engagement. For further discussion of our human capital considerations, see "Human Capital" below. COVID-19 Impact and Response Since its outbreak in early calendar 2020, COVID-19 has rapidly spread and continues to represent a public health concern. The health, safety, and well-being of our employees and customers is of paramount importance to us. In 5 March 2020, we established an internal task force composed of executive officers and other members of management to frequently assess updates to the COVID-19 situation and recommend Company actions. We offered remote working as a recommended option to employees whose job duties allowed them to work off-site, and we suspended all non-essential business travel. As of August 15, 2022, the majority of our employees were continuing to work remotely either full time or in a hybrid capacity. We have announced that our official return-to-office date is September 6, 2022, though employees have been permitted to voluntarily return to the office since May 2, 2022. Individual decisions on returning to the office will be manager-coordinated and based on conversations with specific teams and departments. A large number of our employees have requested to remain fully remote or participate in a hybrid approach where they would split their time between remote and in-person working. While our business travel is normalizing, we do not expect it to return to pre-pandemic levels and continue to encourage a cautious approach to business travel activities. Customers We work closely with our customers who are scheduled for on-site visits to ensure their needs are met while taking necessary safety precautions when our employees are required to be at a customer site. Delays of customer system installations due to COVID-19 have been limited, and we have developed processes to handle remote installations when available. We expect these processes to provide flexibility and value both during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. Even though a substantial portion of our workforce has worked remotely during the outbreak and business travel has been limited, we have not yet experienced significant disruption to our operations. We believe our technological capabilities are well positioned to allow our employees to work remotely without materially impacting our business. Financial impact Despite the changes and restrictions caused by COVID-19, the overall financial and operational impact on our business has been limited and our liquidity, balance sheet, and business trends remain strong. We experienced positive operating cash flows during fiscal 2022, and we do not expect that to change in the near term. However, we are unable to accurately predict the future impact of COVID-19 due to a number of uncertainties, including further government actions; the duration, severity and recurrence of the outbreak, including the onset of variants of the virus; the effectiveness of vaccines against new variants; the development and effectiveness of treatments; the effect on the economy generally; the potential impact to our customers, vendors, and employees; and how the potential impact might affect future customer services, processing and installation-related revenue, and processes and efficiencies within the Company directly or indirectly impacting financial results. We will continue to monitor COVID-19 and its possible impact on the Company and to take steps necessary to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers. For a further discussion of the uncertainties and risks associated with COVID-19, see Part II,