ITEM 1. BUSINESS 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 19 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 19 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 19 ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 19 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 20 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 22 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 22 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 34 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 35 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 69 ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 69 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 69 PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 70 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 70 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 70 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 70 ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 70 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 71 ITEM 16 FORM 10-K SUMMARY 73 3 In this report, all references to JHA , the Company , we , us , and our , refer to Jack Henry Associates, Inc., and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months, or periods refer to the Company's fiscal years ended in June and the associated quarters, months, and periods of those fiscal years. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, seek, anticipate, estimate, future, intend, plan, strategy, predict, likely, should, will, would, could, can, may, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based only on management s current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of the Company, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in particular, those included in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this report, and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Any forward-looking statement made in this report speaks only as of the date of this report, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Jack Henry Associates, Inc. ("JHA") was founded in 1976 as a provider of core information processing solutions for banks. Today, the Company s extensive array of products and services includes processing transactions, automating business processes, and managing information for nearly 8,700 financial institutions and diverse corporate entities. JHA provides its products and services through three primary business brands: Jack Henry Banking is a leading provider of integrated data processing systems to approximately 1,000 banks ranging from community banks to multi-billion-dollar institutions with assets of up to $50 billion. The number of banks we serve has decreased in the last year due to acquisitions and mergers within the banking industry, which are discussed further under the heading "Industry Background" in this Item 1. Our banking solutions support both in-house and outsourced operating environments with three functionally distinct core processing platforms and more than 140 integrated complementary solutions. Symitar is a leading provider of core data processing solutions for credit unions of all sizes, with nearly 840 credit union customers. Symitar markets two functionally distinct core processing platforms and more than 100 integrated complementary solutions that support both in-house and outsourced operating environments. ProfitStars is a leading provider of highly specialized core agnostic products and services to financial institutions that are primarily not core customers of the Company. ProfitStars' more than 100 integrated complementary solutions offer highly specialized financial performance, imaging and payments processing, information security and risk management, retail delivery, and online and mobile solutions. ProfitStars products and services enhance the performance of traditional financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters, and non-traditional diverse corporate entities with over 8,600 customers, including over 6,800 non-core customers. Our products and services provide our customers solutions that can be tailored to support their unique growth, service, operational, and performance goals. Our solutions also enable financial institutions to offer the high-demand products and services required by their customers to compete more successfully, and to capitalize on evolving trends shaping the financial services industry. We are committed to exceeding our customers service-related expectations. We measure and monitor customer satisfaction using formal annual surveys and online surveys initiated each day randomly by routine support requests. We believe the results of this extensive survey process confirm that our service consistently exceeds our customers expectations and generates excellent customer retention rates. We also focus on establishing long-term customer relationships, continually expanding and strengthening those relationships with cross sales of additional products and services, earning new traditional and nontraditional clients, and ensuring each product offering is highly competitive. The majority of our revenue is derived from support and services provided to our in-house customers that are typically on a one-year contract, outsourcing services for our hosted customers that are typically on a five-year or greater contract, and recurring electronic payment solutions that are also generally on a contract term of five years or greater. Less predictable software license fees, paid by customers implementing our software solutions in-house, and hardware sales, including all non-software products that we re-market in order to support our software systems, complement our primary revenue sources. Information regarding the classification of our business into four separate segments is set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements (see Item 8). JHA s progress and performance have been guided by the focused work ethic and fundamental ideals fostered by the Company s founders 44 years ago: Do the right thing, Do whatever it takes, and Have fun. We recognize that our associates and their collective contribution are ultimately responsible for JHA s past, present, and future success. Recruiting and retaining high-quality employees is essential to our ongoing growth and financial performance, and we have established a corporate culture that sustains high levels of employee satisfaction. COVID-19 Impact and Response In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) as a pandemic and the President of the United States declared the outbreak as a national emergency. As COVID-19 has 5 rapidly spread, federal, state and local governments have responded by imposing varying degrees of restrictions, including widespread stay-at-home orders, social distancing requirements, travel limitations, quarantines, and forced closures or limitations on operations of non-essential businesses. Such restrictions have resulted in significant economic disruptions and uncertainty. The health, safety, and well-being of our employees and customers is of paramount importance to us. In March 2020, we established an internal task force composed of executive officers and other members of management to frequently assess updates to the COVID-19 situation and recommend Company actions. We offered remote working as a recommended option to employees whose job duties allow them to work off-site. This recommended remote working option is currently extended until at least January 4, 2021, and our internal task force will continue to evaluate recommending further extensions. Based on guidance from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the Company was designated as essential critical infrastructure because of our support of the financial services industry. As of August 13, 2020, the majority of our employees were working remotely. Our internal task force considers federal, state and local guidance, as well as employee-specific and facility-specific factors, when recommending Company actions. At such time that our internal task force recommends that our remote employees begin to return to our facilities, we have prepared procedures to assist with a safe, gradual and deliberate approach, including a return-to-office training, enhanced sanitation procedures and face mask requirements, which are currently being utilized by our employees who are required to be on site to perform their required job functions. We have suspended all non-essential business travel until at least January 4, 2021, and our internal task force will continue to evaluate the need for further extensions. We have put additional safety precautions into place for travel that is essential. We have also updated the health benefits available to our employees by waiving out-of-pocket expenses related to testing and treatment of COVID-19. Despite the move to a principally remote workforce, we honored our 2020 summer internship program through virtual methods. Customers We are working closely with our customers who are scheduled for on-site visits to ensure their needs are met while taking necessary safety precautions when our employees are required to be at a customer site. Delays of customer system installations due to COVID-19 have been limited, and we have developed processes to handle remote installations when available. We expect these processes to provide flexibility and value both during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we have experienced delays related to continuing customer migrations to our new card processing platform. We are on track to meet the revised schedule to complete migrations of our core customers by September 30, 2020, and non-core customers by March 31, 2021, to the new platform. We continue to work with our customers to support them during this difficult time, and, to that end, have waived certain late fees in connection with our products and services. We have also enhanced our lending service offerings to support the Paycheck Protection Program that was introduced by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security ("CARES") Act, which was signed into law on March 27, 2020. Even though a substantial portion of our workforce has worked remotely during the outbreak and business travel has been curtailed, we have not yet experienced significant disruption to our operations. We believe our technological capabilities are well positioned to allow our employees to work remotely for the foreseeable future without materially impacting our business. Financial impact We saw a decrease of card processing transaction volumes late in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 and into the early portion of the fourth quarter due to COVID-19, which slowed the rate of growth of our processing revenue for those periods versus a year ago. In addition, installations have been delayed and the associated revenue pushed from the current period to future periods. These headwinds may also impact our processing and installation revenues moving into fiscal 2021. Although transaction levels have since returned to more normal levels, the recurrence of lower-than-normal card processing transaction rates is uncertain and will depend upon when requirements for business closures and other restrictions are normalized and how quickly economic recovery occurs. Despite the changes and restrictions caused by COVID-19, the overall financial and operational impact on our business has been limited and our liquidity, balance sheet, and business trends remain strong. We experienced positive operating cash flows during the fourth quarter, and we do not expect that to change in the near term. However, we are unable to accurately predict the future impact of COVID-19 due to a number of uncertainties, including further government actions, the duration, severity and recurrence of the outbreak, the speed of economic recovery and the potential impact to our customers, vendors, and employees, as well as how the potential impact might affect future customer services, processing revenue, and processes and efficiencies within the Company directly or indirectly impacting financial results. We will continue to monitor COVID-19 and its possible impact on the Company and to take steps necessary to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers. For a further discussion of the uncertainties and risks associated with COVID-19, see Part II,