Item 1. BUSINESS General Johnson Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 141,700 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. Johnson Johnson is a holding company, with operating companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the world. The Company s primary focus is products related to human health and well-being. Johnson Johnson was incorporated in the State of New Jersey in 1887. The Executive Committee of Johnson Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Company's three business segments: Consumer Health, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices. Within the strategic parameters provided by the Committee, senior management groups at U.S. and international operating companies are each responsible for their own strategic plans and the day-to-day operations of those companies. Each subsidiary within the business segments is, with limited exceptions, managed by residents of the country where located. Segments of Business The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer Health, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular descriptions of segments and operating results under: Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition of this Report; and Note 17 Segments of Business and Geographic Areas of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Consumer Health The Consumer Health segment includes a broad range of products focused on personal healthcare used in the Skin Health/Beauty, Over-the-Counter medicines, Baby Care, Oral Care, Women s Health and Wound Care markets. Major brands in Skin Health/Beauty include the AVEENO ; CLEAN CLEAR ; DR. CI:LABO ; NEUTROGENA and OGX product lines. Over-the-Counter (OTC) medicines include the broad family of TYLENOL acetaminophen products; SUDAFED cold, flu and allergy products; BENADRYL and ZYRTEC allergy products; MOTRIN IB ibuprofen products; NICORETTE smoking cessation products outside the U.S.; ZARBEE S products, inspired by nature, and the PEPCID line of acid reflux products. Baby Care includes the JOHNSON S and AVEENO Baby line of products. Oral Care includes the LISTERINE product line. Major brands in Women s Health outside of North America are STAYFREE and CAREFREE sanitary pads and o.b. tampon brands. Wound Care brands include the BAND-AID Brand Adhesive Bandages and NEOSPORIN First Aid product lines. These products are marketed to the general public and sold online (eCommerce) and to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world. In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to separate the Company s Consumer Health business, with the intention to create a new, publicly traded company. The Company is targeting completion of the planned separation in 18 to 24 months after initial announcement. Pharmaceutical The Pharmaceutical segment is focused on six therapeutic areas: Immunology (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and psoriasis), Infectious Diseases (e.g., HIV/AIDS and COVID-19), Neuroscience (e.g., mood disorders, neurodegenerative disorders and schizophrenia), Oncology (e.g., prostate cancer, hematologic malignancies, lung cancer and bladder cancer), Cardiovascular and Metabolism (e.g., thrombosis, diabetes and macular degeneration) and Pulmonary Hypertension (e.g., Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension). Medicines in this segment are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers, distributors, hospitals and healthcare professionals for prescription use. Key products in the Pharmaceutical segment include: REMICADE (infliximab), a treatment for a number of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases; SIMPONI (golimumab), a subcutaneous treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis, active ankylosing spondylitis and moderately active to severely active ulcerative colitis; SIMPONI ARIA (golimumab), an intravenous treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis and active ankylosing spondylitis and active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) in people 2 years of age and older; STELARA (ustekinumab), a treatment for adults and children with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, for adults with active psoriatic arthritis, for adults with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease and treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis; TREMFYA (guselkumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis; the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, authorized for use under Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for active immunization to prevent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in individuals 18 years of age and older; EDURANT (rilpivirine), PREZISTA (darunavir) and PREZCOBIX /REZOLSTA (darunavir/cobicistat), antiretroviral medicines for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) in combination with other antiretroviral products and SYMTUZA (darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide), a once-daily single tablet regimen for the treatment of HIV; CONCERTA (methylphenidate HCl) extended-release tablets CII, a treatment 1 for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; INVEGA SUSTENNA /XEPLION (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder in adults; INVEGA TRINZA /TREVICTA (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment of schizophrenia in patients after they have been adequately treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA for at least four months; RISPERDAL CONSTA (risperidone long-acting injection), for the treatment of schizophrenia and the maintenance treatment of Bipolar 1 Disorder in adults; ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate), a treatment for patients with prostate cancer; ERLEADA (apalutamide), a next-generation androgen receptor inhibitor for the treatment of patients with prostate cancer; IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib), a treatment for certain B-cell malignancies, or blood cancers and chronic graft versus host disease; DARZALEX (daratumumab), a treatment for multiple myeloma; DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj), a treatment for multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) Amyloidosis; PROCRIT /EPREX (epoetin alfa), a treatment for chemotherapy-induced anemia and patients with chronic kidney disease; XARELTO (rivaroxaban), an oral anticoagulant for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which may lead to pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, and for the treatment and reduction of risk of recurrence of DVT and PE to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD), for the treatment and secondary prevention of thromboembolism in pediatric patients, and for thromboprophylaxis in pediatric patients following the Fontan procedure; INVOKANA (canagliflozin), for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; INVOKAMET /VOKANAMET (canagliflozin/metformin HCl), a combination therapy of fixed doses of canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; and INVOKAMET XR (canagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride extended-release), a once-daily, fixed-dose combination therapy of canagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release, for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; OPSUMIT (macitentan) as monotherapy or in combination, indicated for the long-term treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); UPTRAVI (selexipag), the only approved oral and intravenous, selective IP receptor agonist targeting a prostacyclin pathway in PAH. Many of these medicines were developed in collaboration with strategic partners or are licensed from other companies and maintain active lifecycle development programs. Medical Devices The Medical Devices segment includes a broad range of products used in the Interventional Solutions, Orthopaedics, Surgery, and Vision fields. Medical Devices in Interventional Solutions include Electrophysiology products (Biosense Webster) to treat cardiovascular diseases, Neurovascular care (Cerenovus) that treats hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke; the Orthopaedics portfolio (DePuy Synthes) is comprised of products in support of Hips, Knees, Trauma, and Spine, Sports Other; the Surgery portfolios include advanced and general surgery offerings (Ethicon), solutions that focus on Breast Aesthetics (Mentor) and Ear, Nose and Throat (Acclarent) procedures; and Johnson Johnson Vision products such as ACUVUE Brand disposable contact lenses and ophthalmic products related to cataract and laser refractive surgery. These products are distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, and used predominantly in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care professionals and clinics. Beginning in the fiscal first quarter of 2022, the Medical Devices segment will be referred to as the MedTech segment. Geographic Areas Johnson Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 141,700 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the world with the primary focus on products related to human health and well-being. The products made and sold in the international business include many of those described above under Segments of Business Consumer Health, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices. However, the principal markets, products and methods of distribution in the international business vary with the country and the culture. The products sold in international business include those developed in the U.S. and by subsidiaries abroad. Investments and activities in some countries outside the U.S. are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S. activities because the investment and commercial climate may be influenced by financial instability in international economies, restrictive economic policies and political and legal system uncertainties. Raw Materials Raw materials essential to the Company's business are generally readily available from multiple sources. Where there are exceptions, the temporary unavailability of those raw materials would not likely have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the Company. Patents The Company's subsidiaries have made a practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and processes where possible. They own, or are licensed under, a significant number of patents in the U.S. and other countries relating to their products, product uses, formulations and manufacturing processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance to the Company in the operation of its businesses. The Company s subsidiaries face patent challenges from third parties, including challenges seeking to manufacture and market generic and biosimilar versions of the Company's key pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. Significant legal proceedings and 2 claims involving the Company's patent and other intellectual property are described in Note 19, Legal Proceedings Intellectual Property of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Sales of the Company s largest product, STELARA (ustekinumab), accounted for approximately 9.7% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal 2021. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company. Janssen Biotech, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson Johnson, owns patents specifically related to STELARA . The latest expiring United States composition of matter patent expires in 2023. The latest expiring European composition of matter patent expires in 2024. Sales of the Company s second largest product, collectively DARZALEX (daratumumab) and DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj), accounted for approximately 6.4% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal 2021. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company. Genmab A/S owns two patent families related to DARZALEX , and Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to those patent families. The two patent families both expire in the United States in 2029. The latest expiring licensed European patent expires in 2032. Janssen Biotech, Inc. owns a separate patent portfolio related to DARZALEX FASPRO . Trademarks The Company s subsidiaries have made a practice of selling their products under trademarks and of obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries where such products are marketed. The Company considers these trademarks in the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation of its businesses. Seasonality Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, spending has been heavier in the fourth quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects increased spending decisions, principally for advertising and research and development activity. Competition In all of their product lines, the Company's subsidiaries compete with companies both locally and globally. Competition exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, both internally and externally sourced, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The development of new and innovative products, as well as protecting the underlying intellectual property of the Company s product portfolio, is important to the Company's success in all areas of its business. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer demand for the Company s consumer products involve significant expenditures for advertising and promotion. Environment The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and international environmental protection measures. The Company believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company s compliance with these requirements is not expected to have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position. Regulation The Company s businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation and enforcement. The Company is subject to costly and complex U.S. and foreign laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition and business operations. In the U.S., the drug, device and cosmetic industries have long been subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the U.S. FDA) continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required for U.S. FDA approval of new drugs and devices and a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends are also evident in major markets outside of the U.S. The new medical device regulatory framework and the new privacy regulations in Europe and in other countries are examples of such increased regulation. The regulatory agencies under whose purview the Company operates have administrative powers that may subject it to actions such as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, the Company s subsidiaries may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. The U.S. FDA and regulatory agencies around the globe are also increasing their enforcement activities. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our drugs or medical 3 devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending applications for marketing authorization or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. Equivalent enforcement mechanisms exist in different countries in which we conduct business. The costs of human healthcare have been and continue to be a subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the U.S., attention has been focused by states, regulatory agencies and congress on drug prices and profits and programs that encourage doctors to write prescriptions for particular drugs, or to recommend, use or purchase particular medical devices. Laws and regulations have been enacted to require adherence to strict compliance standards and prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. There is increased focus on interactions and financial relationships between healthcare companies and healthcare providers. Various transparency laws and regulations require disclosures of payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals and, beginning with disclosures in 2022, to certain non-physician practitioners. Federal and foreign laws governing international business practices require strict compliance with anti-bribery standards and certain prohibitions with respect to payments to any foreign government official. Payers have become a more potent force in the market place and increased attention is being paid to drug and medical device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device utilization and the quality and costs of healthcare generally. U.S. government actors continue efforts to repeal, modify, or invalidate provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the ACA) which passed in 2010. For example, federal legislation repealed the ACA s individual mandate tax penalty as well as the tax on generous employer-sponsored healthcare plans; the Center for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS) began permitting states to impose work requirements on persons covered by Medicaid expansion plans; certain federal subsidies to insurers have ended; and certain short-term insurance plans not offering the full array of ACA benefits have been allowed to extend in duration. Some of these changes are being challenged in U.S. courts and so their long-term impact remains uncertain. The ACA has also been subject to judicial challenge. In November 2020, the U.S. Supreme Court heard argument in Texas v. Azar , which challenges the constitutionality of the ACA. Pending resolution of the litigation, all of the ACA but the individual mandate to buy health insurance remains in effect. The U.S. government also continues to propose and implement changes to the Medicare Part D benefit including the size of manufacturer discounts in the coverage gap and catastrophic phases of the benefit. There are a number of additional bills pending in Congress and healthcare reform proposals at the state level that would affect drug pricing in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This changing federal landscape has both positive and negative impacts on the U.S. healthcare industry with much remaining uncertain as to how various provisions of federal law, and potential modification or repeal of these laws, will ultimately affect the industry. In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the U.S., by government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. Further, the Company relies on global supply chains, and production and distribution processes, that are complex, are subject to increasing regulatory requirements, and may be faced with unexpected changes such as those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and Brexit that may affect sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company's products. These processes also are subject to complex and lengthy regulatory approvals. The global regulatory landscape is also subject to change as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect the U.S. and global economies. The U.S. FDA and other health authorities have shifted resources and priorities to meet the many challenges presented by the pandemic. Pandemic-related disruptions could negatively impact the processing of regulatory submissions and slow agency review times necessary for the approval or clearance of new drugs and devices. The duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic is unpredictable and difficult to assess. 4 Employees and Human Capital Management As of January 2, 2022 and January 3, 2021, the number of employees were approximately: 2021 2020 Employees 1 144,300 136,400 Full-time equivalent (FTE) positions 2 141,700 134,500 1 Employee is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. Employee data may not include full population from more recently acquired companies and individuals on long-term disability are excluded. Contingent workers, contractors and subcontractors are also excluded. 2 FTE represents the total number of full-time equivalent positions and does not reflect the total number of individual employees as some work part-time. Strategy The Company believes that its employees are critical to its continued success and are an essential element of its long-term strategy. Management is responsible for ensuring that its policies and processes reflect and reinforce the Company's desired corporate culture, including policies and processes related to strategy, risk management, and ethics and compliance. The Company s human capital management strategy is built on three fundamental focus areas: Attracting and recruiting the best talent Developing and retaining talent Empowering and inspiring talent Underpinning these focus areas are ongoing efforts to cultivate and foster a culture built on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI), innovation, health, well-being and safety, where the Company's employees are encouraged to succeed both professionally and personally while helping the Company achieve its business goals. Culture and Employee Engagement At Johnson Johnson, employees are guided by Our Credo which sets forth the Company's responsibilities to patients, consumers, customers, healthcare professionals, employees, communities and shareholders. Employees worldwide are further guided by the Company s Code of Business Conduct which sets basic requirements for business conduct and serves as a foundation for the Company policies, procedures and guidelines, all of which provide additional guidance on expected employee behaviors in every market where it operates. The Company conducts global surveys that offer its employees the ability to provide feedback and valuable insight to help address potential human resources risks and identify opportunities to improve. In 2021, 91% of global employees across 77 countries participated in Our Voice Survey which was offered in 36 languages. Growth and Development To continue to lead in the changing healthcare landscape, it is crucial that the Company continue to attract and retain top talent. The Company believes that its employees must be equipped with the right knowledge and skills and be provided with opportunities to grow and develop in their careers. Accordingly, professional development programs and educational resources 5 5 are available to all employees. The Company's objective is to foster a learning culture that helps shape each person s unique career path while creating a robust pipeline of talent to deliver on the Company s long-term strategies. In furtherance of this objective, the Company deploys a global approach to ensure development is for everyone, regardless of where they are on their career journey. In 2021, 45.8% of employees in Manager and above job categories took advantage of career opportunities by moving across functions, country or business segment lines (including upward promotion or lateral transfer and excluding employees in the research and development organizations). The Company's voluntary turnover rate was 8%. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) The Company is committed to workplace diversity and to cultivating, fostering, and advancing a culture of equity and inclusion. Enabling employees to perform at their best while being themselves is fundamental to the Company's continued success. The Company s DEI vision is: Be yourself, change the world . The Company's DEI strategy focuses on three pillars that reflect the strategic priorities identified to enable the Company to address the challenges and opportunities presented by this evolving understanding of diversity: Accelerate the Company s efforts to advance a culture of inclusion and innovation Build a diverse workforce for the future Enhance business results and reputation The Company's DEI strategy is guided by internal and external insights, global best practices and continual employee feedback which remind the Company that while diversity changes by location, inclusion is the same everywhere. Compensation and Benefits As part of the Company's total rewards philosophy, the Company offers competitive compensation and benefits to attract and retain top talent. The Company is committed to fairness and equitable treatment in its compensation and benefits for employees at all levels. The Company observes legal minimum wage provisions and exceeds them where possible. The Company's total rewards offerings include an array of programs to support its employees' financial, physical, and mental well-being, including annual performance incentive opportunities, pension and retirement savings programs, health and welfare benefits, paid time off, leave programs, flexible work schedules and employee assistance programs. Health, Wellness and Safety The Company s investment in employee health, well-being and safety is built on its conviction that advancing health for humanity starts with advancing the health of its employees. With the right awareness, focus, practices and tools, the Company ensures that all its employees around the world, as well as temporary contractors and visitors to the Company's sites, can work safely. The Company has continuously expanded health and well-being programs throughout the Company and across the globe, incorporating new thinking and technologies to keep its offerings best-in-class and to help employees achieve their personal health goals. The programs and practices the Company advances for total health physical, mental, emotional and financial help ensure employee health protection from emerging health risks. Safety and COVID-19 Pandemic Response Protecting and supporting our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic continues to be a top priority and our approach includes: keeping employees informed of local COVID-19 transmission rates and corresponding risk levels; promoting the health and safety of our employees in the workplace through robust layers of protection; enhanced cleaning and access to cleaning supplies and personal protective equipment; supporting employees with pay continuity, benefits and well-being tools; and recognizing extraordinary employee contributions at work and in our communities. In 2021, in recognition of the new way of working, we initiated J J Flex, a hybrid model that empowers our office-based employees to find the right productivity and balance of in-person and remote work. This model allows for work to happen seamlessly across a variety of workplaces and is enabled by an array of enhanced collaboration tools and technology to optimize productivity and connection. J J Flex rolled out in fourth quarter 2021 globally, and will continue deployment through 2022 as protocol and requirements related to the COVID-19 pandemic allow. The Company is evaluating flexible work strategies for its on-site workforce, such as virtual on-boarding and training, to help our employees balance their personal and professional lives. Also, we continued to enhance our benefits offerings with access to wellness tools, on-site vaccine clinics, mental health support resources and delivery of at-home testing kits. In addition, as COVID-19 vaccines were broadly distributed and administered in 2021, 