Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 10 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 24 Item 1C Cybersecurity 24 Item 2 Properties 25 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters , and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6 [Reserved] 27 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 50 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 51 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 108 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 108 Item 9B Other Information 108 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 108 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers , and Corporate Governance 109 Item 11 Executive Compensation 109 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 109 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 109 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 109 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 110 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 113 Signatures 114 KEURIG DR PEPPER INC. FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 MASTER GLOSSARY Term Definition 2009 Incentive Plan Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2009 (formerly known as the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan of 2009) 2019 Incentive Plan Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2019 2021 364-Day Credit Agreement The Company's $1,500 million credit agreement, which was entered into on March 26, 2021 and contains a term-out option 2022 Revolving Credit Agreement KDP s $4 billion revolving credit agreement, which was executed in February 2022 and replaced the 2021 364-Day Credit Agreement and the KDP Revolver 2022 Strategic Refinancing A series of transactions in April 2022, whereby KDP issued the 2029 Notes, the 2032 Notes, and the 2052 Notes, and voluntarily prepaid and retired the remaining 2023 Merger Notes and tendered portions of the 2025 Merger Notes, the 2028 Merger Notes, the 2038 Merger Notes, and the 2048 Merger Notes ABC The American Bottling Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of KDP ABI Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV Accelerator Accelerator Active Energy LLC, an equity method investment of KDP and a brand of energy drinks (formerly known as A Shoc) AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss ASU Accounting Standards Update Athletic Brewing Athletic Brewing Holding Company, LLC, an equity method investment of KDP Bedford Bedford Systems, LLC, an equity method investment of KDP and the maker of Drinkworks Board The Board of Directors of KDP BodyArmor BA Sports Nutrition, LLC bps basis points Central States The Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund CEO Chief Executive Officer Chobani FHU US Holdings LLC, an equity method investment of KDP CISO Chief Information Security Officer Coca-Cola The Coca-Cola Company CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker CSD Carbonated soft drink DIO Days inventory outstanding DPO Days of payables outstanding DPS Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. DPS Merger The combination of the business operations of Keurig and DPS as of July 9, 2018 DSD Direct Store Delivery, KDP s route-to-market whereby finished beverages are delivered directly to retailers DSO Days sales outstanding EPS Earnings per share ESG Environmental, social, and governance Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FX Foreign exchange IT Information technology IRA Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 IRS Internal Revenue Service JAB JAB Holding Company S.a.r.l., and affiliates JPMorgan JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. KDP Revolver The Company's $2,400 million revolving credit facility, which was entered into on February 28, 2018 i KEURIG DR PEPPER INC. FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 Term Definition Keurig Keurig Green Mountain, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of KDP, and the brand of our brewers La Colombe La Colombe Holdings, Inc. LRB Liquid refreshment beverages Nasdaq The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC Notes Collectively, the Company's senior unsecured notes Nutrabolt Woodbolt Holdings LLC, d/b/a Nutrabolt, an equity method investment of KDP PCI Standard Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PepsiCo PepsiCo, Inc. Peet's Peet's Coffee Tea, Inc. PET Polyethylene terephthalate, which is used to make the Company's plastic bottles PFAS Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances PRMB Post-retirement medical benefit Proxy Statement The definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of December 31, 2023, pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act PSU Performance stock unit Revive Revive Brands, a wholly-owned subsidiary of KDP rPET Post-consumer recycled PET RSU Restricted stock unit RTD Ready to drink RVG Residual value guarantee S P Standard Poor s SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SG A Selling, general and administrative SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate Tractor Tractor Beverages, Inc., an equity method investment of KDP U.S. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Veyron SPEs Special purpose entities with a single sponsor, Veyron Global VIE Variable interest entity Vita Coco The Vita Coco Company, Inc. Walmart Walmart Inc. WD Warehouse Direct, KDP s route-to-market whereby finished beverages are shipped to retailer warehouses, and then delivered by the retailer through its own delivery system to its stores WIP Work-in-process References throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "we", "our", "KDP" or "the Company" refer to Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. and all wholly-owned subsidiaries included in our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates, and projections about our business and operations. Our actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated and expressed in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the factors described under "Risk Factors" within Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and subsequent filings with the SEC. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR COMPANY Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. is a leading beverage company in North America that manufactures, markets, distributes and sells hot and cold beverages and single serve brewing systems. KDP has a broad portfolio of iconic beverage brands, including Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Snapple, Mott's, The Original Donut Shop, Clamato, and Core Hydration, as well as the Keurig brewing system. We have some of the most recognized beverage brands in North America, with significant consumer awareness levels and long histories that evoke strong emotional connections with consumers. We offer more than 125 owned, licensed, and partner brands, available nearly everywhere people shop and consume beverages through our sales and distribution network. KDP was created on July 9, 2018, through the combination of the business operations of Keurig, a leading producer of innovative single serve brewing systems and specialty coffee in the U.S. and Canada, and DPS, a company built over time through a series of strategic acquisitions that brought together iconic beverage brands in North America. Today, we trade on Nasdaq under the symbol KDP, and we are a member of the Nasdaq 100 Index. OUR STRENGTHS AND STRATEGY Our scalable business model provides a platform for future growth, focused on: Strong, balanced portfolio of leading, consumer-preferred brands with proven ability to expand via innovation, renovation and partnerships. We own a diverse portfolio of well-known beverage brands. Many of our brands enjoy high levels of consumer awareness, preference, and loyalty rooted in their rich heritage. This portfolio provides our customers with a wide variety of products to meet consumers' needs and provides us with a platform for growth and profitability. We drive growth in our business through investments in innovation, renovation, and marketing to support our portfolio of owned brands and partnerships with other leading beverage brands. We have a robust innovation program, which is designed to meet consumers' changing flavor and beverage preferences and to grow our share of beverage occasions. We have cultivated relationships with leading beverage brands to create long-term partnerships that enable us and our partners to benefit equitably in future value creation, and where appropriate, we bring these partner brands into our owned portfolio through acquisitions. We continually evaluate making investments in companies that fill in whitespace in our portfolio. Flexible and scalable route-to-market network, with unique e-commerce expertise. We have strategically-located distribution capabilities, which enable us to better align our operations with our customers and our sales channels, to ensure our products are available to meet consumer demand, to reduce transportation costs, and to have greater control over the timing and coordination of new product launches. We actively manage transportation of our products using our fleet (owned and leased) of approximately 6,900 vehicles in the U.S. and 2,000 in Mexico, as well as third party logistics providers. With our Keurig.com website, we have a leading direct-to-consumer e-commerce platform which provides us insights and expertise in the e-commerce channel. We have been able to translate those insights and experiences to our cold business as the number of fulfillment options that are better suited economically for beverages has evolved, leading to growth in the e-commerce channel. High-performing team driving better, faster decisions, enabled by technology. We believe that our team and the culture we have created are a competitive advantage. When we approach our customers, we do so as a modern beverage company, strengthened through our use of data and technology. Bold ESG commitments and collaborations making positive impacts. We have worked diligently to embed conscious and responsible business practices into the foundation of our company. Our holistic ESG strategy is positioned to drive tangible and scalable solutions in service of doing more and better for our people, our environment and our communities. Highly efficient business model, driving significant cash flow and investments. Our highly efficient business model, both from a cost and a cash perspective, gives us optionality to invest internally and pursue investments, partnerships, acquisitions, or other opportunities to continue to drive growth and create value. 1 Table of Contents OUR PRODUCTS AND OPERATING STRUCTURE We are a leading integrated brand owner, manufacturer, and distributor of beverages in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. We have a portfolio of brands with the ability to satisfy every consumer need, anytime and anywhere hot or cold, at home or on-the-go, at work, or at play. Operating and Reportable Segments As of December 31, 2023, our operating structure consists of three operating and reportable segments: U.S. Refreshment Beverages, U.S. Coffee, and International. Segment financial data, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 7 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. U.S. Refreshment Beverages Our U.S. Refreshment Beverages segment is a brand owner, manufacturer, and distributor of liquid refreshment beverages, or LRBs, in the U.S. In this segment, we manufacture and distribute beverage concentrates, syrups, and finished beverages of our brands to third-party bottlers, distributors, retailers, and, ultimately, the end consumer. We manufacture beverage concentrates and syrups, which we then sell throughout the U.S. to third party bottlers or use them in our own manufacturing systems. Beverage concentrates, which are highly concentrated proprietary flavors, are combined with carbonation, water, sweeteners, and other ingredients, packaged in aluminum cans, PET bottles, and glass bottles, and sold as a packaged beverage to retailers and, ultimately, the end consumer. Beverage concentrates are also manufactured into syrup, which is shipped to fountain customers, such as fast food restaurants, who mix the syrup with water and carbonation to create a finished beverage at the point of sale to consumers. Dr Pepper represents most of our fountain channel volume. We manufacture and distribute finished beverages of our own beverage brands. Additionally, in order to maximize the size and scale of our manufacturing and distribution operations, we also distribute finished beverages for our partner brands and manufacture finished beverages for other third parties, including partners and private labels. We partner with other brands seeking effective route-to-market capabilities, including national selling and distribution scale. These brands can also give us exposure in certain markets to fast growing segments of the beverage industry in a capital-efficient manner. We sell finished beverages through our DSD and our WD systems, both of which include sales to all major retail channels. Key brands in this segment include Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Mott s, Snapple, A W, 7UP, Sunkist soda, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Core Hydration, Bai, C4 Energy, Clamato, Evian, Yoo-Hoo, Big Red, and Vita Coco. U.S. Coffee Our U.S. Coffee segment is primarily a brand owner, manufacturer, and distributor of innovative single serve brewers, specialty coffee (including hot and iced varieties), and RTD coffee in the U.S. Our Keurig single serve brewers are aimed at changing the way consumers prepare and enjoy coffee and other beverages both at home and away from home in places such as offices, hotels, restaurants, cafeterias, and convenience stores. We create value by developing and selling our Keurig single serve brewers and by expanding Keurig brewer household adoption, which enables sales of specialty coffee and a variety of other specialty beverages in K-Cup pods (including hot and iced teas, hot cocoa, and other beverages) for use with Keurig brewers. We also compete in the broader coffee category through traditional whole bean and ground coffee in other package types, including bags, fractional packages, and cans, as well as RTD coffee beverages. We, together with our partners, are able to bring consumers high-quality coffee and other beverage experiences from the brands they love, all through the one-touch simplicity and convenience of Keurig brewers. We manufacture approximately 80% of the pods in the single serve format in the U.S. on a dollar share basis. 2 Table of Contents We manufacture and sell 100% of the K-Cup pods of certain brands, including Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, The Original Donut Shop, and McCaf , to retailers, away from home channel participants, and end-use consumers. We also manufacture K-Cup pods for our partner brands, who in turn sell them to retailers and consumers. Our partner brands include Starbucks, Dunkin', Folgers, Peet's, Newman s Own Organics, Caribou Coffee, and Community Coffee, among others. We also participate in private label manufacturing arrangements. Generally, we are able to sell these brands to our away from home channel participants and directly to consumers through our website at www.keurig.com. We also have agreements for manufacturing, distributing, and selling K-Cup pods for tea under brands such as Celestial Seasonings and Bigelow. We also produce and sell K-Cup pods for cocoa, including through a licensing agreement for the Swiss Miss brand, and hot apple cider, including under our own brand, Mott's. Our U.S. Coffee segment manufactures K-Cup pods using freshly roasted and ground coffee as well as tea, cocoa, and other products. We offer high-quality, responsibly sourced coffee, including certified single-origin, organic, flavored, limited edition, and proprietary blends. We carefully select our coffee beans and roast them to optimize their taste and flavor differences. We engineer and design most of our single serve brewers and utilize third-party contract manufacturers located in various countries in Asia for brewer appliance manufacturing. We distribute our brewers using third-party distributors, retail partners and directly to consumers through our website at www.keurig.com. International Our International segment includes: Sales in Canada, Mexico, and other international markets from the manufacture and distribution of branded concentrates, syrup, and finished beverages, including sales of the Company's own brands and third-party brands, to third-party bottlers, distributors, and retailers. Key beverage brands include Pe afiel, Clamato, Squirt, Canada Dry, Dr Pepper, Mott s, and Crush. Sales in Canada from the manufacture and distribution of finished goods relating to the Company's single serve brewers, K-Cup pods, and other coffee products to partners and retailers. Key K-Cup pod brands include Van Houtte, Tim Hortons, and McCaf , as well as other partner and private label brands. Product Innovation and New Partnerships We are focused on a robust innovation pipeline within our portfolio of products to build household penetration of our business. We regularly launch new brewers with new features and benefits, technological advances, sustainable attributes, and changes in aesthetics to provide a variety of options to suit individual consumer preferences. We also continuously innovate and renovate our portfolio of K-Cup pods and beverages to provide an expansive array of flavors. During 2023, we launched our Keurig K-Iced family of brewers, featuring an innovative brew over ice process that allows consumers to brew both hot and iced beverages with a single coffeemaker. In addition, we expanded our ICED K-Cup pod offerings to include a variety of options that can be brewed over ice and are compatible with all Keurig models. We launched a limited edition Start Me Up iced coffee kit in collaboration with The Rolling Stones, which featured a custom-designed K-Iced brewer and a customized coffee blend. We launched Dr Pepper Strawberries Cream and Dr Pepper Strawberries Cream Zero Sugar. We also expanded our Core Hydration enhanced water portfolio with Core Hydration+, a nutrient enhanced water with real fruit extracts and essences, in Vibrance (grapefruit), Immunity (lemon), and Calm (cucumber). In Mexico, we elevated our mineral water portfolio with Pe afiel Soft, which has no calories or sugar. Finally, we joined forces with Blue Bell Creameries to create Dr Pepper Float ice cream, which provides us a royalty from these sales. We entered into a new partnership with Philz Coffee to provide two unique coffee blends in K-Cup pod format. We invested in, and simultaneously entered into a long-term strategic partnership with, La Colombe, which enables us to sell and distribute La Colombe shelf-stable varieties of RTD coffee and to license, manufacture, and distribute La Colombe branded K-Cup pods, both of which began in the fourth quarter of 2023. We also entered into a long-term agreement with Grupo PiSA to sell, distribute and merchandise Electrolit, a premium hydration beverage, across the U.S, beginning in early 2024. 3 Table of Contents CUSTOMERS We primarily serve the following types of customers: Retailers Retailers include supermarkets, hypermarkets, mass merchandisers, club stores, e-commerce retailers, office superstores, vending machines, fountains, grocery and drug stores, convenience stores, and other small outlets. Retailers purchase finished beverages, K-Cup pods, appliances, and accessories directly from us. Our portfolio of strong brands, operational scale and experience in the beverage industry has enabled us to maintain strong relationships with major retailers throughout the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. Our largest retailer, Walmart, represented approximately 17% of our consolidated net sales in 2023. Net sales to Walmart are included in all reportable segments. Bottlers and Distributors In the U.S. and Canada, we generally grant manufacturing and distribution licenses for our carbonated soft drinks to bottlers for specific geographic areas that are exclusive and long-term, and they have historically been perpetual in many cases. These bottlers may be affiliated with Coca-Cola or with PepsiCo, or they may be independent. These agreements prohibit bottlers and distributors from selling the licensed products outside their exclusive territory and from selling any imitative products in that territory. Generally, we may terminate bottling and distribution agreements only for cause, change in control, or breach of agreements, and the bottler or distributor may terminate without cause upon giving certain specified notice and complying with other applicable conditions. These bottlers and distributor agreements may also contain provisions for fountain distribution rights, which are not exclusive for a territory, but generally do restrict bottlers from carrying imitative product in the territory. Certain other brands, such as Snapple, Bai, and Core, are licensed for distribution in various territories to bottlers and a number of smaller distributors such as beer wholesalers, wine and spirit distributors, independent distributors, and retail brokers. Partners We have differentiated ourselves and the Keurig brand through our ability to create and sustain partnerships with other leading coffee, tea, and beverage brand companies through multi-year licensing and manufacturing agreements that best suit each brand's interests and strengths. Typically, we manufacture K-Cup pods on behalf of our partners, who in turn sell them to retailers. Away from Home Channel Participants We distribute brewers, accessories, and K-Cup pods (owned, licensed, and partner brands) to away from home channel participants, which include office coffee distributors and hotel chains. End-use Consumers We have a robust e-commerce platform at www.keurig.com where end-use consumers can purchase brewers, accessories, K-Cup pods, and other coffee products, such as bagged traditional coffee and cold brew. COMPETITORS The beverage industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer preferences. Competition is generally based on brand recognition, taste, quality, price, availability, selection and convenience, as well as factors related to corporate responsibility and sustainability. We compete with multinational corporations with significant financial resources. In our bottling and manufacturing operations, we also compete with a number of smaller bottlers and distributors and a variety of smaller, regional, and private label manufacturers. Our primary competitors include Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Starbucks Corporation, The J.M. Smucker Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, and Nestl S.A. Although these companies offer competing brands in categories we participate in, many are also our partners or customers, as they purchase beverage concentrates or K-Cup pods directly from us. 4 Table of Contents MATERIAL RESOURCES Raw Materials The principal raw materials we use in our business, which we commonly refer to as ingredients and materials, represent approximately 55% of our cost of sales and include green coffee, water, aluminum cans and ends, PET bottles and caps, including both virgin and rPET, CO 2 , sweeteners, paper products, K-Cup pod packaging materials, fruit, glass bottles and enclosures, cocoa, teas, juices, and other ingredients. We also use post-consumer recycled materials in the manufacturing of our single serve brewers. The availability, quality, and costs of many of these materials have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, over time. Additionally, under many of our supply arrangements for these raw materials, the price we pay fluctuates along with certain changes in indirect commodity costs, such as aluminum in the case of cans and ends, natural gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the case of K-Cup pods, PET bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners, and pulp in the case of paperboard packaging. When appropriate, we mitigate the exposure to volatility in the prices of certain commodities used in our production process and transportation to our customers through the use of various commodity derivative contracts or supplier pricing agreements. The intent of the contracts and agreements is to provide a certain level of predictability in our operating margins and our overall cost structure, while remaining in what we believe to be a competitive cost position. Green Coffee We develop and pursue direct relationships with farms, estates, cooperatives, cooperative groups, and exporters in order to purchase green coffee and to support our broader traceability and sustainable supply chain initiatives. We also purchase green coffee through outside brokers. Energy and Transportation Costs In addition to ingredients and packaging costs, we are significantly impacted by changes in fuel costs, which can also fluctuate substantially, due to the large truck fleet we operate in our distribution operations (reflected within SG A expenses) and the energy costs consumed in the production process (reflected within cost of sales). We are also significantly impacted by changes in other transportation costs, such as ocean freight and tariffs. Transportation costs associated with the transportation and import of certain raw materials and finished goods to our manufacturing and distribution facilities are reflected within cost of sales. Intellectual Property Trademarks and Patents We possess a variety of intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets to safeguard our proprietary rights, including our brands, our technologies, and ingredient and production formulas for our products. We own numerous trademarks in our portfolio within the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and other countries. Depending upon the jurisdiction, trademarks are valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. In many countries outside the U.S., Canada and Mexico, the manufacturing and distribution rights to many of our CSD brands, including our Dr Pepper trademark and formula, are owned by third parties, including, in certain cases, competitors such as Coca-Cola. We hold U.S. and international patents related to Keurig brewers and K-Cup pod technology. Of these, a majority are utility patents and the remainder are design patents. We view these patents as valuable assets but we do not view any single patent as critical to our success. We also have pending patent applications associated with Keurig brewers and K-Cup pod technology. We take steps that we believe are appropriate to protect such innovation. 5 Table of Contents Licensing Arrangements We license various trade names from our partners in order to manufacture K-Cup pods. Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they generally are long-term, cover the entire U.S. and/or Canada, and may include royalty payments, upfront payments, or some combination of the two, to the partner in order to use their trade names to manufacture and/or distribute the K-Cup pods. We license various trademarks from third parties, which generally allow us to manufacture and distribute certain products or brands throughout the U.S. and/or Canada and Mexico. For example, we license trademarks for Sunkist soda, Rose's, and Margaritaville from third parties. Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they generally are long-term, cover the entire U.S. and/or Canada and Mexico and generally include a royalty payment to the licensor. For beverages in emerging and fast growing categories where we may not currently have a brand presence, we license various trademarks from third party partners, which generally allow us to sell and distribute certain products or brands throughout the U.S., Canada, or Mexico. These partners view us as a distributor with strong route-to-market resources to grow their brands. Although these licenses vary in length and other terms, they generally are long-term and require a payment from the partner if the licensing agreement is terminated. In some instances, we make investments in these companies, which may include a path to acquire the company. As of December 31, 2023, our portfolio of partner brands included, but was not limited to, C4 energy drinks, evian water, Vita Coco coconut water, Polar Beverages seltzer water, Accelerator energy drinks, La Colombe shelf-stable RTD coffee, and Peet's RTD coffee. SEASONALITY The beverage market is subject to some seasonal variations. Our cold beverage sales are generally higher during the warmer months, while hot beverage sales are generally higher during the cooler months. Overall beverage sales can also be influenced by the timing of holidays and weather fluctuations. Sales of brewers and related accessories are generally higher during the second half of the year due to the holiday shopping season. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Our Employees We have approximately 28,100 employees, primarily located in North America. In the U.S., we have approximately 21,700 employees, of which approximately 5,000 employees are covered by union collective bargaining agreements. In Mexico, we have approximately 4,800 employees, of which approximately 3,600 are covered by union collective bargaining agreements. In Canada, we have approximately 1,40