Item 1 Business 1 Item 1A Risk Factors 12 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 Item 2 Properties 23 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 23 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 23 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6 [Reserved] 24 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 48 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 104 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 104 Item 9B Other Information 104 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 104 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 105 Item 11 Executive Compensation 105 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 105 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 105 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 105 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 106 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 108 Signatures 109 KEURIG DR PEPPER INC. FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 MASTER GLOSSARY Term Definition 2009 Incentive Plan Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2009 (formerly known as the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan of 2009) 2019 Incentive Plan Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan of 2019 2019 KDP Term Loan KDP s $2 billion term loan, executed in February 2019 and terminated in March 2021 2020 364-Day Credit Agreement The Company's $1,500 million credit agreement, which was entered into on April 12, 2020 and replaced the 2019 364-Day Credit Agreement 2021 364-Day Credit Agreement The Company's $1,500 million credit agreement, which was entered into on March 26, 2021 and contains a term-out option 2022 Revolving Credit Agreement KDP s $4 billion revolving credit agreement, which was executed in February 2022 and replaced the 2021 364-Day Credit Agreement and the KDP Revolver A Shoc Adrenaline Shoc, an equity method investment of KDP and a brand of energy drinks ABC The American Bottling Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of KDP ABI Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss ASU Accounting Standards Update Bedford Bedford Systems, LLC, an equity method investment of KDP and the maker of Drinkworks Board The Board of Directors of KDP BodyArmor BA Sports Nutrition, LLC bps basis points Central States The Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund CERT Council for Education and Research on Toxins Coca-Cola The Coca-Cola Company Costco Costco Wholesale Corporation CSD Carbonated soft drink DIO Days inventory outstanding DPO Days of payables outstanding DPS Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. DPS Merger The combination of the business operations of Keurig and DPS that was consummated on July 9, 2018 through a reverse merger transaction, whereby a wholly-owned special purpose merger subsidiary of DPS merged with and into the direct parent of Keurig DSD Direct Store Delivery, the reporting unit whereby finished beverages are delivered directly to retailers DSO Days sales outstanding EPS Earnings per share ESG Environmental, social and governance Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board FFS Fountain Foodservice, an operating segment of KDP which serves the fountain channel, such as restaurants FX Foreign exchange IRi Information Resources, Inc. IRS Internal Revenue Service JAB JAB Holding Company S.a.r.l., and affiliates JPMorgan JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. KDP Credit Agreements Collectively, the KDP Revolver, the 364-day credit agreements, and the 2019 KDP Term Loan KDP Revolver The Company's $2,400 million revolving credit facility, which was entered into on February 28, 2018 Keurig Keurig Green Mountain, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of KDP, and the brand of our brewers LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LifeFuels LifeFuels, Inc., an equity method investment i KEURIG DR PEPPER INC. FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 Nasdaq The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC NCB Non-carbonated beverage Notes Collectively, the Company's senior unsecured notes NPD The NPD Group's Total Market Dataset NYSE New York Stock Exchange PCI Standard Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PepsiCo PepsiCo, Inc. Peet's Peet's Coffee Tea, Inc. PET Polyethylene terephthalate, which is used to make the Company's plastic bottles PRMB Post-retirement medical benefit Proposition 65 The State of California's Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 Proxy Statement The definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of December 31, 2021, pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act PSU Performance stock unit rPET Post-consumer recycled PET RSU Restricted stock unit RTD Ready to drink RVG Residual value guarantee S P Standard Poor s SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SG A Selling, general and administrative U.S. GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Veyron SPEs Special purpose entities with the same sponsor, Veyron Global VIE Variable interest entity Walmart Walmart Inc. WD Warehouse Direct, the reporting unit whereby finished beverages are shipped to retailer warehouses, and then delivered by the retailer through its own delivery system to its stores WIP Work-in-process References throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "we", "our", "KDP" or "the Company" refer to Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. and all wholly-owned subsidiaries included in our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections about our business and operations. Our actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated and expressed in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the factors described under "Risk Factors" within Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and subsequent filings with the SEC. ii Table of Contents Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR COMPANY Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. is a leading beverage company in North America, with a diverse portfolio of flavored (non-cola) CSDs, NCBs, including water (enhanced and flavored), ready-to-drink tea and coffee, juice, juice drinks, mixers and specialty coffee, and is a leading producer of innovative single serve brewing systems. With a wide range of hot and cold beverages that meet virtually any consumer need, KDP key brands include Keurig, Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Snapple, Bai, Mott's, Core, Green Mountain and The Original Donut Shop. KDP has some of the most recognized beverage brands in North America, with significant consumer awareness levels and long histories that evoke strong emotional connections with consumers. KDP offers more than 125 owned, licensed and partner brands, including the top ten best-selling coffee brands and Dr Pepper as a leading flavored CSD in the U.S. according to IRi, available nearly everywhere people shop and consume beverages. KDP was created through the combination of the business operations of Keurig, a leading producer of innovative single serve brewing systems and specialty coffee in the U.S. and Canada, and DPS, a company built over time through a series of strategic acquisitions that brought together iconic beverage brands in North America such as Dr Pepper, Snapple, 7UP, Canada Dry, Mott's, A W and the Pe afiel business in Mexico. The DPS Merger was consummated on July 9, 2018, at which time DPS changed its name to Keurig Dr Pepper Inc. and began trading on the NYSE under the symbol "KDP". Today, we trade on Nasdaq under the symbol KDP, and we are a member of the Nasdaq 100 Index. OUR STRENGTHS AND STRATEGY Our scalable business model provides a platform for future growth, focused on: Strong, balanced portfolio of leading, consumer-preferred brands with proven ability to expand via innovation, renovation and partnerships. We own a diverse portfolio of well-known CSD, coffee and NCB brands. Many of our brands enjoy high levels of consumer awareness, preference and loyalty rooted in their rich heritage. This portfolio provides our retailers, bottlers and distributors, and other customers with a wide variety of products to meet consumers' needs and provides us with a platform for growth and profitability. We drive growth in our business by a combination of innovating and renovating our portfolio of owned brands and partnerships with other leading beverage brands. We have a robust innovation program, which is designed to meet consumers' changing flavor and beverage preferences and to grow the number of households using our single serve brewers. We have cultivated relationships with leading beverage brands to create long-term partnerships that enable us and our partners to benefit equitably in future value creation, and where appropriate, we bring these partner brands into our owned portfolio through acquisitions. We continually evaluate making investments in companies that fill in whitespace in our portfolio. Flexible and scalable route-to-market network, with unique e-commerce expertise. We have strategically-located distribution capabilities, which enables us to better align our operations with our customers and our channels, ensure our products are available to meet consumer demand, reduce transportation costs and have greater control over the timing and coordination of new product launches. We actively manage transportation of our products using our fleet (owned and leased) of approximately 6,300 vehicles in the U.S. and 1,700 in Mexico, as well as third party logistics providers. With our Keurig.com website, we have a leading e-commerce platform which provides us insights and expertise in the e-commerce channel. We have been able to translate those insights and experience into our cold business as the number of fulfillment options that are better suited economically for beverages has evolved, leading to growth in the e-commerce channel. High-performing team driving better, faster decisions, enabled by technology. We believe that our team and the culture we have created, through the integration of two companies into one, are truly our competitive advantage. When we approach our customers, we do so as one fully combined modern beverage company. This go-to market system is strengthened through sophisticated data and technology. This includes the only point-of-sale consumption data available in the consumer packaged goods industry through our panel of connected brewers, predictive ordering powered by artificial intelligence for our frontline sales team within our DSD system, and best in class revenue growth management tools. Bold ESG commitments and collaborations making positive impacts. ESG is embedded in the way that we do business at KDP, ensuring that we make a positive impact in our environment and communities. Highly efficient business model, driving significant cash flow and investments. Our highly efficient business model, both from a cost and a cash perspective, gives us optionality to invest internally and look outside for acquisitions or other options to continue to drive growth and create value. 1 Table of Contents PRODUCTS AND DISTRIBUTION We are a leading integrated brand owner, manufacturer, and distributor of non-alcoholic beverages in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. We have a portfolio of brands with the ability to satisfy every consumer need, anytime and anywhere hot or cold, at home or on-the-go, at work or at play. The following presents highlights of our major owned and licensed brands as of December 31, 2021: Category Major Brands North America Market Position CSDs Dr Pepper #1 in its flavor category and #2 overall flavored CSD in the U.S. Canada Dry #1 ginger ale in the U.S. and Canada A W #1 root beer in the U.S. Squirt #1 grapefruit CSD in the U.S. and a leading grapefruit CSD in Mexico Pe afiel #1 carbonated mineral water in Mexico Sunkist soda #1 orange flavored CSD in the U.S. Schweppes #2 ginger ale in the U.S. and Canada 7UP #2 lemon-lime CSD in the U.S. Crush #3 orange flavored CSD in the U.S. NCBs Snapple #2 premium shelf stable ready-to-drink tea in the U.S. Hawaiian Punch A leading branded shelf-stable fruit punch in the U.S. Mott's #1 branded multi-serve apple juice and apple sauce in the U.S. Clamato A leading spicy tomato juice in the U.S., Canada and Mexico Bai #3 enhanced water in the U.S. Core A rapidly growing water brand in the U.S. Single Serve Coffee Green Mountain #2 K-cup pod brand in the U.S. The Original Donut Shop #5 K-cup pod brand in the U.S. McCaf #6 K-cup pod brand in the U.S. Van Houtte #2 K-cup pod brand in Canada Single Serve Brewers Keurig #1 single serve brewer in the U.S. and Canada All information regarding our brand market positions in the U.S. is based on retail market dollars in 2021. U.S. beverage information is from IRi; U.S. brewing system information is from NPD. In the CSD market in the U.S. and Canada, we participate primarily in the flavored segment of the CSD category. In addition to our major brands above, we also own regional and smaller niche brands, such as Big Red, Sun Drop and Vernors. In the CSD market, we distribute finished beverages and manufacture beverage concentrates and fountain syrups. Our beverage concentrates, which are highly concentrated proprietary flavors used to make syrup or finished beverages, are used by our own Packaged Beverages segment, as well as sold to third party bottling companies through our Beverage Concentrates segment. According to IRi, we had a 24.2% share of the U.S. CSD market in 2021 (measured by retail sales), an increase of 40 bps versus 2020. We also manufacture fountain syrup that we sell to the foodservice industry directly and indirectly through bottlers or through other third parties. In the NCB market segment in the U.S., we participate primarily in the premium water category, including enhanced and flavored water, ready-to-drink tea, juice, juice drinks, and mixer categories. In addition to our major brands above, we also sell regional and smaller niche brands, such as Nantucket Nectars. We manufacture most of our NCBs as ready-to-drink beverages and distribute them through our own distribution network and through third parties or direct to our customers' warehouses. In addition to NCB beverages, we also manufacture Mott's apple sauce as a finished product. In Mexico and the Caribbean, we participate primarily in the carbonated mineral water, flavored CSDs, bottled water and vegetable juice categories. In Mexico, we manufacture and sell our brands through both our own manufacturing and distribution operations as well as third party bottlers. In the Caribbean, we distribute our products solely through third party distributors and bottlers. We have also begun to distribute certain products in other international jurisdictions through various third party bottlers and distributors. 2 Table of Contents Our Keurig single serve brewers are aimed at changing the way consumers prepare and enjoy coffee and other beverages both at home and away from home in places such as offices, restaurants, cafeterias, convenience stores and hotels. We create value by developing and selling our Keurig single serve brewers and by expanding Keurig brewer household adoption, which increased approximately 9% for the year ended December 31, 2021 to nearly 36 million U.S. households, based on third party survey data and our own estimates. Expansion of Keurig system household adoption enables sales of specialty coffee and a variety of other specialty beverages in K-Cup pods (including hot and iced teas, hot cocoa and other beverages) for use with Keurig brewers. We also offer traditional whole bean and ground coffee in other package types, including bags, fractional packages and cans. We, together with our partners, are able to bring consumers high-quality coffee and other beverage experiences from the brands they love, all through the one-touch simplicity and convenience of Keurig brewers. We currently offer a portfolio of more than 125 owned, licensed, partner and private label brands, including the top ten best-selling coffee brands in the U.S. based on IRi. PRODUCT AND PACKAGE INNOVATION We are focused on a robust innovation pipeline within our portfolio of products to build household penetration of our business. We regularly launch new brewers with new features and benefits, technological advances, sustainable attributes, and changes in aesthetics to provide a variety of options to suit individual consumer preferences. We also continuously innovate and renovate our portfolio of K-cup pods, CSDs and NCBs to provide an expansive array of flavors. During 2021, we launched our Keurig Supreme Plus Smart brewer, which incorporates our new BrewID technology platform. BrewID creates value through consumer connectivity in our brewers by recognizing the specific K-cup pod brand and roast to automatically customize brew settings, tracking K-cup pod usage to enable automatic reordering, and recommending future purchases and trials based on consumer preferences. Additionally, the Keurig mobile app provides enhanced control over temperature, strength, and beverage size. We also designed and launched easy-peel K-Cup pod lids with a tab to make it simpler to recycle. Within our NCB portfolio, in 2021, we completed the transition of our Core brand and select packaging sizes of our Snapple and Aguafiel brands to bottles made with 100% rPET. We expanded our Bai portfolio to include Bai Boost, a line of beverages with plant-based energy providing 110 mg of caffeine, in three flavors: Buka Black Raspberry, Togo Tangerine Citrus, and Watamu Strawberry Watermelon. We also launched the Mott s Mighty collection in both the juice and applesauce categories. Mott s Mighty juices are made with vitamins A, C and E to help support a healthy immune system and 50% less sugar, and Mott s Mighty applesauces are made with no added sugars and added fiber to help support healthy digestive systems. In our CSD portfolio, we expanded our Zero Sugar collection to include 7UP, Sunkist and A W. OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2021, our operating structure consists of four reportable segments: Coffee Systems, Packaged Beverages, Beverage Concentrates, and Latin America Beverages. Segment financial data, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 9 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Coffee Systems Our Coffee Systems segment is primarily a producer of innovative single serve brewers and specialty coffee in the U.S. and Canada. Our Coffee Systems segment manufactures over 80% of the pods in the single-serve K-Cup pod format in the U.S., on a dollar share basis. We manufacture and sell 100% of the K-Cup pods of the following brands to retailers, away from home channel participants and end-use consumers: Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, The Original Donut Shop, McCaf , Laughing Man, REVV, and Van Houtte. We manufacture and sell K-Cup pods for the following brands to our partners, who in turn sell them to retailers: Starbucks, Dunkin', Folgers, Peet's, Newman s Own Organics, Caribou Coffee, Eight O Clock, Maxwell House, and Tim Hortons, as well as private label arrangements. Generally, we are able to sell these brands to our away from home channel participants and end-use consumers. We also have agreements for manufacturing, distributing, and selling K-Cup pods for tea under brands such as Celestial Seasonings, Lipton and Tazo in addition to K-Cup pods of our own brand, Snapple. We also produce and sell K-Cup pods for cocoa, including through a licensing agreement for the Swiss Miss brand, and hot apple cider, including under our own brand, Mott's. Our Coffee Systems segment manufactures its K-Cup pods in facilities in North America that include specialty designed proprietary high-speed packaging lines using freshly roasted and ground coffee as well as tea, cocoa and other products. We offer high-quality, responsibly sourced coffee including certified single-origin, organic, flavored, limited edition and proprietary blends. We carefully select our coffee beans and appropriately roast the coffees to optimize their taste and flavor differences. We engineer and design most of our single serve brewers, where we then utilize third-party contract manufacturers located in various countries in Asia for brewer appliance manufacturing. We distribute our brewers using third-party distributors, retail partners and through our website at www.keurig.com. 3 Table of Contents In 2021, Walmart and Costco were the Coffee Systems segment's largest customers. The loss of one of those customers could have a material adverse effect on the Coffee Systems segment. Beverage Concentrates Our Beverage Concentrates segment is principally a brand ownership business where we manufacture and sell beverage concentrates and syrups in the U.S. and Canada. Most of the brands in this segment are CSD brands. Key brands include Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Crush, Sunkist, A W, SunDrop, 7UP, Squirt, Big Red, Hawaiian Punch and RC Cola. Beverage concentrates are shipped to third party bottlers, as well as to our own manufacturing systems, who combine them with carbonation, water, sweeteners and other ingredients, package the combined product in aluminum cans, PET bottles, and glass bottles, and sell them as a packaged beverage to retailers and, ultimately, the end consumer. Beverage concentrates are also manufactured into syrup, which is shipped to fountain customers, such as fast food restaurants, who mix the syrup with water and carbonation to create a finished beverage at the point of sale to consumers. Dr Pepper represents most of our fountain channel volume. Our Beverage Concentrates brands are sold by our bottlers through all major retail channels. As our Beverage Concentrates business is reliant upon a small number of customers, the loss of any of our bottlers in this segment could have a material adverse effect on the segment. Packaged Beverages Our Packaged Beverages segment is a manufacturing and distribution business of both NCBs and CSDs, as well as a brand ownership business, focused primarily on NCB brands. In this segment, we primarily manufacture and distribute packaged beverages of our brands to retailers and, ultimately, the end consumer. Additionally, in order to maximize the size and scale of our manufacturing and distribution operations, we also distribute packaged beverages for our partner brands and manufacture packaged beverages for other third parties in the U.S. and Canada. The larger CSD brands in this segment include Dr Pepper, Canada Dry, A W, 7UP, Sunkist, Squirt, Big Red, RC Cola, and Vernors. The larger NCB brands in this segment include Snapple, Mott's, Bai, Hawaiian Punch, Clamato, Yoo-Hoo, Core, ReaLemon, evian, Vita Coco and Mr and Mrs T mixers. The majority of our Packaged Beverages net sales come from the manufacturing and distribution of our own brands and the contract manufacturing of certain private label and emerging brand beverages. We also recognize net sales in this segment from the distribution of our partner brands such as evian, Vita Coco, Polar Beverages seltzer water, A Shoc energy drinks, Peet's RTD coffee and Runa energy drinks. We provide a route-to-market for our partner brands seeking effective distribution for their new and emerging brands. These brands give us exposure in certain markets to fast growing segments of the beverage industry with minimal capital investment. We sell our Packaged Beverages products through our DSD and our WD systems, both of which include sales to all major retail channels. In 2021, Walmart was the Packaged Beverages segment's largest customer. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Packaged Beverages segment. Latin America Beverages Our Latin America Beverages segment is a brand ownership, manufacturing and distribution business, with operations in Mexico representing approximately 90% of the segment's net sales. This segment participates mainly in the carbonated mineral water, flavored CSD, bottled water and vegetable juice categories. The largest brands include Pe afiel, Clamato, Squirt, Mott's, Dr Pepper, Crush and Aguafiel. In 2021, Walmart was the Latin America Beverages segment's largest customer. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Latin America Beverages segment. OUR CUSTOMERS We primarily serve the following types of customers: Retailers Retailers include supermarkets, hypermarkets, mass merchandisers, club stores, e-commerce retailers, office superstores, vending machines, fountains, grocery and drug stores, convenience stores and other small outlets. Retailers purchase finished beverages, K-Cup pods, appliances and accessories directly from us. Our portfolio of strong brands, operational scale and experience in the beverage industry has enabled us to maintain strong relationships with major retailers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. In 2021, our largest retailer was Walmart, representing approximately 16% of our consolidated net sales. 4 Table of Contents Bottlers and Distributors In the U.S. and Canada, we generally grant perpetual, exclusive licenses for CSD brands and packages to bottlers for specific geographic areas. These bottlers may be affiliated with Coca-Cola, with PepsiCo, or may be independent. These agreements prohibit bottlers and distributors from selling the licensed products outside their exclusive territory and selling any imitative products in that territory. Generally, we may terminate bottling and distribution agreements only for cause, change in control or breach of agreements and the bottler or distributor may terminate without cause upon giving certain specified notice and complying with other applicable conditions. Fountain agreements for bottlers generally are not exclusive for a territory, but do restrict bottlers from carrying imitative product in the territory. Certain NCB brands, such as Snapple, Bai, Core, Yoo-Hoo, Mistic and Nantucket Nectars are licensed for distribution in various territories to bottlers and a number of smaller distributors such as beer wholesalers, wine and spirit distributors, independent distributors and retail brokers. Partners We have differentiated ourselves and the Keurig brand through our ability to create and sustain partnerships with other leading coffee, tea and beverage brand companies through multi-year licensing and manufacturing agreements that best suit each brand's interests and strengths. Typically, we manufacture pods on behalf of our partners, who in turn sell them to retailers. As of December 31, 2021, our partner brands included, but were not limited to, Starbucks, Kirkland Signature, Dunkin', Great Value, Peet's, Caribou Coffee, Eight O Clock, Folgers, Newman s Own Organics, McCaf , Maxwell House, Kroger, Krispy Kreme, Celestial Seasonings, Lipton, Tazo, Panera, and Tim Hortons. Away from Home Channel Participants We distribute brewers, accessories and K-Cup pods (owned, licensed, and partner brands) to away from home channel participants, which include restaurants, hotel chains, and office coffee distributors. End-use Consumers We have a robust e-commerce platform at www.keurig.com where end-use consumers can purchase brewers, accessories, K-Cup pods and other coffee products such as bagged traditional coffee and cold brew. OUR COMPETITORS The beverage industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve in response to changing consumer preferences. Competition is generally based on brand recognition, taste, quality, price, availability, selection and convenience, as well as factors related to corporate responsibility and sustainability. We compete with multinational corporations with significant financial resources. In our bottling and manufacturing operations, we also compete with a number of smaller bottlers and distributors and a variety of smaller, regional and private label manufacturers. The following represents a list of our major competitors: Competitor Categories Coca-Cola CSDs, NCBs, Coffee The J.M. Smucker Company Packaged Coffee The Kraft Heinz Company Packaged Coffee Nestl S.A. NCBs, Packaged Coffee, Single-serve brewers PepsiCo CSDs, NCBs, Coffee Although these companies offer competing brands in categories we participate in, they are also our partners and customers, as they purchase beverage concentrates or K-Cup pods directly from us. OUR MATERIAL RESOURCES Our Raw Materials The principal raw materials we use in our business, which we commonly refer to as ingredients and materials, approximate 59% of our cost of sales and include green coffee, PET bottles and caps, including both virgin and rPET, aluminum cans and ends, sweeteners, paper products, K-Cup pod packaging materials, fruit, glass bottles and enclosures, juices, teas, water, and other ingredients. We also use post-consumer recycled materials in the manufacturing of our single serve brewers. The availability, quality and costs of many of these materials have fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, over time. 5 Table of Contents When appropriate, we mitigate the exposure to volatility in the prices of certain commodities used in our production process and transportation to our customers through the use of various commodity derivative contracts or supplier pricing agreemen