ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the State of Ohio, is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. We are a BHC under the BHCA and one of the nation s largest bank-based financial services companies, with consolidated total assets of approximately $186.3 billion at December 31, 2021. KeyCorp is the parent holding company for KeyBank National Association, its principal subsidiary, through which most of our banking services are provided. Through KeyBank and certain other subsidiaries, we provide a wide range of retail and commercial banking, commercial leasing, investment management, consumer finance, student loan refinancing, commercial mortgage servicing and special servicing, and investment banking products and services to individual, corporate, and institutional clients through two major business segments: Consumer Bank and Commercial Bank. As of December 31, 2021, these services were provided across the country through KeyBank s 999 full-service retail banking branches and a network of 1,317 ATMs in 15 states, as well as additional offices, online and mobile banking capabilities, including our national digital bank, Laurel Road, and a telephone banking call center. Additional information pertaining to our two business segments is included in the Business Segment Results section in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report, and in Note 25 ( Business Segment Reporting ) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements presented in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making loans, our bank and its trust company subsidiary offer personal and institutional trust custody services, personal financial and planning services, access to mutual funds, treasury services, and international banking services. Through our bank, trust company, and registered investment adviser subsidiaries, we provide investment management services to clients that include large corporate and public retirement plans, foundations and endowments, high-net-worth individuals, and multi-employer trust funds established for providing pension or other benefits to employees. We provide other financial services both within and outside of our primary banking markets through various nonbank subsidiaries. These services include community development financing, securities underwriting, investment banking and capital markets products, and brokerage. We also provide merchant services to businesses. KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banks and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its security holders, and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its banks and other subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the creditors of such banks and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that KeyCorp s claims in its capacity as a creditor may be recognized. We derive the majority of our revenues within the United States from customers domiciled in the United States. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries was immaterial to our consolidated financial statements. Demographics Our management structure and basis of presentation is divided into two business segments, Consumer Bank and Commercial Bank. Note 25 ( Business Segment Reporting ) describes the products and services offered by each of these business segments and provides more detailed financial information pertaining to the segments, including changes in basis of presentation. The Consumer Bank serves individuals and small businesses throughout our 15-state branch footprint and through our Laurel Road digital lending business by offering a variety of deposit and investment products, personal finance and financial wellness services, lending, student loan refinancing, mortgage and home equity, credit card, treasury services, and business advisory services. In addition, wealth management and investment services are offered to assist non-profit and high-net-worth clients with their banking, trust, portfolio management, charitable giving, and related needs. During the third quarter of 2021, Key executed on the sale of our indirect auto loan portfolio coupled with the purchase of senior notes from a securitization collateralized by the sold loans. The indirect auto portfolio totaled $3.3 billion at the time of sale. 6 Table of contents The Commercial Bank is an aggregation of our Institutional and Commercial operating segments. The Commercial operating segment is a full-service corporate bank focused principally on serving the needs of middle market clients in seven industry sectors: consumer, energy, healthcare, industrial, public sector, real estate, and technology. The Commercial operating segment is also a significant servicer of commercial mortgage loans and a significant special servicer of CMBS. The Institutional operating segment delivers a broad suite of banking and capital markets products to its clients, including syndicated finance, debt and equity capital markets, commercial payments, equipment finance, commercial mortgage banking, derivatives, foreign exchange, financial advisory, and public finance. Additional Information Our executive offices are located at 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306, and our telephone number is (216) 689-3000. Our website is www.key.com, and the investor relations section of our website may be reached through www.key.com/ir. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of our website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website, and available in print upon request from any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are the charters for our Technology Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation and Organization Committee, Executive Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Committee; our Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our directors, officers, and employees; our Standards for Determining Independence of Directors; our policy for Review of Transactions Between KeyCorp and Its Directors, Executive Officers and Other Related Persons; our Statement of Political Activity; and our Corporate Responsibility Report. Within the time period required by the SEC and the NYSE, we will post on our website any amendment to the Code of Ethics and any waiver applicable to any senior executive officer or director. We also make available a summary of filings made with the SEC of statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities filed by our directors and officers under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Regulatory Disclosures Filings section under the Financials tab of the investor relations section of our website includes public disclosures concerning our historic annual and mid-year stress-testing activities under the Dodd-Frank Act and our quarterly regulatory capital disclosures under the third pillar of Basel III. Information contained on or accessible through, including any reports available on, our website or any other website referenced in this report is not part of this report. References to websites in this report are intended to be inactive textual references only. Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the above-referenced corporate governance documents by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Investor Relations, KeyCorp, 127 Public Square, Mailcode OH-01-27-0737, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306; by calling (216) 689-4221; or by sending an e-mail to investor_relations@keybank.com. Competition The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive. Key competes with other providers of financial services, such as BHCs, commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers, and other local, regional, national, and global institutions that offer financial services. Some of our competitors are larger and may have more financial resources, while some of our competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. The financial services industry has become more competitive as technology advances have lowered barriers to entry, enabling more companies, including nonbank companies, to provide financial services. Technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial institutions. Mergers and acquisitions have also led to increased concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive pressure on Key s core banking products and services as we see competitors enter some of our markets or offer similar products. We compete by offering quality products and innovative services at competitive prices, and by maintaining our product and service offerings to keep pace with customer preferences and industry standards. 7 Table of contents Human Capital Engaging a diverse and talented team is a top strategic priority for Key. Our human capital management strategy is focused on recruiting, developing, and retaining top talent in order to deliver strong returns to our shareholders. Two of the important ways we deliver on this strategy are to (i) reward and recognize our employees based on performance while discouraging imprudent risk-taking, and (ii) cultivate a fair and inclusive culture. As part of our focus on balancing risk and reward, we carefully design our compensation programs to align with the guidance of our regulators and regularly monitor the programs to remain within our risk tolerances. All incentives paid to our employees are subject to a robust risk adjustment process that begins before grant and extends beyond payment. In addition, we are committed to pay equity as a foundational element of our culture. As of June 2021, at KeyBank women earn on average more than 99% of what their male teammates earn, and people of color earn on average more than 99% of what their white teammates earn, after taking into account an employee s job. Our analysis is based on total compensation (base salary and all discretionary incentives) covering all teammates eligible for a discretionary incentive, other than our Executive Leadership Team whose pay is set by our Board of Directors. More information about our commitment to pay equity is available at www.key.com/about/diversity/pay-equity-commitment.jsp. As of December 31, 2021, our overall workforce was 58% female, 78% White, 8% Black/African American, 6% Hispanic/Latino, 6% Asian and 2% other. Our Board of Directors is 46% diverse (six of our 13 total Directors are diverse, with four women, one of whom is also a minority, and two male minorities) and our Executive Leadership Team is 29% diverse (three women and one minority out of 14 total executives). Key had an average of 16,974 full time equivalent employees in 2021 . As of December 31, 2021, a total of 17,654 employees worked in the following regions: Region Employee Count East 13,126 West 2,980 All Other 1,548 Key supports our teammates by providing a comprehensive and competitive total rewards program, representing our investment in our teammates collective success and reflecting our commitment to helping them thrive. In addition to compensation programs, Key s offerings include employee health and welfare plans, a 401(k) plan with Key-paid profit sharing and matching contributions, paid parental leave, a Discounted Stock Purchase Plan, wellness incentives and a fitness reimbursement. 8 Table of contents Key s purpose is to help our clients, colleagues, and communities thrive. We remain committed to attracting a talented and diverse workforce and supplier base that represents the clients and communities we serve. In 2021, we continued to focus on increasing minority representation in management and leadership roles, expanding our overall recruiting focus, developing diverse candidate slates and pipelines, increasing supplier diversity, and leveraging our existing employee resource groups to strengthen both engagement and inclusion. Information About Our Executive Officers KeyCorp s executive officers are principally responsible for making policy for KeyCorp, subject to the supervision and direction of the Board. All executive officers are subject to annual election at the annual organizational meeting of the Board held each May. Set forth below are the names and ages of the executive officers of KeyCorp as of December 31, 2021, the positions held by each at KeyCorp during the past five years, and the year each first became an executive officer of KeyCorp. Because Mark Midkiff and James Waters have been employed at KeyCorp for less than five years, information is being provided concerning their prior business experience. There are no family relationships among the directors or the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was selected. Victor B. Alexander (42) - Mr. Alexander has been KeyCorp s Head of Consumer Bank and an executive officer of KeyCorp since January 2020. Prior to that time, he served as the Head of Home Lending from October 2018 to January 2020, Treasurer from July 2017 to October 2018, and Merger Integration Executive from December 2015 to June 2017. Amy G. Brady (55) - Ms. Brady is KeyCorp s Chief Information Officer, serving in that role since May 2012. Ms. Brady has been an executive officer of KeyCorp since she joined in 2012. She has been a director of DuPont de Nemours, Inc., a multi-industry specialty solutions company, since 2019. Trina M. Evans (57) - Ms. Evans has been the Director of Corporate Center for KeyCorp since August 2012. Prior to this role, Ms. Evans was the Chief Administrative Officer for Key Community Bank and the Director of Client Experience for KeyBank. She became an executive officer of KeyCorp in March 2013. Brian L. Fishel (56) - Mr. Fishel became the Chief Human Resources Officer and an executive officer of KeyCorp in May 2018. From 2013 to 2018, he served as the Director of Talent Management for KeyCorp. Kenneth C. Gavrity (45) - Mr. Gavrity has been Head of Enterprise Payments since January 2019 and became an executive officer of KeyCorp in May 2021. Prior to this, Mr. Gavrity served as Head of Commercial Payments from 2016 to 2019. Christopher M. Gorman (61) - Mr. Gorman has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President of KeyCorp since May 1, 2020. Mr. Gorman previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer from September 2019 to May 2020 and President of Banking and Vice Chairman from 2017 to September 2019. From 2016 to 2017, he served as Merger Integration Executive responsible for leading the integration efforts related to KeyCorp s merger with First Niagara. Prior to that, Mr. Gorman was the President of Key Corporate Bank from 2010 to 2016. He became an executive officer of KeyCorp in 2010. Clark H.I. Khayat (50) - Mr. Khayat rejoined KeyCorp as Chief Strategy Officer in January 2018. Mr. Khayat previously served as an Executive Vice President and Head of Key s Enterprise Commercial Payments group from April 2014 to June 2016. He became an executive officer of KeyCorp in September 2018. Donald R. Kimble (61) - Mr. Kimble has been the Chief Financial Officer of KeyCorp since June 2013. In 2017, Mr. Kimble was also named Vice Chairman. In January 2020, Mr. Kimble was also appointed Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Kimble became an executive officer upon joining KeyCorp in June 2013. Angela G. Mago (56) - Ms. Mago is the Head of Commercial Bank. She previously served as Co-Head of Key Corporate Bank from 2016 to May 2019. She also serves as Head of Real Estate Capital for Key, a role she has held since 2014. She became an executive officer of KeyCorp in 2016. 9 Table of contents Mark W. Midkiff (59) - Mr. Midkiff became Chief Risk Officer and an executive officer of KeyCorp in January 2018. Prior to joining KeyCorp, Mr. Midkiff served as the Deputy Chief Credit Officer of BB T, a banking and financial services firm, from May 2017 to December 2017. He served as Chief Risk Officer of GE Capital, the financial services division of General Electric, from May 2015 to January 2017. Andrew J. Paine III (52) - Mr. Paine is the Head of Institutional Bank. He previously served as Co-Head of Key Corporate Bank from 2016 to May 2019. He also serves as President of KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., a role he has held since 2013. He became an executive officer of KeyCorp in 2016. Kevin T. Ryan (60) - Mr. Ryan has been the Chief Risk Review Officer and General Auditor of KeyCorp since 2007. He became an executive officer of KeyCorp in 2016. Douglas M. Schosser (51) - Mr. Schosser has been the Chief Accounting Officer and an executive officer of KeyCorp since May 2015. Jaime Warder (48) - Mr. Warder has been Head of Digital Banking since January 2019 and became an executive officer of KeyCorp in May 2021. Prior to this, Mr. Warder served as Head of Business Banking and Investment Services from 2017 to 2019. James L. Waters (55) - Mr. Waters became the General Counsel and Secretary and an executive officer of KeyCorp in July 2021. From 2018 to 2021, he served as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Cullen/Frost Bankers, Inc., a financial holding company. Prior to 2018, he was a partner of the law firm Haynes and Boone, LLP. Supervision and Regulation The regulatory framework applicable to BHCs and banks is intended primarily to protect consumers, the DIF, taxpayers and the banking system as a whole, rather than to protect the security holders and creditors of financial services companies. Comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory environment for financial services companies occurred in 2010 and remains ongoing. We cannot predict changes in applicable laws, regulations or regulatory agency policies, but any such changes may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or access to liquidity or credit. Overview Federal law establishes a system of regulation under which the Federal Reserve is the umbrella regulator for BHCs, while their subsidiaries are principally regulated by prudential or functional regulators: (i) the OCC for national banks and federal savings associations; (ii) the FDIC for state non-member banks and savings associations; (iii) the Federal Reserve for state member banks; (iv) the CFPB for consumer financial products or services; (v) the SEC and FINRA for securities broker/dealer activities; (vi) the SEC, CFTC, and NFA for swaps and other derivatives; and (vii) state insurance regulators for insurance activities. Certain specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities, may be conducted in a bank without the bank being deemed a broker or a dealer in securities for purposes of securities functional regulation. Under the BHCA, BHCs generally may not directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any bank, without prior approval from the Federal Reserve. In addition, BHCs are generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or industrial activities. However, a BHC that satisfies certain requirements regarding management, capital adequacy, and Community Reinvestment Act performance may elect to be treated as a Financial Holding Company ( FHC ) for purposes of federal law, and as a result may engage in a substantially broader scope of activities that are considered to be financial in nature or complementary to those activities. KeyCorp has elected to be treated as a FHC and, as such, is authorized to engage in securities underwriting and dealing, insurance agency and underwriting, and merchant banking activities. In addition, the Federal Reserve has permitted FHCs, like KeyCorp, to engage in the following activities, under the view that such activities are complementary to a financial activity: physical commodities trading activities, energy management services, and energy tolling, among others. Under federal law, a BHC also must serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institution(s) by providing financial assistance in the event of financial distress. This support may be required when the BHC does not have the resources to, or would prefer not to, provide it. Certain loans by a BHC to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, 10 Table of contents federal law provides that in the bankruptcy of a BHC, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. The Dodd-Frank Act created the FSOC to overlay the U.S. supervisory framework for BHCs, insured depository institutions, and other financial service providers, by serving as a systemic risk oversight body. Specifically, the FSOC is authorized to: (i) identify risks to U.S. financial stability that could arise from the material financial distress or failure, or ongoing activities, of large, interconnected SIFIs, or that could arise outside the financial services marketplace; (ii) promote market discipline by eliminating expectations that the U.S. government will shield shareholders, creditors, and counterparties from losses in the event of failure; and (iii) respond to emerging threats to the stability of the U.S. financial system. The FSOC is responsible for facilitating regulatory coordination; information collection and sharing; designating nonbank financial companies for consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve; designating systemic financial market utilities and systemic payment, clearing, and settlement activities requiring prescribed risk management standards and heightened federal regulatory oversight; recommending stricter standards for SIFIs; and, together with the Federal Reserve, determining whether action should be taken to break up firms that pose a grave threat to U.S. financial stability. As a FHC, KeyCorp is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve under the BHCA. Our national bank subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC. At December 31, 2021, we operated one full-service, FDIC-insured national bank subsidiary, KeyBank, and one national bank subsidiary that is limited to fiduciary activities. The FDIC also has certain, more limited regulatory, supervisory, and examination authority over KeyBank and KeyCorp under the FDIA and the Dodd-Frank Act. We have other financial services subsidiaries that are subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as other state and federal regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Because KeyBank engages in derivative transactions, in 2013 it provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC and became a member of the NFA, the self-regulatory organization for participants in the U.S. derivatives industry. Our securities brokerage and asset management subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the SEC, FINRA, and state securities regulators, and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which they operate. Our other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations of both the federal government and the various states in which they are authorized to do business. Regulatory capital requirements Background KeyCorp and KeyBank are subject to regulatory capital requirements that are based largely on the work of an international group of supervisors known as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ( Basel Committee ). The Basel Committee is responsible for establishing international bank supervisory standards for implementation in member jurisdictions, to enhance and align bank regulation on a global scale, and to promote financial stability. The regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee and implemented in the United States is a predominately risk-based capital framework that establishes minimum capital requirements based on the amount of regulatory capital a banking organization maintains relative to the amount of its total assets, adjusted to reflect credit risk ( risk-weighted assets ). Each banking organization subject to this regulatory capital framework is required to satisfy certain minimum risk-based capital measures (e.g., a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio requirement of tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets), and in the United States, a minimum leverage ratio requirement of tier 1 capital to average total on-balance sheet assets, which serves as a backstop to the risk-based measures. A capital instrument is assigned to one of two tiers based on the relative strength and ability of that instrument to absorb credit losses on a going concern basis. Capital instruments with relatively robust loss-absorption capacity are assigned to tier 1, while other capital instruments with relatively less loss-absorption capacity are assigned to tier 2. A banking organization s total capital equals the sum of its tier 1 and tier 2 capital. The Basel Committee also developed a market risk capital framework (that also has been implemented in the United States) to address the substantial exposure to market risk faced by banking organizations with significant trading activity and augment the credit risk-based capital requirements described above. For example, the minimum total risk-based capital ratio requirement for a banking organization subject to the market risk capital rule equals the ratio of the banking organization s total capital to the sum of its credit risk-weighted assets and market risk-weighted assets. Only KeyCorp is subject to the market risk capital rule, as KeyBank does not engage in substantial trading activity. 11 Table of contents Basel III To address deficiencies in the international regulatory capital standards identified during the 2007-2009 global financial crisis, in 2010 the Basel Committee released comprehensive revisions to the international regulatory capital framework, commonly referred to as Basel III. The Basel III revisions are designed to strengthen the quality and quantity of regulatory capital, in part through the introduction of a Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement; provide more comprehensive and robust risk coverage, particularly for securitization exposures, equities, and off-balance sheet positions; and address pro-cyclicality concerns through the implementation of capital buffers. The Basel Committee also released a series of revisions to the market risk capital framework to address deficiencies identified during its initial implementation (e.g., arbitrage opportunities between the credit risk-based and market risk capital rules) and in connection with the global financial crisis. In July 2013, the U.S. banking agencies adopted a final rule to implement Basel III with an effective date of January 1, 2015, and a multi-year transition period ( Regulatory Capital Rules ). As of April 1, 2020, the Regulatory Capital Rules are fully phased-in for Key. Consistent with the international framework, the Regulatory Capital Rules further restrict the type of instruments that may be recognized in tier 1 and tier 2 capital (including the phase out of trust preferred securities from tier 1 capital for BHCs above a certain asset threshold, like KeyCorp); establish a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio requirement of 4.5% and capital buffers to absorb losses during periods of financial stress while allowing an institution to provide credit intermediation as it would during a normal economic environment; and refine several of the methodologies used for determining risk-weighted assets. The Regulatory Capital Rules provide additional requirements for large banking organizations with over $250 billion in total consolidated assets or $10 billion in foreign exposure, but those additional requirements do not apply to KeyCorp or KeyBank. Accordingly, for purposes of the Regulatory Capital Rules, KeyCorp and KeyBank are treated as standardized approach banking organizations. Under the Regulatory Capital Rules, standardized approach banking organizations, such as KeyCorp and KeyBank, are required to meet the minimum capital and leverage ratios set forth in the following table. At December 31, 2021, KeyCorp s ratios under the fully phased-in Regulatory Capital Rules are set forth in the following table. Minimum Capital Ratios and KeyCorp Ratios Under Regulatory Capital Rules Ratios (including stress capital buffer) Regulatory Minimum Requirement Stress Capital Buffer (b) Regulatory Minimum With Stress Capital Buffer KeyCorp December 31, 2021 (c) Common Equity Tier 1 4.50 % 2.50 % 7.00 % 9.48 % Tier 1 Capital 6.00 2.50 8.50 10.77 Total Capital 8.00 2.50 10.50 12.49 Leverage (a) 4.00 N/A 4.00 8.47 (a) As a standardized approach banking organization, KeyCorp is not subject to the 3% supplemental leverage ratio requirement, which became effective January 1, 2018. (b) Stress Capital buffer must consist of Common Equity Tier 1 capital. As a standardized approach bank