Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30 Item 2 Properties 30 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 30 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 31 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 31 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 49 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 50 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 99 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 99 Item 9B Other Information 99 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 99 Item 11 Executive Compensation 100 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 100 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 100 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 101 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 101 2 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence of political or economic instability, increased trade tension and tightening of export control regulations, impact of pandemic conditions such as the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19"), the impact of volatile weather caused by environmental conditions such as climate change, and our estimated or anticipated future results of operations, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part 1Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("we," "us," "Keysight" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a technology company that helps enterprises, service providers and governments accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world by providing electronic design and test solutions that are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacture, installation, optimization and secure operation of electronics systems in the communications, networking and electronics industries. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle, including start-up assistance, asset management, up-time services, application services and instrument calibration and repair. We generated $4.2 billion, $4.3 billion and $3.9 billion of revenue in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment as of and for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are provided in Note 21, "Segment Information," to our consolidated financial statements. We had more than 17,000 direct customers for our solutions and services in fiscal year 2020 and approximately 30,000 customers including indirect channels. No single customer represented 10 percent or more of our revenue. Strategies With a focus on electronic design, test and optimization, we deliver market-leading solutions across a wide range of industries, including commercial communications; networking; aerospace, defense and government; automotive; energy; semiconductor; general electronics; and education. Our software and hardware solutions support our customers' design and test challenges across the entire product lifecycle. We provide simulation, prototype development and validation solutions for research and development ("R D"), high-volume manufacturing test solutions, as well as handheld and other solutions for operational test and optimization including user experience in the field. Our objective is to increase the productivity of our customers and reduce their time to market. Keysight's solutions utilize a common portfolio of market-leading software and hardware technologies along with a suite of valued-added services. This broad portfolio of solutions enables our customers to efficiently develop and deploy their products to address the most rapidly evolving new technologies and market opportunities. The following strategies are significant: Expanding our software-centric solutions to meet customer needs and increase recurring revenue PathWave software solutions. PathWave software is designed to provide customers with design and test solutions that accelerates the overall workflow from simulation of early concepts through manufacturing and optimization of deployed systems. PathWave is expected to integrate Keysight s expanding portfolio of software solutions, including design software, measurement applications and instrument control. It provides an open and flexible development environment with common data formats and a consistent user interface in an open, scalable and predictive platform. The platform is in the early stages of a multi-year development timeline and is designed to be the foundation for many Keysight solutions going forward. Eggplant software test automation. The Eggplant software test automation platform uses artificial intelligence ("AI") and analytics to automate test creation and test execution and to create an innovative force in the automated test market with next generation software testing technology. Our acquisition of Eggplant in fiscal 2020 extends our core test capabilities in physical layer, communications, and network protocol design and test with intelligent automated test 3 Table of Contents capabilities to enable integrated performance and user experience testing of our customers' solutions across multiple industry verticals. The acquisition brings together two complementary companies to enable bi-directional leverage of measurement technologies and increased solution differentiation in the expanded offering. Subscription-based business models. Significant portions of Keysight s broad software portfolio are sold to customers on a one-time basis, granting the customer a license to use the software in perpetuity. We are in the process of adding subscription-based purchasing alternatives to more of our software, in some cases phasing out perpetual access and in some cases of new product offerings, never offering perpetual terms, in order to provide customers with regular updates and predictable expense outlays, while increasing our stream of recurring revenues. Services components of our solutions such as KeysightCare are also increasingly provided on a subscription basis as part of this strategy. Providing complete solutions with services The breadth of our service offerings enables Keysight to provide customers with complete solutions that incorporate both leading product capabilities and the appropriate services and support. We have expanded and deepened our service offerings beyond a strong foundation of calibration and repair to include customization, consulting and optimization services. Support offerings such as KeysightCare, asset optimization, technology refresh and other value-added services enable us to provide complete customer solutions across a broad set of communications and electronics markets, technologies and industries. Investing early to achieve first-to-market solutions Wireless communication measurement solutions. We are investing in the development of new wireless communications test solutions to satisfy the commercial communications end market, which is being driven by growth in mobile data, Internet of Things ("IoT") and evolving wireless standards, including 5G. The acquisition of Anite in fiscal 2015 strengthened our wireless software design and test portfolio and expanded our served addressable market. With our technical breadth and expertise and strategic engagement with market-leading customers and partners around the world, we have leading-edge solutions for 5G applications available and have been first to market with many 5G solutions. With the acquisition of Prisma Telecom Testing ("Prisma") in fiscal 2019, we enhanced our ability to deliver total solutions to the designers of cellular base stations. Automotive design and measurement solutions. We are investing in the development of new automotive test solutions to address the rapidly emerging electric, hybrid electric, connected and autonomous vehicle segments. In recent years, we have introduced new solutions covering vehicle intelligence, connectivity, power and security. The Automotive Cybersecurity Program validates the resiliency of connected components of a vehicle individually or as an entirely functioning automobile. In addition, security solutions developed by Ixia, acquired in 2017, enables Keysight to deliver extensive security validations of the 4G/5G radio access network (RAN) infrastructure that connects vehicles with the back-end data centers. With the acquisition of ScienLab in fiscal 2017, we significantly enhanced our ability to deliver application-optimized, customer-specific test solutions for the development and production of charging technology and infrastructure, energy storage, battery management systems, inverters and DC/DC converters. Network test solutions. The rapidly growing number of high-speed, connected devices requires service providers and data center operators to continuously update their networks to deliver higher levels of data transfer performance, improve quality of service and enhance network security. The acquisition of Ixia established Keysight as a market leader in next-generation network test and network visibility solutions. Quantum computing. Quantum Science is a field of physics and engineering research that harnesses the unique characteristics of quantum mechanics to provide breakthrough, revolutionary advances in the areas of computing, communications and sensing. These three areas represent an emerging growth opportunity for Keysight. We are investing in the development of advanced real time control systems to establish and sustain the quantum state of qubits , the building blocks of quantum computing systems. We made investments in fiscal 2020 to expand our software offerings related to quantum computing. Developing solutions for network transformation Network transformation requires new solutions. Market drivers are leading to a transformation of both wireless and wired network technologies. In particular, the low-latency and high bandwidth requirements of 5G are transforming the entire network. Our organic investments and acquisitions are helping us enable the next generation of networks and beyond. We provide both wireless and wired network communications design and test solutions that address all seven layers of the communications stack. In addition, these solutions address customer needs across the entire communications ecosystem, from chipsets to devices to network access and then into the core network, data centers and the cloud. 4 Table of Contents Strengths Our electronic measurement business originated in 1939. Our legacy encompasses more than 80 years of innovation, measurement science expertise and deep customer relationships. We conduct business annually with approximately 30,000 customers around the world, including most Fortune 1000 companies that are developing new electronic technologies, networks, systems, devices and components. The following strengths are significant: Industry-focused organization structure to support customer success. In 2016, Keysight transformed the company structure from product-focused divisions to industry-focused solution organizations, enabling closer customer alignment. This allows us to partner closely with market leaders to enable new technologies and provide first-to-market solutions for emerging applications. Our solution-centric industry groups provide end-to-end design, test and optimization solutions driven by customer specifications and timetables. Keysight is viewed as a trusted adviser and partner across industries. Technology leadership as a competitive differentiator. Proprietary software and hardware technologies unavailable in the commercial market and developed by our R D technology centers around the world enable many Keysight products to deliver the best design and measurement solution capability available for our customers engineering requirements. Some of Keysight s hardware technologies are designed and manufactured in our own in-house integrated circuit fabrication facilities, which were purpose-built and optimized to deliver leading-edge performance and capabilities across the broad portfolio of Keysight instruments. This differentiation enables Keysight to be recognized as a leader in six core measurement platforms: radio-frequency ("RF") and microwave design simulation software, network test, network analyzers, oscilloscopes, signal analyzers and signal sources. Keysight s technology leadership supports our strategy to deliver first-to-market solutions for our customers, which in turn enables them to be first to market with their products and gain a competitive advantage. Broad portfolio of solutions and products to address customer needs. Keysight has a broad portfolio of electronic design and test solutions and products, which we continue to expand. Our hardware product portfolio spans many technologies and price points. Products are available in various physical form factors, such as benchtop instruments, handheld units, custom or industry-standard modular formats, and others. We address time and frequency domain applications with RF, microwave, high-speed digital and general instrumentation. We also address network test, visibility and security applications. In addition, we have a broad portfolio of software solutions and products to enable our customers' success, including electronic design automation ("EDA") software for RF and high-speed digital design, software tools for programming, automation, and data analysis, and a broad range of application-specific software for our instruments. Our PathWave software platform incorporates some of these software elements. Finally, we offer an expanding set of services and support delivered under our KeysightCare offering. Our broad portfolio of solutions and products includes, among others, the following: 5 Table of Contents Industry-leading commitment to product quality and reliability. Keysight has a reputation in the industry for high-quality and high-reliability electronic measurement instrumentation and software. Ensuring quality and reliability is an integral part of our new product development processes. Sales channel with global reach. We have a comprehensive sales channel with experienced management teams and highly technical sales and application engineers in all parts of the world, including a strong local presence in emerging markets. As part of our sales channel strategy, we have more than doubled our direct sales force over the past five years, primarily driven by investments and acquisitions. This global direct channel is focused on selling high performance products and industry solutions to global and geographic accounts. Approximately 75 percent of our business comes from customer interactions with our direct sales organization. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and channel partners. To ensure broad geographic coverage and further drive growth, we maintain a network of over 700 channel partners and an e-commerce channel to complement our direct sales force. Large installed base. The breadth of our solutions portfolio and our long history of producing high-performance and high-quality solutions have resulted in our large worldwide installed base of equipment. This installed base enables a strong and growing services solutions portfolio, which provides a wide range of calibration and repair services, on both a per-incident and contract basis, and provides additional sales opportunities as loyal customers refresh or upgrade their equipment. Centralized order fulfillment. Our order fulfillment organization allows us to leverage the scale and scope of our business to provide high-quality, market-leading instrument solutions to our customers while generating competitive gross margins. Keysight has a central order fulfillment organization that supplies solutions to customers across geographies. Our Penang, Malaysia site is our largest manufacturing facility, with a proven track record of operational excellence, technology capability and quality. We have an established network of suppliers and subcontractors, especially in Asia, that complements our in-house capabilities. Flexible business model. Our operating model incorporates a substantial amount of cost structure flexibility with the intent to be materially profitable across a range of economic and market conditions. Our variable compensation programs, sales channel strategy and the outsourced components of our supply chain have been implemented to improve the flexibility of our cost structure. The Keysight Leadership Model The Keysight Leadership Model ( KLM ) is the company's framework to continuously deliver value to our customers, stockholders and employees and provides the structure to execute Keysight's strategy. This model encompasses seven interlinked areas of focus that are centered around our customers and include: Customer Success, Market Insight, Capital Allocation, First-to-Market Solutions, Operational Excellence, Employee Growth and Keysight Values. Customer Success is the heart of everything we do, embodying our relentless drive to deeply understand our customers challenges and help them achieve positive, sustained outcomes through the application of new insights and the use of Keysight solutions. 6 Table of Contents Market Insight is enabled by our deep customer relationships and focuses our product and solution roadmaps, informs our mergers and acquisitions priorities, and factors into our hiring priorities and talent development plans. Our market insight allows us to move with speed and focus delivering first-to-market solutions that enable customers to address their engineering challenges. Capital Allocation is how we direct our financial and human capital to business opportunities, projects and processes that align with our strategy to generate financial returns, which create value for the company, shareholders and employees. The threshold for our capital allocation is an expected return on invested capital that is above our cost to procure that capital. First-to-Market Solutions is what we strive to deliver to our customers across the industries we serve. By being first-to-market with the right solutions, we enable our customers to also be first-to-market with their products. Operational Excellence across all functions is a relentless focus. It allows us to accelerate R D by developing common technology platforms, maximize margins through cost reductions and supply optimization, implement LEAN+ processes for continuous improvement, and leverage general and administrative spend as the company grows. We believe this focus drives long-term competitive advantage and growth while building customer loyalty. Employee Growth is enabled in a dynamic work environment where employees are encouraged to be innovative and act with speed. This environment supports employees throughout their careers with the goal of connecting their passions to business results. Keysight Values of Speed and Courage, Uncompromising Integrity, High Performance, Social Responsibility and One Keysight foster a dynamic and inspiring environment conducive to collaboration, innovation and experimentation. Our values help us attract and retain top talent and guide how we work with each other and engage with our customers, suppliers and communities. More information on the KLM can be found at https://about.keysight.com/en/companyinfo/leadership.shtml . Operating Segments We completed an organizational change in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 to manage our former Ixia Solutions Group within our Communications Solutions Group to enable us to create improved go-to market and product development alignment as well as accelerate solution synergies as new technologies emerge. As a result of this organizational change, we now have two reportable operating segments, the Communications Solutions Group and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group. Prior period segment results have been revised to conform to the current presentation. Communications Solutions Group The Communications Solutions Group serves customers spanning the worldwide commercial communications and aerospace, defense and government end markets. The group's solutions consist of electronic design and test software, electronic measurement instruments, systems and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation and optimization of electronic equipment and networks. This business generated revenue of $3,132 million in fiscal 2020, $3,177 million in fiscal 2019 and $2,843 million in fiscal 2018. Communications Solutions Group Markets Our Communications Solutions Group serves the following two markets: Commercial Communications Market We market our electronic design and test solutions to chipset providers, network equipment manufacturers ( NEMs ), wireless device providers and component providers within the supply chain for these customers as well as network operators, including communications service providers and enterprises. Growth in mobile data traffic and increasing complexity in semiconductors and components are driving test demand across the communications ecosystem. We provide end-to-end solutions for mobile chipsets, connected smart sensors/devices (i.e., IoT), wireless base stations, networks, data centers and cloud. Our leading-edge solutions enable and accelerate new technology waves, including 5G wireless, Wi-Fi 6, 400G+ telecom and optical test and PCIe Gen5 high speed digital. Our ability to design and deliver first-to-market solutions is enabled by our technical expertise as well as our strategic engagements with market-leading customers across the commercial communications ecosystem. NEMs and chipset providers design and manufacture products to enable the transmission of voice, data and video traffic. The NEMs customers are communications service providers and enterprises that deploy and operate the networks and deliver services, 7 Table of Contents as well as distribute end user subscriber devices such as wireless smart phones, tablets and other connected devices. To meet their customers demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each optical, electrical and wireless network technology. Wireless device providers require design and test solutions for the design, development, manufacture and repair of a variety of mobile and connected devices, including both smart phones and tablets. These mobile devices are used for voice, data and video delivery to individuals who connect wirelessly to the service provider s network. The device manufacturers customers are large and small service providers, enterprises and consumers who purchase directly from retailers. Component providers design, develop and manufacture electronic and optical components and modules used in network equipment and mobile devices. The component providers require test and measurement products to verify that the components and modules interoperate properly and that their performance meets the specifications of their customers. Communications service providers and enterprises require reliable data center and network equipment that enables new service offerings and allows their networks to operate with ever increasing capacities. To achieve this, enterprises and communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to ensure conformance to communication standards and network requirements and to evaluate and optimize network performance. These customers also require solutions to improve management of data centers to preserve resources, save valuable IT time and maximize return on IT investments. Aerospace, Defense and Government Market We market our electronic design and test solutions to manufacturers and research laboratories within the aerospace and defense industries. This market includes commercial and government customers and their contracted suppliers. Electromagnetic spectrum operations, digital transformation and modernization of satellites, radars and surveillance systems worldwide are the drivers of test demand within the aerospace and defense market. Government customers include departments or ministries of defense and related agencies around the world. Prime contractors, sub-contractors and component manufacturers support the government customers by providing design and manufacturing capabilities for a variety of programs. Commercial customers include aerospace and satellite equipment manufacturers and related component suppliers. Customers use our electronic design and test solutions to develop and manufacture a wide variety of electronic components and systems used in aerospace and defense industries, including electromagnetic spectrum operations, radar, signal monitoring, space, satellite, commercial and military aircraft and public safety. Customers test the electrical parameters of a broad spectrum of components and assemblies and final products and often require large systems containing multiple electronic instruments. We do not manufacture or sell weapons or munitions nor components therein. A small percentage of our revenue is from solutions with specific features or software tailor-made for our defense customers. In fiscal 2020, tailor-made defense revenue represented less than 5 percent of our total revenue. Communications Solutions Group Solutions Our software-driven electronic design and test solutions include software design tools, software-driven RF and microwave ( uW ) instruments, digital instruments and various other general purpose test instruments and targeted test solutions. Our technical breadth and expertise enables leading-edge solutions across commercial and government communications. Electronic Design Automation Software Our EDA software models, simulates and analyzes product designs at the circuit and system levels across RF/uW, high-speed digital, power electronics and semiconductor markets. R D engineers use the software to predict the behavior of designs prior to building a prototype. They identify and correct issues with the design and optimize performance in a virtual environment, thus reducing the number of design iterations, reducing both time to market and cost. RF and Microwave Solutions Our software-driven RF and microwave test solutions and related software tools are used mainly in commercial, wireless and aerospace and defense applications. These solutions are required for the design and production of wireless network products, communications links, mobile devices and base stations. RF and microwave test instruments include signal analyzers, signal generators, network analyzers, network emulation tools and power meters. Our measurement application software is an integrated extension of our hardware solutions and enables a wide range of measurement capability used across all end markets to design and manufacture next-generation electronic components and products. Software tools are used to design and test wireless devices and test the performance of networks. 8 Table of Contents Digital Solutions Our software-driven digital test solutions are used by R D engineers across a broad range of customers to validate the function and performance of their digital product and system designs. These designs include a wide range of products from simple digital control circuits to complex high-speed systems such as computer servers. The test solutions offered include oscilloscopes, logic and serial protocol analyzers, logic signal sources, arbitrary waveform generators and bit error rate testers. Our customers also use our high frequency EDA software tools to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications as digital speeds continue to increase. Network Test and Network Visibility Solutions We offer a comprehensive suite of hardware and virtual network test platforms and software applications that provide customers with the ability to perform a broad range of testing for layers 2-7 of the network stack. These solutions measure and analyze the performance, functionality, interoperability, se