Item 1 Business 3 Item 1A Risk Factors 16 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 1 C Cybersecurity 29 Item 2 Properties 31 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 32 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 32 PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 33 Item 6 [Reserved] 34 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 106 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 106 Item 9B Other Information 106 Item 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 106 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 106 Item 11 Executive Compensation 107 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 107 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 108 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 108 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 108 Item 16 Form 10-K Summary 113 Signatures 114 2 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements which include but are not limited to predictions, future guidance, projections, beliefs, and expectations about the company s trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of government regulations on our ability to conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, and our transition to lower-cost regions. The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Keysight s results to differ materially from management s current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the impact of global economic conditions such as inflation or potential recession, slowing demand for products or services, volatility in financial markets, reduced access to credit, changes in interest rates, the existence of political or economic instability, uncertainty related to the impact of national elections results in the U.S. and UK, impacts of geopolitical tension and conflict in regions outside of the U.S., the impacts of increased trade tension and tightening of export control regulations, the impact of new and ongoing litigation, impacts related to net zero emissions commitments, and the impact of volatile weather caused by environmental conditions such as climate change. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Keysight Technologies, Inc. ( we, us, Keysight or the company ), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a global innovator in the computing, communications and electronics market, committed to advancing our customers business success by helping them solve critical challenges in the development and commercialization of their products and services. Our mission, accelerating innovation to connect and secure the world, speaks to the value we provide our customers in a world of ever-increasing technological complexity. We deliver this value through a broad range of design and test solutions that address the critical challenges our customers face in bringing their innovations to market on ever-shorter schedules. Keysight s portfolio of hardware, software, and services enables our customers engineering workflows as they design, manufacture, deploy, and optimize their products and solutions. Our revenue is derived primarily from solutions addressing research and development ( R D ) applications, and to a lesser degree, applications in manufacturing and operations. The accelerating pace of technological innovation and engineering intensity are long-term secular drivers of demand for Keysight s solutions and services. We serve a global set of customers in over 100 countries across a wide range of industry segments, including communications, aerospace defense, government, automotive, energy, industrial, general electronics, and semiconductor. We generated $5.0 billion, $5.5 billion and $5.4 billion of revenue in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment as of and for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, are provided in Note 16, Segment Information, to our consolidated financial statements. Keysight Leadership Model We trace our heritage back over 80 years to the beginning of Silicon Valley. The fundamental elements of our culture are represented in our Keysight Leadership Model ( KLM ), which provides a framework for sustained value creation for customers, shareholders, and employees. The KLM centers on delivering customer success via a continuous activity system and core values that guide and drive our actions as a company and as individuals. The activities are summarized as an ongoing cycle 3 Table of Contents of market insight that drives capital allocation and yields timely solutions that are optimized via operational excellence. More information on the KLM can be found at https://about.keysight.com/en/companyinfo/leadership.shtml. Competitive Advantages Keysight conducts business globally with over 40,000 end customers each year, including many Fortune 1000 companies that are developing new electronic technologies, networks, systems, devices, and components. The following advantages enable us to deliver on our commitment of sustained value creation for our stakeholders. Deep, long-term global customer relationships Keysight s history of collaborative innovation is demonstrated by our service to leading companies across the diverse markets that we address. Our customers trust Keysight to deliver the technological expertise, leading-edge capabilities, and broad solutions portfolio that they need to achieve their product development goals. Keysight employs a comprehensive global direct sales channel with experienced management and highly technical sales and application engineers, including a strong local presence in emerging markets. These sales personnel are supported by tight collaboration with the engineering teams who create the solutions used by our customers so that problems can be addressed efficiently, and solutions enhanced quickly, to enable customer success. Our legacy of over 80 years of contribution in measurement science and the resulting breadth of our products and solutions yields a large, global installed base. This base of customers enables a large and growing services portfolio and offers additional sales opportunities as customers upgrade their products over time. Unique technology expertise and capabilities Keysight is a technology-driven company, investing in R D to align our business with available markets and position the company for growth. As our customers trusted test and measurement partner, we innovate at the leading edge of the technologies they seek to utilize in their electronic systems under development. We employ a combination of strategies to lead in this area, including engagement with top standards bodies and industry consortia and close collaboration with top research programs in universities and industry. Our central R D team, Keysight Labs, focuses on developing breakthrough hardware and software technologies that are deployed in application-specific contexts by our business engineering teams. We develop and incorporate proprietary semiconductor and packaging technology to address the specific needs of our solutions, enabling differentiated performance within our industry. Differentiated, first-to-market solutions portfolio Keysight s industry-focused organizational structure emphasizes our engagement with leading customers across our end markets. We leverage these relationships, together with our technology expertise, to identify market opportunities and seek to maximize the lifecycle value of our design and test contributions beginning in R D. Our development teams leverage the broad array of Keysight hardware, software, and services, adding new capability as necessary, to create market-leading solutions. Providing leading-edge, application-focused solutions for our customers in line with their project schedules is key to our differentiation and value delivery and facilitates the continuous advancement of electronics technology. With a software- and 4 Table of Contents customer-centric focus, we continue to make strategic investments to expand the R D mix of our revenue and grow the software and services content of our business, which has the added benefit of increasing recurring revenue. Durable and resilient business model Our operating model incorporates cost structure flexibility that has allowed Keysight to deliver profitability across a range of economic and market conditions. We employ variable pay mechanisms across our entire employee population and complement this with the strategic use of contingent staffing. We have a diversified go-to-market approach with indirect sales partners and electronic commerce to complement our direct sales force. This approach provides flexibility with the added benefit of expanding our reach and providing improved transactional purchase capability. We use a centralized order fulfillment organization that supplies solutions to customers worldwide, allowing us to leverage the scale of our business to provide high-quality products while maintaining competitive margins. We complement our in-house capabilities with an extensive network of suppliers and subcontractors, which allows us to adapt to changing market conditions. The durability and resilience of our business model has provided strategic flexibility and enabled the company to continue to allocate capital and invest in growth through different market environments. Innovative culture Keysight's culture has at its foundation the operating principles and values embodied in the KLM, with innovation as a key source of our strength. Our employees around the world embrace these principles and deliver industry-leading capabilities across a range of fields that are not only technical in nature but encompass a wide range of contributions to our business, customers, and shareholders. Keysight continues to be recognized as an employer of choice. We strive to enable employee growth in a diverse, inclusive, and respectful work environment that offers challenging assignments, development opportunities, competitive compensation, and a safe workplace. This environment supports our employees to achieve their full potential and enables collaboration to innovate at the speed of our customers. S trategic Priorities Keysight s business strategy is exemplified in four key objectives: Invest to deliver differentiated, first-to-market solutions This priority is central to our value contribution for our customers in their world of increasing technology complexity and decreasing time-to-market. To this end, our intent is to invest approximately 16% of our revenue in R D annually over the cycle. In 2024, R D investment totaled $919 million. We employ vertical technology integration that leverages investments in core hardware technology, such as advanced semiconductor capability provided by our in-house fab, custom packaging from our technology centers, and other unique competencies. We integrate these hardware technologies with core software functionality enabled by our software engineering teams (representing the majority of our R D staff) and accelerated by leveraging our broad portfolio. We then add relevant services to deliver differentiated solutions that meet the needs of the market. Deep relationships with market-defining customers provide detailed understanding of their needs and schedules. This enables us to work at our customers pace to deliver solutions that enable their development cycles with first-to-market timing. Capture opportunities in our served addressable market and expand in attractive adjacencies Building on our industry-leading position, we are investing to capitalize on emerging technologies, expanding our portfolio of solutions and engaging earlier in our customers design and innovation life cycles to enhance our value and target technology inflections. This is an important aspect of our capital allocation strategy to deliver sustainable and profitable growth. We continue to work on multiple potential vectors for growth as we expand Keysight s contributions across the technology stack, building on our core strength in physical layer test and adding new protocol layer test and system emulation capabilities, as well as new application layer solutions that address opportunities in design and data management. In 2024, we acquired ESI Group SA ( ESI Group ), broadening our software offerings with the addition of computer-aided engineering solutions. In addition, we enhanced our security offerings with the acquisition of Riscure Holding B.V., providing testing solutions and software for semiconductor, embedded systems, and Internet of Things ( IoT ) devices, and extended our range of radio frequency ( RF ) and microwave ( uW ) instruments with the acquisition of AnaPico AG. In fiscal 2024, we announced our intention to acquire Spirent Communications PLC to complement our position in communications test, and entered into a definitive agreement with Synopsys, Inc. ( Synopsys ) to acquire Synopsys Optical Solutions Group to further broaden our design engineering software portfolio. 5 Table of Contents Grow recurring revenue This component of our strategy benefits from the increasing software content in our solutions and emphasizes delivering continuous value to our customers throughout the solution lifecycle. It also leverages our broad services portfolio as we provide unique and high-value services to extend the value of our solutions. We have a dedicated global enterprise software sales force to drive this priority and maximize cross-selling opportunities across our go-to-market channels. Be good stewards of capital Keysight strives to be a good steward of capital. Leveraging the strength of our differentiated portfolio and flexible operating model, together with our strong balance sheet and cash generation, we maintain our disciplined approach to capital allocation, balancing investment for organic growth, mergers and acquisitions, and return of capital. Broad Portfolio of Design and Test Solutions Keysight delivers a portfolio of products and solutions that enable our customers to efficiently develop, deploy, and optimize their product offerings. The main components of our portfolio are hardware, software, and services that are delivered on a standalone basis or combined into application-specific solutions. Application-specific solutions employ a software-centric approach that directly leverages the breadth of our portfolio by combining relevant hardware, software, and services into solutions that address high-value applications and industry-specific requirements. This approach allows Keysight to deliver differentiated value to our customers, built from a foundation of industry-leading products and services that can be configured to meet their needs. Hardware products include a broad range of platforms delivering precise measurement and control of numerous electrical and information properties in signals. These products consist of modular and integrated instruments in a variety of form factors. Some of the major product categories are: Spectrum and Signal Analyzers a line of products providing detailed analysis of complex communications and radar signals across a wide range of frequencies, including radio frequency, microwave, and optical. Network Analyzers an array of products providing detailed characterization of the behavior of electronic components and subsystems when stimulated by a range of input signals. Power Analyzers a range of products to accurately measure voltage, current, and power characteristics of an electronic device or system under a range of operating conditions. Protocol Analyzers a range of products allowing the debug, validation, and optimization of electronic systems employing various protocols for data transmission, usually defined by widely adopted standards, such as PCI Express ( PCIe ) or Universal Serial Bus ( USB ), as well as others. Oscilloscopes a range of products offering precise visualization, debug, and characterization of time domain signals across a wide range of operating conditions. Digital Multimeters a range of products in a variety of form factors delivering accurate and reliable measurement of basic electrical parameters. Signal Generators (Signal Sources) a range of products offering flexibility and precise control of the generation of a broad variety of signals used to provide stimulus to electronic devices and systems under test. Power Supplies a range of products used to provide precise control of power delivery to electrical and electronic systems under test. Network Test Products a range of systems to debug, validate, and characterize communication networks and network components across a range of operating conditions and measurement types. Network Visibility Products a portfolio of products and solutions delivering rich data insight about network traffic, applications, and users across any networking environment to ensure they remain connected and secure. This summary is only a subset of Keysight s industry-leading array of hardware product offerings. More details can be found on our website using the link at the end of this section. 6 Table of Contents Software represents a crucial component of our strategy to deliver differentiated, first-to-market solutions to our customers. Our open and scalable PathWave software platform accelerates our ability to deliver application-specific measurement solutions that integrate our instruments into connected workflows with automation, data management, and analytics. Keysight s software products are characterized in the following three categories: Instrument software applications are designed to optimize the value that our customers derive from our instruments, providing faster insight and analytics by integrating the instrument s hardware and software into an application-focused solution. This approach typically builds on the basic software used to operate our instruments by adding software applications to deliver measurements tailored to a specific application. For example, customers may purchase a signal analyzer equipped with a software application to analyze specific signals such as those used in satellite communications. Software application solutions unify multiple instruments into an application-specific measurement solution, providing faster time to insight across industry-specific applications, technologies, and lifecycle phases. An example of this is software that enables a signal generator and signal analyzer to be used as a stimulus-response tester for performance characterization of a communications component or device. Our standalone software solutions enable customers to address their design, simulation, emulation, test automation, and quality assurance needs in the R D lab and beyond. These solutions enable our customers to efficiently develop robust product designs and translate them into physical products. Our software test automation platform uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to accelerate customer productivity in software test creation and execution. Keysight Global Services provides support services to enable our customers success with their Keysight products and solutions. Our global scale is complemented by localized presence with trained engineers and technicians delivering our services via regional support centers located near customers or on-site teams. This approach increases the efficiency and uniformity of our services offerings and allows for close collaboration with our engineering and go-to-market teams. Our services offerings are summarized as follows: Product support services deliver comprehensive support that includes repair, parts, and accredited calibrations of Keysight products and solutions. Technical and application support for hardware, software, and solutions, known as KeysightCare, allows customers to maximize their productivity and the utility of our products and solutions in their application environment. Professional services, including installation, training, and engineering services, optimize equipment and solution adoption, utilization, and integration into customers unique environments. More information on our broad portfolio of products and services can be found at https://www.keysight.com/us/en/products.html. Operating Segments We have two reportable operating segments, the Communications Solutions Group ( CSG ) and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group ( EISG ). Communications Solutions Group CSG serves customers spanning the global commercial communications and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The group s solutions consist of electronic design and test software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of communication systems in wireless, wireline, enterprise, and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Commercial Communications The market for Keysight s commercial communications solutions spans the communications ecosystem from design through operations and across the industry s broad spectrum of components, devices, equipment, and services. Our solutions address the communications lifecycle in both wireless and wireline domains, from design and simulation, validation, and characterization, through manufacturing, deployment, and optimization, including cybersecurity. 7 Table of Contents Keysight s commercial communications customers develop and deploy communications products and services and operate communications networks around the world. Our customers represent a diverse group of suppliers across the global industry value chain and include original equipment and contract manufacturers supplying wireless and wireline semiconductors, chipsets, modules, and devices. Our customers also include network equipment manufacturers ( NEMs ) as well as those operating communications and computing networks, including enterprises, communications network service providers, and cloud computing service providers. These customers require design, simulation, and measurement tools to validate the correct functional operation, conformance to standards, and parametric performance of their products and systems under development. Their needs span the wide range of technologies employed in modern wired and wireless communications system designs such as 5G, 6G, 800Gb/sec, 1.6Tb/sec, and many others. These needs have also evolved rapidly given the continuous advancement of digital, communications, and computing standards. Keysight s broad portfolio of products and solutions serve their many specific applications, accelerating the development, validation, quality manufacturing and deployment of their products and services, as well as aiding in their secure and efficient operation, service, and repair. Aerospace, Defense, and Government The market for Keysight s aerospace, defense, and government solutions consists of applications addressing secure and highly reliable communications, space and satellite equipment development and operations, and government research across a wide spectrum of electronics technologies used in aerospace and defense. General applications include electromagnetic spectrum operations (e.g., communications, radar, signal intelligence), cybersecurity, and others, often incorporating ruggedized and high-reliability designs for military equipment. Research applications are wide-ranging and include areas such as quantum communications and computing, cyber-physical control systems, energy as well as materials science research. Our aerospace, defense, and government customers are research agencies and manufacturers serving the aerospace and defense industries, including commercial and government customers and their contracted suppliers. Commercial suppliers include aerospace, defense, and satellite equipment prime contractors, subcontractors, and related component suppliers. Government customers include a range of government agencies, such as departments and ministries of defense, security agencies, and related government research entities. Our customers need to accelerate the modernization of their defense systems to realize the benefits of the continuous evolution in electronic systems. They strive to embrace new space, energy, and communications advances, and ensure secure supply chains. These customers require design, simulation, and measurement tools to accelerate their efforts to ensure the proper operation and performance of the devices and systems they are developing, deploying, and operating. They use Keysight s products and solutions to explore design alternatives, validate their component and system designs and prototypes, ensure quality manufacturing, and operate, service, and repair their systems in the field. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group EISG serves customers across a diverse set of end markets focused on automotive and energy, semiconductor solutions, and general electronics. The group's solutions consist of electronic design, test and simulation software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of electronic equipment. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Our recent acquisition of ESI Group expands our application layer portfolio with simulation capabilities in automotive and general electronics. Automotive and Energy The market for Keysight s automotive and energy solutions consists of design and measurement applications addressing the major transformational trends in these industries. These applications include the growth of electric and autonomous vehicles, the evolution of energy systems to incorporate alternative forms of generation and advanced control, and the many new subsystem and component technologies under development to enable and advance these trends. Our automotive and energy customers include automotive original equipment manufacturers and Tier 1 and 2 suppliers, along with the component and subsystem suppliers that support them. We also count as customers the suppliers of alternative energy systems for green energy generation, storage, and control, as well as suppliers of enabling electronics technology such as high-power semiconductors and control systems. Our customers are innovating in energy management and advanced cyber-physical control systems that are the building blocks of these complex and transformative systems. These customers, many of whom are pioneering new standards and capabilities involving the application of advanced communications, computing, and applied materials research, require advanced design, simulation, and measurement capability to fully explore these new application areas and enable the 8 Table of Contents development of their products and services. They rely on Keysight s software-centric solutions to analyze and validate their concepts and products, thereby increasing their productivity and ultimately speeding the arrival of their products to market. Semiconductor The market for Keysight s semiconductor solutions consists of design and measurement applications to enable continued innovation in leading-edge semiconductors to address the demand for smaller, more power efficient, and highly integrated chips and chipsets. This innovation requires new approaches to design and measurement to enable realization of the design in the fab along with efficient testing at scale to preserve yield. Our semiconductor customers are primarily design and production teams in semiconductor and capital equipment companies who are looking to differentiate their offerings by implementing innovative new silicon architectures and continuing to advance the state of the art in semiconductor device capability. These innovations are the foundation of advances in electronics that are powering many new technologies in today s high-tech world. These teams require close collaboration with their design and measurement solutions suppliers t