Item 1. Business. 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 21 Item 2. Properties. 22 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 22 PART II 22 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 22 Item 6. [Reserved]. 23 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 24 Overview 24 Consolidated Results of Operations 25 Results of Operations by Segment 27 Liquidity and Capital Resources 30 Commodity Trends 35 Critical Accounting Estimates 35 New Accounting Pronouncements 40 Contingencies 40 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 46 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 46 Consolidated Statements of Income 49 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 50 Consolidated Balance Sheets 51 Consolidated Statements of Equity 52 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 53 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 54 Note 1. Basis of Presentation 54 Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies 55 Note 3. New Accounting Standards 60 Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures 60 Note 5. Restructuring Activities 66 Note 6. Restricted Cash 67 Note 7. Inventories 68 Note 8. Property, Plant and Equipment 68 Note 9. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 68 Note 10. Income Taxes 74 Note 11. Employees Stock Incentive Plans 76 Note 12. Postemployment Benefits 80 Note 13. Financial Instruments 90 Note 14. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Losses) 96 Note 15. Financing Arrangements 98 Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies 99 Note 17. Debt 100 Note 18. Leases 107 Note 19. Capital Stock 109 Note 20. Earnings Per Share 109 Note 21. Segment Reporting 110 Note 22. Other Financial Data 112 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 114 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 114 Item 9B. Other Information. 115 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 115 PART III 115 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 115 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 115 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 115 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 115 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 115 PART IV 116 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 116 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 121 Signatures 122 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S- 1 Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our, Kraft Heinz, and the Company each refer to The Kraft Heinz Company and all of its consolidated subsidiaries. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains a number of forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipate, reflect, invest, see, make, expect, give, deliver, drive, believe, improve, assess, reassess, remain, evaluate, grow, will, plan, intend, and variations of such words and similar future or conditional expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our plans, impacts of accounting standards and guidance, growth, legal matters, taxes, costs and cost savings, impairments, and dividends. These forward-looking statements reflect management s current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Important factors that may affect our business and operations and that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the impacts of COVID-19 and government and consumer responses; operating in a highly competitive industry; our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation; changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail customers; changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers, or in other business relationships; our ability to maintain, extend, and expand our reputation and brand image; our ability to leverage our brand value to compete against private label products; our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or platforms, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster-growing and more profitable categories; product recalls or other product liability claims; climate change and legal or regulatory responses; our ability to identify, complete, or realize the benefits from strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures, joint ventures, or other investments; our ability to successfully execute our strategic initiatives; the impacts of our international operations; our ability to protect intellectual property rights; our ownership structure; our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from prior or future streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness; our level of indebtedness, as well as our ability to comply with covenants under our debt instruments; additional impairments of the carrying amounts of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; volatility in commodity, energy, and other input costs; volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the commodity derivatives we use; compliance with laws and regulations and related legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions; failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; a downgrade in our credit rating; the impact of future sales of our common stock in the public market; our ability to continue to pay a regular dividend and the amounts of any such dividends; unanticipated business disruptions and natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers, distributors, or regulators operate; economic and political conditions in the United States and in various other nations where we do business; changes in our management team or other key personnel and our ability to hire or retain key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce; risks associated with information technology and systems, including service interruptions, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security; increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses; changes in tax laws and interpretations; volatility of capital markets and other macroeconomic factors; and other factors. For additional information on these and other factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, see Item 1A, Risk Factors . We disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update, revise, or withdraw any forward-looking statement in this report, except as required by applicable law or regulation. PART I Item 1. Business. General We are driving transformation at The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC), inspired by our Purpose, Let s Make Life Delicious . Consumers are at the center of everything we do. With 2021 net sales of approximately $26 billion, we are committed to growing our iconic and emerging food and beverage brands on a global scale. We leverage our scale and agility to unleash the full power of Kraft Heinz across a portfolio of six consumer-driven product platforms. As global citizens, we re dedicated to making a sustainable, ethical impact while helping feed the world in healthy, responsible ways. On July 2, 2015, through a series of transactions, we consummated the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. ( Kraft ) with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation ( Heinz ) (the 2015 Merger ). At the closing of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company, and H. J. Heinz Company changed its name to Kraft Heinz Foods Company. Before the consummation of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was controlled by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire Hathaway ) and 3G Global Food Holdings, LP ( 3G Global Food Holdings and, together with its affiliates, 3G Capital ) (3G Capital together with Berkshire Hathaway, the Sponsors ), following their acquisition of H. J. Heinz Company on June 7, 2013 (the 2013 Heinz Acquisition ). We operate on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December in each calendar year. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to years and quarters contained herein pertain to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. Our 2021 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 25, 2021, the 2020 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 26, 2020, and the 2019 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 28, 2019. Reportable Segments: We manage and report our operating results through three reportable segments defined by geographic region: United States, International, and Canada. During the fourth quarter of 2021, certain organizational changes were announced that will impact our future internal reporting and reportable segments. As a result of these changes, we plan to combine our United States and Canada zones to form the North America zone, and expect to have two reportable segments, North America and International. We expect that any change to our reportable segments will be effective in the second quarter of 2022. See Note 21, Segment Reporting , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for our geographic financial information by segment. COVID-19 Pandemic: The ongoing spread of COVID-19 throughout the United States and internationally, as well as measures implemented by governmental authorities and private businesses in an attempt to minimize transmission of the virus (including social distancing mandates, shelter-in-place orders, vaccine mandates, and business restrictions and shutdowns) and consumer responses to such measures and the pandemic have had and continue to have negative and positive implications for portions of our business. Though many areas have relaxed restrictions, varying levels remain throughout the world, are continuously evolving, and may be increased, including as a result of further outbreaks, resurgences, or the emergence of new variants. We have been actively monitoring the impact of COVID-19 on our business. In 2020, particularly in March and April, we experienced consolidated net sales growth as higher demand for our retail products more than offset declines in our foodservice business. In 2021, we continued to experience strong retail demand compared to pre-pandemic periods. However, retail consumption declined when compared to the comparable 2020 period based on the strong consumer demand early on in the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in March and April 2020. Beginning in the second quarter of 2021 and continuing through year end, our foodservice business experienced increased consumer demand compared to the comparable 2020 periods, which were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we continue to see decreased foodservice demand in certain parts of our global business, including the United States and Canada, compared to pre-pandemic periods. COVID-19 and its impacts are unprecedented and continuously evolving, and the long-term impacts to our financial condition and results of operations are still uncertain. 1 Resources Trademarks and Intellectual Property: Our trademarks are material to our business and are among our most valuable assets. Depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. Significant trademarks by segment based on net sales in 2021 were: Majority Owned and Licensed Trademarks United States Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Heinz, Velveeta, Philadelphia, Lunchables, Capri Sun*, Ore-Ida, Maxwell House, Kool-Aid, Jell-O International Heinz, ABC, Master, Kraft, Golden Circle, Quero, Plasmon, Wattie s, Pudliszki Canada Kraft, Philadelphia, Heinz, Classico, Maxwell House *Used under license. We sell certain products under brands we license from third parties. In 2021, brands used under licenses from third parties included Capri Sun packaged drink pouches for sale in the United States. In addition, in our agreements with Mondel z International, Inc. ( Mondel z ), following the spin-off of Kraft from Mondel z in 2012, we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions for certain periods of time. In 2021, in our agreements with an affiliate of Groupe Lactalis ( Lactalis ), related to the sale of certain assets in our global cheese business, we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in perpetuity, including perpetual licenses for the Kraft and Velveeta brands for certain cheese products. We also own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Raw Materials and Packaging: We manufacture (and contract for the manufacture of) our products from a wide variety of raw materials. We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, tomatoes, potatoes, corn products, wheat products, nuts, and cocoa products, to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, fiberboard, metals, and cardboard to package our products, and we use electricity, diesel fuel, and natural gas in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. For commodities that we use across many of our product categories, such as corrugated paper and energy, we coordinate sourcing requirements and centralize procurement to leverage our scale. In addition, some of our product lines and brands separately source raw materials that are specific to their operations. We source these commodities from a variety of providers, including large, international producers and smaller, local, independent sellers. Where appropriate, we seek to establish preferred purchaser status and have developed strategic partnerships with many of our suppliers with the objective of achieving favorable pricing and dependable supply for many of our commodities. The prices of raw materials that we use in our products are affected by external factors, such as global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, pandemics, consumer, industrial, or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, tariffs, alternative energy, and agricultural programs. In 2021, we experienced higher than expected commodity costs and supply chain costs, including logistics, procurement, and manufacturing costs, largely due to inflationary pressures. We expect this cost inflation to remain elevated through at least 2022. Our procurement teams monitor worldwide supply and cost trends so we can obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production at competitive prices. Although the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. We use a range of hedging techniques in an effort to limit the impact of price fluctuations on many of our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. We actively monitor changes to commodity costs so that we can seek to mitigate the effect through pricing and other operational measures. 2 Research and Development Our research and development efforts focus on achieving the following four objectives: product innovations, renovations, and new technologies to meet changing consumer needs and drive growth; world-class and uncompromising food safety, quality, and consistency; superior, customer-preferred product and package performance; and continuous process improvement and product optimization in pursuit of cost reductions. Competition Our products are sold in highly competitive marketplaces, which have experienced increased concentration and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers, large-format retailers, and discounters. Our competitors include large national and international food and beverage companies and numerous local and regional companies. We compete with both branded and private label products sold by retailers, wholesalers, and cooperatives. We compete on the basis of product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy changing consumer preferences. Improving our market position or introducing new products requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures. Sales Sales and Customers: Our products are sold through our own sales organizations and through independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain, wholesale, cooperative and independent grocery accounts, convenience stores, drug stores, value stores, bakeries, pharmacies, mass merchants, club stores, foodservice distributors, and institutions, including hotels, restaurants, hospitals, health care facilities, and certain government agencies. Our products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. Our largest customer, Walmart Inc., represented approximately 22% of our net sales in both 2021 and 2020 and approximately 21% of our net sales in 2019. Additionally, we have key customers in different regions around the world; however, none of these customers are individually significant to our consolidated business. In 2021, the five largest customers in our United States segment accounted for approximately 50% of United States segment net sales, the five largest customers in our International segment accounted for approximately 17% of International segment net sales, and the five largest customers in our Canada segment accounted for approximately 74% of Canada segment net sales. We manage our sales portfolio through six consumer-driven product platforms. A platform is a lens created for the portfolio based on a grouping of real consumer needs and includes the following for Kraft Heinz: Taste Elevation, Fast Fresh Meals, Easy Meals Made Better, Real Food Snacking, Flavorful Hydration, and Easy Indulgent Desserts. The platforms are modular and configurable by reportable segment and market. Further, each platform is assigned a role within our business to help inform our resource allocation and investment decisions, which are made at the reportable segment level. These roles include: Grow, Energize, and Stabilize. The role of a platform may also vary by reportable segment and market. The platform approach helps us to manage our business efficiently, including the oversight of our various product categories and brands, and transforms the way we plan for our growth. Net Sales by Platform: In 2021, following the divestiture of certain of our global cheese businesses, we reorganized certain products within our platforms to reflect how we plan to manage our business going forward, including the role assigned to these products and platforms within our business. We have reflected these changes in all historical periods presented. Net sales by platform as a percentage of consolidated net sales for the periods presented were: December 25, 2021 December 26, 2020 December 28, 2019 Taste Elevation 28 % 26 % 26 % Fast Fresh Meals 25 % 26 % 25 % Easy Meals Made Better 19 % 19 % 17 % Real Food Snacking 7 % 9 % 9 % Flavorful Hydration 7 % 6 % 6 % Easy Indulgent Desserts 4 % 4 % 4 % Other 10 % 10 % 13 % 3 Net Sales by Product Category: The product categories that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net sales in any of the periods presented were: December 25, 2021 December 26, 2020 December 28, 2019 Condiments and sauces 28 % 26 % 26 % Cheese and dairy 19 % 20 % 20 % Ambient foods 11 % 11 % 10 % Frozen and chilled foods 10 % 10 % 9 % Meats and seafood 10 % 10 % 10 % Seasonality Although crops constituting certain of our raw food ingredients are harvested on a seasonal basis, the majority of our products are produced throughout the year. Seasonal factors inherent in our business change the demand for products, including holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events. While these factors influence our quarterly net sales, operating income/(loss), and cash flows at the product level, unless the timing of such events shift period-over-period (e.g., a shift in Easter timing), this seasonality does not typically have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations or segment results. Government Regulation The manufacture and sale of consumer food and beverage products is highly regulated. Our business operations, including the production, transportation, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, quality and safety of our products and their ingredients, and our occupational safety, health, and privacy practices, are subject to various laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the United States, as well as government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets where our products are manufactured, distributed, or sold. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Labor, Department of Commerce, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also subject to numerous laws and regulations outside of the United States, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption, and data privacy. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ), the U.K. Bribery Act, the U.S. Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act, and various other anti-corruption regulations in the regions in which we operate. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. In addition, regulatory regime changes may add cost and complexity to our compliance efforts. Environmental Regulation: Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight regarding environmental matters. Various laws concerning the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and the operation of facilities in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations. In the United States, where a significant portion of our business operates, these laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ( CERCLA ). CERCLA imposes joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party. We are involved in a number of active proceedings in the United States under CERCLA (and other similar state actions under similar legislation) related to certain closed, inactive, or divested operations for which we retain liability. As of December 25, 2021, we had accrued an amount we deemed appropriate for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition. However, it is difficult to predict with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and environmental remedial actions and thus, future costs associated with such matters may exceed current reserves. 4 Human Capital Management We are driven by our Purpose, our Vision To sustainably grow by delighting more consumers globally , and our Values We are consumer obsessed , We dare to do better every day , We champion great people , We demand diversity , We do the right thing , and We own it . We recognize that a strong company culture is vital to our overall success. Our Purpose, Vision, and Values are the foundation upon which our culture is built. They represent the expectations we have for ourselves and the environment we aspire to create for our Company. Our Board of Directors ( Board ), through the Compensation Committee, oversees our human resources strategy and key policies. Engagement and Retention: We are committed to attracting, developing, and retaining diverse, world-class talent and creating an engaging and inclusive culture that embodies our Purpose, Vision, and Values. As of December 25, 2021, Kraft Heinz had approximately 36,000 employees globally. Driven by our Value We champion great people , we are committed to supporting our employees health, safety, and professional development and to rewarding outstanding performance at every level. Our compensation, benefits, recognition, and LiveWell programs are designed to attract and retain highly skilled talent, meet individual and family needs, and inspire, celebrate, and engage our people and teams through active listening channels. Guided by our Values, we conduct a global engagement survey annually to provide our employees with an opportunity to share anonymous feedback with management across a variety of topic areas. Leaders review the results to help determine where changes are needed to support our people and teams. Wellbeing and Safety: Our employees health, safety, and wellbeing are of the utmost importance. We establish and administer company-wide policies and processes to protect the health, safety, and security of our employees, subcontractors, and all those who visit our facilities, and to comply with applicable regulations. We review and monitor our performance closely to drive continuous improvement. In 2021, our Total Recordable Incident Rate ( TRIR ) was 0.62 globally. TRIR is a medical incident rate based on the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) record-keeping criteria (injuries per 200,000 hours). In response to the emergence of COVID-19 in early 2020, we provided enhanced benefits and implemented additional workplace safety programs and processes in all our manufacturing facilities, many of which have continued through 2021. In 2021, we also began a limited return to office for our global office populations with heightened in-office health and safety protocols that followed local regulations. As the circumstances and impacts of COVID-19 continue to evolve, we regularly evaluate our response to adapt and protect the health and safety of our employees, while supporting consumers and our communities. Our global LiveWell program addresses physical, emotional, financial, and social health and wellbeing. We have continued to champion the LiveWell program s holistic approach to wellbeing in response to COVID-19 with enhanced programs, including healthcare benefits, disability, and employee assistance initiatives. Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging: We live our Value of We demand diversity by focusing on three strategic areas: hiring and growing talent from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, developing inclusive leaders, and tracking and reporting our progress. In 2021, we shared our 2025 diversity, inclusion, and belonging aspirations, which include that 50% of our global management positions be filled by women and 30% of our salaried U.S. employee population identify as people of color. As of December 25, 2021: 39% of employees in management positions globally identified as women*; 27% of salaried employees in the U.S. identified as people of color; 30% of our Executive Leadership Team identified as women; and 80% of our Executive Leadership Team identified as people of color. *This figure does not include employees that joined the Company as part of acquisitions that closed in the fourth quarter of 2021, which represent approximately 1% of our total employees globally as of December 25, 2021. As we work to meet our 2025 aspirations, we are focused on: Hiring and Growing Talent from Diverse Backgrounds and Perspectives through expanded recruiting partnerships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities and training and leveraging artificial intelligence in ou