Item 1. Business. 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 22 Item 1C. Cybersecurit y 22 Item 2. Properties. 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 24 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. 24 PART II 24 Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 24 Item 6. [Reserved]. 26 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 27 Overview 27 Consolidated Results of Operations 28 Results of Operations by Segment 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources 32 Commodity Trends 37 Critical Accounting Estimates 37 New Accounting Pronouncements 41 Contingencies 41 Non-GAAP Financial Measures 41 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 45 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 46 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 46 Consolidated Statements of Income 49 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 50 Consolidated Balance Sheets 51 Consolidated Statements of Equity 52 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 53 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 54 Note 1. Basis of Presentation 54 Note 2. Significant Accounting Policies 55 Note 3. New Accounting Standards 59 Note 4. Acquisitions and Divestitures 60 Note 5. Restructuring Activities 65 Note 6. Inventories 66 Note 7. Property, Plant and Equipment 66 Note 8. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 67 Note 9. Income Taxes 72 Note 10. Employees Stock Incentive Plans 75 Note 11. Postemployment Benefits 78 Note 12. Financial Instruments 88 Note 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Losses) 93 Note 14. Financing Arrangements 95 Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies 96 Note 16. Debt 98 Note 17. Leases 102 Note 18. Capital Stock 103 Note 19. Earnings Per Share 104 Note 20. Segment Reporting 105 Note 21. Other Financial Data 107 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 109 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. 109 Item 9B. Other Information. 110 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections. 110 PART III 110 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 110 Item 11. Executive Compensation. 110 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 110 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 110 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. 110 PART IV 111 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 111 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary. 116 Signatures 117 Valuation and Qualifying Accounts S- 1 Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our, Kraft Heinz, and the Company each refer to The Kraft Heinz Company and all of its consolidated subsidiaries. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains a number of forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipate, reflect, invest, see, make, expect, give, deliver, drive, believe, improve, assess, reassess, remain, evaluate, grow, will, plan, intend, and variations of such words and similar future or conditional expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our plans, impacts of accounting standards and guidance, growth, legal matters, taxes, costs and cost savings, impairments, and dividends. These forward-looking statements reflect management s current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Important factors that may affect our business and operations and that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, operating in a highly competitive industry; our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation; changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail customers; changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers, or in other business relationships; our ability to maintain, extend, and expand our reputation and brand image; our ability to leverage our brand value to compete against private label products; our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or platforms, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster-growing and more profitable categories; product recalls or other product liability claims; climate change and legal or regulatory responses; our ability to identify, complete, or realize the benefits from strategic acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures, or investments; our ability to successfully execute our strategic initiatives; the impacts of our international operations; our ability to protect intellectual property rights; our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from prior or future streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness; the influence of our largest stockholder; our level of indebtedness, as well as our ability to comply with covenants under our debt instruments; additional impairments of the carrying amounts of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; volatility in commodity, energy, and other input costs; volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the commodity derivatives we use; compliance with laws and regulations and related legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions; failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; a downgrade in our credit rating; the impact of sales of our common stock in the public market; the impact of our share repurchases or any change in our share repurchase activity; our ability to continue to pay a regular dividend and the amounts of any such dividends; disruptions in the global economy caused by geopolitical conflicts, unanticipated business disruptions and natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers, distributors, or regulators operate; economic and political conditions in the United States and various other nations where we do business (including inflationary pressures, instability in financial institutions, general economic slowdown, recession, or a potential U.S. federal government shutdown); changes in our management team or other key personnel and our ability to hire or retain key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce; our dependence on information technology and systems, including service interruptions, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security; increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses; changes in tax laws and interpretations and the final determination of tax audits, including transfer pricing matters, and any related litigation; volatility of capital markets and other macroeconomic factors; and other factors. For additional information on these and other factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, see Item 1A, Risk Factors . We disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update, revise, or withdraw any forward-looking statement in this report, except as required by applicable law or regulation. PART I Item 1. Business. General We are driving transformation at The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC), inspired by our Purpose, Let s Make Life Delicious . Consumers are at the center of everything we do. With 2023 net sales of approximately $27 billion, we are committed to growing our iconic and emerging food and beverage brands on a global scale. We leverage our scale and agility to unleash the full power of Kraft Heinz across a portfolio of six consumer-driven product platforms. As global citizens, we re dedicated to making a sustainable, ethical impact while helping to feed the world in healthy, responsible ways. On July 2, 2015, through a series of transactions, we consummated the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. ( Kraft ) with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation ( Heinz ) (the 2015 Merger ). At the closing of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company, and H. J. Heinz Company changed its name to Kraft Heinz Foods Company ( KHFC ). We operate on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December in each calendar year. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to years and quarters contained herein pertain to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. Our 2023 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 30, 2023, our 2022 fiscal year was a 53-week period that ended on December 31, 2022, and our 2021 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 25, 2021. Reportable Segments: We manage and report our operating results through two reportable segments defined by geographic region: North America and International. During the fourth quarter of 2023, certain organizational changes were announced that are expected to impact our future internal reporting and reportable segments. We expect to divide our International segment into three operating segments Europe and Pacific Developed Markets ( EPDM or International Developed Markets ), West and East Emerging Markets ( WEEM ), and Asia Emerging Markets ( AEM ) in order to enable enhanced focus on the different strategies required for each of these regions as part of our long-term strategic plan. As a result of these changes, we expect to have two reportable segments: North America and International Developed Markets. We anticipate that our remaining operating segments, consisting of WEEM and AEM, will be combined and disclosed as Emerging Markets. We expect that the change to our reportable segments will be effective in the first quarter of 2024. See Note 20, Segment Reporting , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for our geographic financial information by segment. Resources Trademarks and Intellectual Property: Our trademarks are material to our business and are among our most valuable assets. Depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Significant trademarks by segment based on net sales in 2023 were: Majority Owned and Licensed Trademarks North America Kraft, Oscar Mayer, Heinz, Philadelphia, Lunchables, Velveeta, Ore-Ida, Capri Sun*, Maxwell House, Kool-Aid, Jell-O International Heinz, ABC, Master, Quero, Kraft, Golden Circle, Wattie s, Pudliszki, Plasmon *Used under license. We sell certain products under brands we license from third parties. In 2023, brands used under licenses from third parties included Capri Sun packaged drink pouches for sale in our North America segment. We also grant certain licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property rights in select jurisdictions. In 2021, in our agreements with an affiliate of Groupe Lactalis ( Lactalis ), related to the sale of certain assets in our global cheese business, we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in perpetuity, including perpetual licenses for the Kraft and Velveeta brands for certain cheese products. We also own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. 1 Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. Raw Materials and Packaging: We manufacture (and contract for the manufacture of) our products from a wide variety of raw materials. We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, tomato products, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, coffee beans, wheat and processed grains, eggs, and other fruits and vegetables to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, fiberboard, metals, and cardboard to package our products, and we use electricity, diesel fuel, and natural gas in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. For commodities that we use across many of our product categories, such as corrugated paper and energy, we coordinate sourcing requirements and centralize procurement to leverage our scale. In addition, some of our product lines and brands separately source raw materials that are specific to their operations. We source these commodities from a variety of providers, including large, international producers and smaller, local, independent sellers. Where appropriate, we seek to establish preferred purchaser status and have developed strategic partnerships with many of our suppliers with the objective of achieving favorable pricing and dependable supply for many of our commodities. The prices of raw materials that we use in our products are affected by external factors, such as global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, pandemics, geopolitical conflicts, consumer, industrial, or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, tariffs, alternative energy, and agricultural programs. In 2023, we continued to experience higher commodity costs and supply chain costs, including manufacturing, procurement, and logistics costs largely due to inflationary pressures concentrated in the first half of the year. Our procurement teams monitor worldwide supply and cost trends so we can obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production at competitive prices. Although the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. We use a range of hedging techniques in an effort to limit the impact of price fluctuations on many of our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. We actively monitor changes to commodity costs so that we can seek to mitigate the effect through pricing and other operational measures. Research and Development Our research and development efforts focus on achieving the following four objectives: product innovations, renovations, and new technologies to meet changing consumer needs, support our environmental and sustainability goals, and drive growth; world-class and uncompromising food safety, quality, and consistency; superior, consumer-preferred product and package performance; and continuous process, product, and supply chain optimization. Competition Our products are sold in highly competitive marketplaces, which continue to experience increased concentration and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers, large-format retailers, and discounters. Our competitors include large national and international food and beverage companies and numerous local and regional companies. We compete with both branded and private label products sold by retailers, wholesalers, and cooperatives. We compete on the basis of product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy changing consumer preferences. Improving our market position or introducing new products requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures. 2 Sales Sales and Customers: Our products are sold through our own sales organizations and through independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain, wholesale, cooperative, and independent grocery accounts; convenience, value, and club stores; pharmacies and drug stores; mass merchants; foodservice distributors; and institutions, including hotels, restaurants, bakeries, hospitals, health care facilities, and government agencies. Our products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. We have key customers in different regions around the world. In 2023, the five largest customers in our North America segment accounted for approximately 46% of North America segment net sales and the five largest customers in our International segment accounted for approximately 14% of International segment net sales. Our largest customer, Walmart Inc., represented approximately 21% of our net sales in 2023 and 2022, and approximately 22% of our net sales in 2021. Both of our segments have sales to Walmart Inc. As of December 30, 2023, we manage our sales portfolio through six consumer-driven product platforms. A platform is a lens created for the portfolio based on a grouping of real consumer needs and includes the following for Kraft Heinz: Taste Elevation, Fast Fresh Meals, Easy Meals Made Better, Real Food Snacking, Flavorful Hydration, and Easy Indulgent Desserts. The platforms are modular and configurable by reportable segment and market and help us to manage and organize our business effectively by providing insight into our various product categories and brands. Further, each platform is assigned a role within our business to help inform our resource allocation and investment decisions, which are made at the reportable segment level. These roles include: Grow, Energize, and Stabilize. The role of a platform may also vary by reportable segment and market. We are currently evaluating our existing platforms and roles and anticipate changes to align with our future growth strategy. Net Sales by Platform: Net sales by platform as a percentage of consolidated net sales for the periods presented were: December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 December 25, 2021 Taste Elevation 34 % 31 % 28 % Fast Fresh Meals 22 % 23 % 25 % Easy Meals Made Better 20 % 20 % 19 % Real Food Snacking 5 % 5 % 7 % Flavorful Hydration 7 % 8 % 7 % Easy Indulgent Desserts 4 % 4 % 4 % Other 8 % 9 % 10 % Net Sales by Product Category: The product categories that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net sales in any of the periods presented were: December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 December 25, 2021 Condiments and sauces 34 % 31 % 28 % Cheese and dairy 14 % 15 % 19 % Ambient foods 11 % 12 % 11 % Frozen and chilled foods 11 % 11 % 10 % Meats and seafood 9 % 10 % 10 % Seasonality Although crops constituting certain of our raw food ingredients are harvested on a seasonal basis, the majority of our products are produced throughout the year. Seasonal factors inherent in our business change the demand for products, including holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events. While these factors influence our quarterly net sales, operating income/(loss), and cash flows at the product level, unless the timing of such events shift period-over-period (e.g., a shift in Easter timing), this seasonality does not typically have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations or segment results. 3 Government Regulation The manufacture and sale of consumer food and beverage products is highly regulated. Our business operations, including the production, transportation, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, quality, and safety of our products and their ingredients, and our occupational safety, health, and privacy practices, are subject to various laws and regulations. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Labor, Department of Commerce, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also subject to numerous laws and regulations outside of the United States in markets where our products are manufactured, distributed, or sold, including laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption, and data privacy. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ), the U.K. Bribery Act, the U.S. Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act, and various other anti-corruption regulations in the regions in which we operate. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, regulatory regime changes may add cost and complexity to our compliance efforts. Environmental Regulation: Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight regarding environmental matters. Various laws concerning the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and the operation of facilities in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations. In the United States, where a significant portion of our business operates, these laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ( CERCLA ). CERCLA imposes joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party. We are involved in a number of active proceedings in the United States under CERCLA (and other state actions under similar legislation) related to certain closed, inactive, or divested operations for which we retain liability. As of December 30, 2023, we had accrued an amount we deemed appropriate for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our general compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition. However, it is difficult to predict with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and environmental remedial actions and, thus, future costs associated with such matters may exceed current reserves. Human Capital Management We are driven by our Purpose, our Vision To sustainably grow by delighting more consumers globally , and our Values We are consumer obsessed , We dare to do better every day , We champion great people , We demand diversity , We do the right thing , and We own it . We recognize that a strong company culture is vital to our overall success. Our Purpose, Vision, and Values are the foundation upon which our culture is built. They represent the expectations we have for ourselves and the environment we aspire to create for our Company. Our people are at the heart of who we are at Kraft Heinz. We drive growth through accountability, development opportunities, career ownership, and autonomy and recognize and reward outstanding performance at every level, creating a true spirit of meritocracy. We strive to channel our employees passion, curiosity, and attitude to make an impact on our future and our legacy by leading as learners, acting as owners, and being change agents. Our Board of Directors ( Board ), through the Human Capital and Compensation Committee, oversees our human resources strategy, key policies, and our 2025 diversity, inclusion, and belonging aspirations. Engagement and Inclusion: We are committed to attracting, developing, and retaining diverse, world-class talent and creating an engaging and inclusive culture that embodies our Purpose, Vision, and Values. As of December 30, 2023, Kraft Heinz had approximately 36,000 employees globally. Driven by our Value We champion great people , we support our employees health, safety, and professional development and reward outstanding performance at every level. Our rewards strategies (compensation, benefits, recognition, and wellbeing) aim to help our employees help themselves to LiveWell. LiveWell represents our total rewards offerings that are designed to attract and engage highly skilled talent, meet individual and family needs, and inspire, celebrate, and engage our people and teams through enhanced interactions in moments that matter in an environment where employees feel productive, trusted, and empowered. Guided by our Values, we conduct a global engagement survey annually to provide employees with an opportunity to share anonymous feedback with management across a variety of topic areas. The results and comments are reviewed by the Board, senior leadership, managers, and human resources to help determine where changes are needed to support our people and teams. 4 Diversity, inclusion, and belonging are key drivers for engagement. For us, it also means having our diverse consumer base represented in our workforce and included in relevant business decisions. We live our Value of We demand diversity by focusing on three strategic areas: hiring and growing talent from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, developing inclusive leaders, and tracking and reporting our progress. Our Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are employee-led, multi-functional groups based upon shared common interests. They help foster an engaged and inclusive environment where all talent grows and thrives, create a network of support for employees, and serve as a resource for the organization on topics related to their focus area. Our Global Inclusion Council has been established to create strategic accountability for results. It also provides governance and oversight of reporting on diversity efforts and initiatives. The Council is comprised of executive leaders and members of the Board. We have 2025 diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging ( DEI B ) aspirations that have shaped some of our guiding principles. Our long-term ambition is to have demographic parity in the countries in which we operate and to be recognized as a top quartile company in inclusion. Our aspirations include that 50% of our global management positions be filled by women and 30% of our salaried U.S. employee population identify as people of color. Our DEI B efforts have continued to be expanded as part of our multi-year strategy. Each day, we are working to create a healthier, more equitable global workplace and world. As of December 30, 2023: 43% of employees in global management positions identified as women; 29% of salaried employees in the U.S. identified as people of color; 33% of our Executive Leadership Team identified as women; and 78% of our Executive Leadership Team identified as people of color. As we progress on our 2025 aspirations, we are focused on: Hiring, Investing in, and Growing Talent from Diverse Backgrounds and Perspectives through expanded recruiting partnerships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities, diverse professional organizations, and training in our hiring process to reduce bias and promote equal employment opportunities. Developing Inclusive Leaders through an interactive learning experience for managers on interrupting bias in our Organizational People Review process and their role in creating an inclusive environment. Tracking and Reporting Our Progress year over year through oversight by the Kraft Heinz Global Inclusion Council. Wellbeing and Safety: Our employees health, safety, and wellbeing are a top priority. We establish and administer company-wide policies and processes to protect the health, safety, and security of our employees, subcontractors, and all those who visit our facilities, and to comply with applicable regulations. We review and monitor our performance closely to drive improvement. To help us evaluate how effective our safety efforts are in lowering incidents rates, we use a Total Recordable Incident Rate ( TRIR ). TRIR is a medical incident rate based on the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) record-keeping criteria (injuries per 200,000 hours). Our TRIR globally was 0.53 in 2023 and 2022. Our global LiveWell program focuses on four wellbeing elements physical, emotional, financial, and social health and provides specific programs and resources to support our employees and their families within each of these areas. Learning and Development: Through Kraft Heinz Ownerversity, we provide learning opportunities for each of our employees, designed to inspire and grow talent within Kraft Heinz while developing employees capabilities to help them navigate their career journey. Our learning and development offerings are created to enable employees to live our Value We dare to do better every day and own their personal learning and development. We believe this empowers employees to execute with excellence in their current role, accelerate their learning curve, and grow a great career. Through Ownerversity, employees have access to custom Kraft Heinz training, learning and development materials, and external content libraries and articles. Rewards and Compensation: Our Total Rewards philosophy is to provide a meaningful and flexible spectrum of programs that equitably support our diverse workforce and their families. Total Rewa