Item 1. Business 4 Item 1A. Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 23 Item 2. Properties 24 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 25 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 25 PART II 26 Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 26 Item 6. Reserved 28 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 44 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B. Other Information 45 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 45 PART III 46 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 46 Item 11. Executive Compensation 46 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 46 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 46 PART IV 47 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 47 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 47 2 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report on Form 10-K ( Form 10-K ), together with other statements and information publicly disseminated by the Company, contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ). The Company intends such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes this statement for purposes of complying with the safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe the Company s future plans, strategies and expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words believe, expect, intend, commit, anticipate, estimate, project, will, target, plan, forecast or similar expressions. You should not rely on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which, in some cases, are beyond the Company s control and could materially affect actual results, performances or achievements. Factors which may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, (i) general adverse economic and local real estate conditions, (ii) the impact of competition, including the availability of acquisition or development opportunities and the costs associated with purchasing and maintaining assets; (iii) the inability of major tenants to continue paying their rent obligations due to bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in their business, (iv) the reduction in the Company s income in the event of multiple lease terminations by tenants or a failure of multiple tenants to occupy their premises in a shopping center, (v) the potential impact of e-commerce and other changes in consumer buying practices, and changing trends in the retail industry and perceptions by retailers or shoppers, including safety and convenience, (vi) the availability of suitable acquisition, disposition, development and redevelopment opportunities, and the costs associated with purchasing and maintaining assets and risks related to acquisitions not performing in accordance with our expectations, (vii) the Company s ability to raise capital by selling its assets, (viii) disruptions and increases in operating costs due to inflation and supply chain disruptions, (ix) risks associated with the development of mixed-use commercial properties, including risks associated with the development, and ownership of non-retail real estate, (x) changes in governmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, changes in data privacy, environmental (including climate change), safety and health laws, and management s ability to estimate the impact of such changes, (xi) the Company s failure to realize the expected benefits of the merger with RPT Realty ( RPT Merger ), (xii) significant transaction costs and/or unknown or inestimable liabilities related to the RPT Merger, (xiii) the risk of litigation, including shareholder litigation, in connection with the RPT Merger, including any resulting expense, (xiv) the ability to successfully integrate the operations of the Company and RPT and the risk that such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, (xv) risks related to future opportunities and plans for the combined company, including the uncertainty of expected future financial performance and results of the combined company, (xvi) effects relating to the RPT Merger on relationships with tenants, employees, joint venture partners and third parties, (xvii) the possibility that, if the Company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the RPT Merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors, the market price of the Company s common stock could decline, (xviii) valuation and risks related to the Company s joint venture and preferred equity investments and other investments, (xix) valuation of marketable securities, (xx) impairment charges, (xxi) criminal cybersecurity attacks disruption, data loss or other security incidents and breaches, (xxii) risks related to artificial intelligence, (xxiii) impact of natural disasters and weather and climate-related events, (xxiv) pandemics or other health crises, such as coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ), (xxv) our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, (xxvi) financing risks, such as the inability to obtain equity, debt or other sources of financing or refinancing on favorable terms to the Company, (xxvii) the level and volatility of interest rates and management s ability to estimate the impact thereof, (xxviii) changes in the dividend policy for the Company s common and preferred stock and the Company s ability to pay dividends at current levels, (xxix) unanticipated changes in the Company s intention or ability to prepay certain debt prior to maturity and/or hold certain securities until maturity, (xxx) the Company s ability to continue to maintain its status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes and potential risks and uncertainties in connection with its UPREIT structure, and (xxxi) other risks and uncertainties identified under Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the Company s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company s expectations will be realized. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised to refer to any further disclosures the Company makes or related subjects in the Company s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that the Company files with the SEC. Certain forward-looking and other statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or other locations, such as our corporate website, contain various environmental, social, and governance ( ESG ) standards and frameworks (including standards for the measurement of underlying data) and the interests of various stakeholders. As such, such information may not, and should not be interpreted as necessarily being, material under the federal securities laws for SEC reporting purposes, even if we use the word material or materiality in this document. ESG information is also often reliant on third-party information or methodologies that are subject to evolving expectations and best practices, and our approach to and discussion of these matters may continue to evolve as well. For example, our disclosures may change due to revisions in framework requirements, availability of information, changes in our business or applicable governmental policies, or other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview The Company is North America s largest publicly traded owner and operator of open-air, grocery-anchored shopping centers and a growing portfolio of mixed-use assets. The Company s mission is to create destinations for everyday living that inspire a sense of community and deliver value to our many stakeholders. The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and, in 1985, the operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company completed its initial public stock offering (the IPO ) in November 1991, and, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance with Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ). To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet several organizational and operational requirements and is required to annually distribute at least 90% of its net taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, the Company will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes less than 100% of its net taxable income, including any net capital gains. In January of 2023, the Company consummated the Reorganization into an UPREIT structure as described in the Explanatory Note at the beginning of this Annual Report. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income, as defined in the Code. The Company maintains certain subsidiaries that made joint elections with the Company to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries ( TRSs ). This permits the Company to engage in certain business activities that a REIT may not conduct directly, by conducting such business activities through such TRSs. A TRS is subject to federal and state taxes on its income, and the Company includes a provision for taxes in its consolidated financial statements. In 1994, the Predecessor reorganized as a Maryland corporation. In March 2006, the Predecessor was added to the S P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap companies, most of which are U.S. corporations. The Company's common stock, Class L Depositary Shares, Class M Depositary Shares, and Class N Depositary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the trading symbols KIM , KIMprL , KIMprM , and KIMprN , respectively. The Company is a self-administered REIT and has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection with the operation of its properties. The Company s ownership interests in real estate consist of its consolidated portfolio and portfolios where the Company owns an economic interest, such as properties in the Company s investment real estate management programs, where the Company partners with institutional investors and also retains management. The Company began to expand its operations through the development of real estate and the construction of shopping centers but revised its growth strategy to focus on the acquisition and redevelopment of existing shopping centers that include a grocery component. Additionally, the Company developed various residential and mixed-use operating properties and continues to obtain entitlements to embark on additional projects of this nature through re-development opportunities. The Company has implemented its investment real estate management format through the establishment of various institutional joint venture programs, in which the Company has noncontrolling interests. The Company earns management fees, acquisition fees, disposition fees as well as promoted interests based on achieving certain performance metrics. In addition, the Company has capitalized on its established expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company has also provided preferred equity capital to real estate professionals and, from time to time, provides real estate capital, financing and management services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company has also made selective investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in management s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying assets, however, these investments are subject to volatility within the equity and debt markets. As described in greater detail in the Explanatory Note to this Form 10-K, (i) on January 1, 2023, as a result of the Reorganization, the Parent Company, a Maryland corporation, became the successor issuer to the Predecessor, and (ii) on January 3, 2023, the Predecessor converted into Kimco OP, a limited liability company, organized in the State of Delaware. At December 31, 2023, the Parent Company is the managing member of Kimco OP and owns 100% of the limited liability company interests of, and exercises exclusive control over, Kimco OP. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had interests in 523 shopping center properties (the Combined Shopping Center Portfolio ), aggregating 89.7 million square feet of gross leasable area ( GLA ), located in 28 states. In addition, the Company had 21 other property interests, primarily through the Company s preferred equity investments and other investments, totaling 5.5 million square feet of GLA. 4 Table of Contents RPT Merger On August 28, 2023, the Company and RPT Realty ( RPT ) announced that they had entered into a definitive merger agreement (the Merger Agreement ) pursuant to which the Company would acquire RPT through a series of mergers (collectively, the RPT Merger ). On January 2, 2024, RPT merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving public company. The RPT Merger added 56 open-air shopping centers, 43 of which are wholly owned and 13 of which are owned through a joint venture, comprising 13.3 million square feet of GLA, to the Company s existing portfolio of 523 properties. In addition, pursuant to the RPT Merger, the Company obtained RPT s 6% stake in a 49-property net lease joint venture. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each RPT common share was converted into 0.6049 of a newly issued share of the Company s common stock, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares, and each 7.25% Series D Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Share of RPT was converted into the right to receive one depositary share representing one one-thousandth of a share of the Company s 7.25% Class N Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the Class N Preferred Stock ). In connection with the RPT Merger, the Company issued 53.0 million shares of common stock, 1.8 million shares of Class N Preferred Stock, and 953,400 OP Units. See Footnote 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the RPT Merger. Economic Conditions The economy continues to face several issues, including inflation risk, liquidity constraints, lack of qualified employees, tenant bankruptcies and supply chain disruptions, which could impact the Company and its tenants. In response to the rising rate of inflation, the Federal Reserve steadily increased interest rates and has kept them at elevated levels. The Federal Reserve may continue to increase interest rates or maintain these elevated levels, until the rate of inflation begins to decrease. These elevated interest rates could adversely impact the business and financial results of the Company and its tenants. In addition, slower economic growth and the potential for a recession could have an adverse effect on the Company and its tenants. This could negatively affect the overall demand for retail space, including the demand for leasable space in the Company s properties. Any of these events could materially adversely impact the Company s business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The Company continues to monitor economic, financial, and social conditions and will assess its asset portfolio for any impairment indicators. If the Company determines that any of its assets are impaired, the Company would be required to take impairment charges, and such amounts could be material. Business Objective and Strategies The Company has developed a strong nationally diversified portfolio of open-air, grocery anchored shopping centers located in drivable first-ring suburbs primarily within 18 major metropolitan sun belt and coastal markets, which are supported by strong demographics, significant projected population growth, and where the Company perceives significant barriers to entry. As of December 31, 2023, the Company derived 86% of its proportionate share of annualized base rental revenues from these top major metro markets. The Company s shopping centers provide essential, necessity-based goods and services to the local communities and are primarily anchored by a grocery store, home improvement center, off-price retailer, discounter and/or service-oriented tenant. 5 Table of Contents The Company s focus on high-quality locations has led to significant opportunities for value creation through the reinvestment in its assets to add density, replace outdated shopping center concepts, and better meet changing consumer demands. In order to add density to existing properties, the Company has obtained multi-family entitlements for 9,945 units of which 3,157 units have been constructed as of December 31, 2023. The Company continues to place strategic emphasis on live/work/play environments and in reinvesting in its existing assets, while building shareholder value. This philosophy is exemplified by the Company s Signature Series TM properties which include key value creation projects in our portfolio that exemplify our transformation and highlight our focus on quality, concentration around core metropolitan statistical areas, and/or growth through redevelopment and development opportunities. Signature Series properties also include fully entitled, shovel-ready mixed-use projects, and opportunities that we continue to identify and entitle as we seek to achieve the highest and best use of our real estate, enhance our communities, and create value for our stakeholders for years to come. The strength and security of the Company s balance sheet remains central to its strategy. The Company s strong balance sheet and liquidity position are evidenced by its investment grade unsecured debt ratings (BBB+/Baa1) by two major ratings agencies. The Company maintains one of the longest weighted average debt maturity profiles in the REIT industry, now at 8.7 years. The Company expects to continue to take steps to reduce leverage, unencumber assets and maintain its strong debt coverage metrics as mixed-use projects and redevelopments continue to come online and contribute additional cash flow growth. Business Objective The Company s primary business objective is to be the premier owner and operator of open-air, grocery-anchored shopping centers, and a growing portfolio of mixed-use assets, in the U.S. The Company believes it can achieve this objective by: increasing the value of its existing portfolio of properties and generating higher levels of portfolio growth; increasing cash flows for reinvestment and/or for distribution to shareholders while maintaining conservative payout ratios; maintaining strong debt metrics and our BBB+/Baa1 unsecured debt ratings continuing growth in desirable demographic areas with successful retailers, primarily focused on grocery anchors; and increasing the number of entitlements for residential use. 6 Table of Contents Business Strategies The Company believes it is well positioned to achieve sustainable growth, with its strong core portfolio and its recent acquisitions allowing the Company to achieve higher occupancy levels, increased rental rates and rental growth in the future. The Company identified the following components to effectively execute and achieve its strategic goals: The Company has identified the following areas where it is well positioned for sustainable growth in the future. The Company reduces its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a large tenant base. As of December 31, 2023, no single open-air shopping center accounted for more than 1.3% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest, or more than 1.4% of the Company s total shopping center GLA. Furthermore, at December 31, 2023, the Company s single largest tenant represented only 3.7%, and the Company s five largest tenants aggregated less than 11.3%, of the Company s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center industry and the nation's largest owner and operator of open-air shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with major national and regional retailers and maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous regional and local commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors who compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and other investment opportunities and in seeking tenants who will lease space in the Company s properties. The Company s executive and senior management teams are seasoned real estate operators with extensive retail and public company leadership experience. The Company s management has a deep industry knowledge and well-established relationships with retailers, brokers, and vendors through many years of operational and transactional experience, as well as significant capital markets capabilities. The Company believes that management s expertise, experience, reputation, and key relationships in the retail real estate industry provides it with a significant competitive advantage in attracting new business opportunities. 6 Table of Contents Government Regulation Compliance with various governmental regulations has an impact on our business, including our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position, which can be material. We incur costs to monitor and take actions to comply with governmental regulations that are applicable to our business, which include, among others, federal securities laws and regulations, applicable stock exchange requirements, REIT and other tax laws and regulations, environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, local zoning, usage and other regulations relating to real property and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, see