Item 1. Business 7 Item 1A. Risk Factors 42 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 126 Item 2. Properties 126 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 126 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 126 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 127 Item 6. [Reserved] 129 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 130 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 201 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 210 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 345 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 345 Item 9B. Other Information 346 Item 9C. D isclosure Regarding Forei gn Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 346 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 347 Item 11. Executive Compensation 353 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 370 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 373 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 380 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 381 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 388 SIGNATURES 389 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, our operations and financial performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "outlook," "believe," "think," "expect," "potential," "continue," "may," "should," "seek," "approximately," "predict," "intend," "will," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate," the negative version of these words, other comparable words or other statements that do not relate strictly to historical or factual matters. Without limiting the foregoing, statements regarding the declaration and payment of dividends on common or preferred stock of KKR Co. Inc.; the timing, manner and volume of repurchase of common stock pursuant to its repurchase program; expansion and growth opportunities and other synergies resulting from acquisitions, reorganizations or strategic partnerships; and the timing and completion of the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement (as defined below) may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements or cause the anticipated benefits and synergies from transactions to not be realized. We believe these factors include those described under the section entitled "Risk Factors" in this report. These factors should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this report and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. CERTAIN TERMS USED IN THIS REPORT In this report, references to "KKR," "we," "us" and "our" refer to KKR Co. Inc. and its subsidiaries, including The Global Atlantic Financial Group LLC ("TGAFG" and, together with its subsidiaries, "Global Atlantic"), unless the context requires otherwise. On February 1, 2021, KKR completed its acquisition of Global Atlantic. KKR holds all of the voting interests in Global Atlantic and owns 61.5% of the economic equity interests in Global Atlantic, following the completion of certain post-closing purchase price adjustments in the second quarter of 2021. Accordingly, the results of Global Atlantic included in our consolidated results of operations are from February 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 . Global Atlantic conducts its insurance business through its subsidiaries that are regulated insurance companies. For periods between July 1, 2018 and December 31, 2019, references to common stock refer to Class A common stock of KKR Co. Inc., and references to Series I preferred stock and Series II preferred stock refer to Class B common stock and Class C common stock of KKR Co. Inc., respectively. Prior to July 1, 2018, KKR Co. Inc. was a limited partnership named KKR Co. L.P. References to the Series I preferred stockholder or KKR Management are to KKR Management LLP, the holder of the sole outstanding share of our Series I preferred stock. References to our senior principals are to our senior employees who hold interests in the Series I preferred stockholder, including Mr. Henry Kravis and Mr. George Roberts (our "Co-Founders"). References to non-employee operating consultants for periods prior to January 1, 2020 refer to employees of KKR Capstone Americas LLC and its affiliates ( KKR Capstone ), which were then owned and controlled by their senior management and not subsidiaries or affiliates of KKR. Unless otherwise indicated, references to equity interests in KKR s business, or to percentage interests in KKR s business, reflect the aggregate equity interests in KKR Group Partnership L.P. ("KKR Group Partnership"), which is the intermediate holding company that owns the entirety of KKR s business, and are net of amounts that have been allocated to the holders of certain minority interests, including our principals and carry pool participants (who are explained further below). References to KKR Group Partnership for periods prior to January 1, 2020 refer to KKR Fund Holdings L.P., KKR Management Holdings L.P. and KKR International Holdings L.P., collectively, which were combined on that date to form KKR Group Partnership. References to a KKR Group Partnership Unit refer to (i) one Class A partner interest in each of KKR Fund Holdings L.P., KKR Management Holdings L.P. and KKR International Holdings L.P., collectively, for periods prior to prior to January 1, 2020, and (ii) one Class A partner interest in KKR Group Partnership for periods on and after January 1, 2020. References to principals are to current and former employees who hold interests in KKR s business through KKR Holdings L.P. ( KKR Holdings ). As of December 31, 2021, KKR Holdings owned, as a limited partner, 258,726,163 Group Partnership Units representing 30.2% of the then outstanding Group Partnership Units. References to principals also includes our current employees who hold interests in KKR s business through KKR Holdings II L.P. KKR Holdings II L.P. is a subsidiary of KKR Co. Inc. but has an equity ownership in KKR Group Partnership similar to KKR Holdings. As of December 31, 2021, KKR Holdings II L.P. owned, as a limited partner, less than 0.2% of the outstanding Group Partnership Units. References to carry pool participants are to our current and former employees who hold interests in our carry pool, which refers to the carried interest generated by KKR s business that is allocated to KKR Associates Holdings L.P. ( KKR Associates Holdings ), in which carry pool participants are limited partners. Neither KKR Holdings nor KKR Associates Holdings is currently a subsidiary of KKR Co. Inc. 3 Table of Contents On October 8, 2021, KKR entered into a Reorganization Agreement (the "Reorganization Agreement") with KKR Holdings, KKR Management, KKR Associates Holdings, and the other parties thereto. Pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, the parties agreed to undertake a series of integrated transactions to effect a number of transformative structural and governance changes, including (a) the acquisition by KKR of KKR Holdings and all of the KKR Group Partnership Units held by it, (b) the future elimination of voting control by KKR Management and the Series I preferred stock held by it, (c) the future establishment of voting rights for all common stock on a one vote per share basis, including with respect to the election of directors, and (d) the future control of the carry pool by KKR. For more information about the Reorganization Agreement, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Reorganization Agreement" in this report. In this report, the term "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We disclose certain financial measures in this report that are calculated and presented using methodologies other than in accordance with GAAP, including after-tax distributable earnings, distributable operating earnings, fee related earnings ("FRE"), asset management segment revenues, book value and book value per adjusted share. We believe that providing these performance measures on a supplemental basis to our GAAP results is helpful to stockholders in assessing the overall performance of KKR's businesses. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for similar financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. We caution readers that these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculations of other investment managers, and as a result, may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other investment managers. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, where applicable, are included under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reconciliations to GAAP Measures." This report also uses the terms assets under management ("AUM"), fee paying assets under management ("FPAUM") and capital invested. You should note that our calculations of these and other operating metrics may differ from the calculations of other investment managers and, as a result, may not be comparable to similar metrics presented by other investment managers. These non-GAAP and operating metrics are defined in the section "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Non-GAAP Performance Measures and Other Operating Measures." References to our "funds" or our "vehicles" refer to investment funds, vehicles and accounts that are advised, managed or sponsored by one or more subsidiaries of KKR, including collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs") and commercial real estate mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") vehicles, unless the context requires otherwise. They do not include investment funds, vehicles or accounts of any hedge fund or other manager with which we have formed a strategic partnership where we have acquired an ownership interest. References to strategic investor partnerships refers to separately managed accounts with certain investors, which have investment periods longer than our traditional funds and typically provide for investments across different investment strategies. References to hedge fund partnerships refers to strategic partnerships with third-party hedge fund managers in which KKR owns a minority stake. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to our outstanding common stock on a fully exchanged and diluted basis reflect (i) actual shares of common stock outstanding, (ii) shares of common stock into which KKR Group Partnership Units held by KKR Holdings are exchangeable pursuant to the terms of the exchange agreement described elsewhere in this report, (iii) shares of common stock into which all outstanding shares of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible, and (iv) shares of common stock issuable pursuant to any equity awards actually granted from the Amended and Restated KKR Co. Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2010 Equity Incentive Plan") or the Amended and Restated KKR Co. Inc. 2019 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2019 Equity Incentive Plan" and, together with the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, our "Equity Incentive Plans"), including equity awards comprised of units in KKR Holdings II L.P. Our outstanding common stock on a fully exchanged and diluted basis does not include shares of common stock available for issuance pursuant to the Equity Incentive Plans for which equity awards have not yet been granted. The use of any defined term in this report to mean more than one entity, person, security or other item collectively is solely for convenience of reference and in no way implies that such entities, persons, securities or other items are one indistinguishable group. For example, notwithstanding the use of the defined terms "KKR," "we" and "our" in this report to refer to KKR Co. Inc. and its subsidiaries, each subsidiary of KKR Co. Inc. is a standalone legal entity that is separate and distinct from KKR Co. Inc. and any of its other subsidiaries. Any KKR entity (including any Global Atlantic entity) referenced herein is responsible for its own financial, contractual and legal obligations. 4 Table of Contents SUMMARY RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the risk factors associated with investing in our securities. You should read this summary together with a more detailed description of these risks in the "Risk Factors" section of this report and in other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC. We are subject to risks related to our business, including risks involving: difficult market and economic conditions; disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; changes in the debt financing markets ; transition away from the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") as a benchmark reference for interest rates; significant liquidity requirements and sources of liquidity; "clawback" provisions in our governing agreements; increased risks related to strategic investor partnerships; use of the term perpetual capital; high variability in our earnings and cash flow; decline in the pace or size of investment by our funds; inability to raise additional or successor funds at all or at a comparable size to predecessor funds; less favorable economic terms of our future funds; intense competition in the investment management business; increasing focus by stakeholders on environmental, social and governance matters; changes in relevant tax laws, regulations and treaties or adverse interpretations by tax authorities; our dependence on our founders and other key personnel; recruiting, retaining and motivating our employees and other key personnel; operational risks, cyber-security failures and data security breaches; entering into new lines of business and expansion into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses; complexities of new investment strategies, markets and businesses; sponsoring a special purpose acquisition company ("SPAC"); ability to syndicate the securities or indebtedness and realize returns on investments financed with our balance sheet; extensive regulation of our businesses; increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory change; complex regulations affecting capital raising activities; federal, state and foreign anti-corruption and trade sanctions laws; litigation allegations and negative publicity; certain types of investment vehicles with increased risk of litigation and regulatory scrutiny; misconduct of our employees, consultants or sub-contractors or by our portfolio companies; our capital markets activities; and use of third-party service providers. We are subject to risks related to assets we manage, including risks involving: historical returns not being indicative of future results; valuation methodologies; various economic conditions and events outside our control; dependence on significant leverage in investments; limitation inherent in the due diligence process; investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets; risks inherent in our investments including risks specific to real assets and growth equity investments; investments in real assets, such as real estate, infrastructure and energy, and emerging and less established companies; failure to protect intellectual property rights; investments in high-yield, below investment grade or unrated debt or in companies in distress; investments involving business, regulatory, legal or other complexities; large size of our private equity and real assets investments; investments in companies that we do not control; investments in companies that are based outside of the United States; third-party investors' contractual obligation to fund capital calls; ranking of our equity and debt investments compared to investments made by others; hedging transactions and other risk management activities undertaken by us; concentration of investments by our funds or by our balance sheet; 5 Table of Contents conflicts of interest between our businesses and our clients; redemption by fund investors in certain of our real asset funds; termination of our investment advisory arrangements; and our hedge fund partnerships. We are subject to risks related to our common stock, including risks involving: significant voting power held by the Series I preferred stockholder; exemptions available to us as a "controlled company" under the NYSE corporate governance rules; exemptions from proxy rules under U.S. securities laws; provisions in our certificate of incorporation limiting the obligation and liability of the Series I preferred stockholder; exclusive forum provision included in our certificate of incorporation; volatility of market price and trading volume of our common stock; assets and revenues of our funds not being directly available to us or our common stockholders; large number of shares eligible for future sale or for exchange and issuable as grants or in acquisitions; ability to issue preferred stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline; and our right to repurchase all outstanding shares of common stock under specific circumstances. We are subject to risks related to our organizational structure, including risks involving: potential conflicts of interest among the Series I preferred stockholder and our common stockholders; certain actions by our board of directors requiring the approval of the Series I preferred stockholder; limitations on our ability to pay periodic dividends; our obligations to pay under tax receivable agreement; potential application of restrictions under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the "Investment Company Act"); reorganizations undertaken by us; and anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents. We are subject to risks related to Global Atlantic, including risks involving: possibility of not achieving the intended benefit of the acquisition; inclusion of Global Atlantic as our consolidated subsidiary; interest rate fluctuations and sustained periods of low or high interest rates; use of derivative financial instruments in risk management strategy; competitiveness of the insurance industry; dependence on third-party service providers, including distribution partners and agents; guarantees within certain of Global Atlantic's products; volatility in its net income under GAAP; acceleration of amortization of deferred revenues and expenses; difference between policyholder behavior estimates, reserve assumptions and actual claim experience; estimates used in preparation of financial statements and models for insurance products; ability to execute Global Atlantic's growth strategies successfully; any gaps in Global Atlantic's risk management policies and procedures; Global Atlantic's actual or perceived financial strength and ratings of Global Atlantic and its insurance subsidiaries; failure to comply with covenants in credit facilities or agreements; lack of captive or proprietary distribution or direct sale; businesses Global Atlantic reinsures and business it cedes to reinsurers; natural and man-made disasters and other catastrophes; protection of confidentiality of client information; changes in accounting standards; ability to cover policyholder benefits, withdrawals, recaptures or collateralization requirements; reinsurance assets held in trust, which limits Global Atlantic's ability to invest those assets; reinsurance agreements that permit the reinsurance client to recapture some or all of the reinsurance portfolio; determination of the amount of impairments and allowances for credit losses; Global Atlantic's membership in Federal Home Loan Banks; repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions that subject Global Atlantic to liquidity risks; applicability of the U.S. federal income taxes, changes to U.S. tax laws or Global Atlantic's tax status in Bermuda; and insurance and other regulations, including those related to statutory accounting rules, reserves, guaranty association laws and licensing requirements, that apply to Global Atlantic and its insurance subsidiaries. 6 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading global investment firm that offers alternative asset management as well as capital markets and insurance solutions. We aim to generate attractive investment returns by following a patient and disciplined investment approach, employing world-class people, and supporting growth in our portfolio companies and communities. We sponsor investment funds that invest in private equity, credit and real assets and have strategic partners that manage hedge funds. Our insurance subsidiaries offer retirement, life and reinsurance products under the management of Global Atlantic. Our asset management business offers a broad range of investment management services to fund investors around the world. Throughout our history, we have consistently been a leader in the private equity industry, having completed more than 650 private equity investments in portfolio companies with a total transaction value in excess of $675 billion as of December 31, 2021. Since the inception of our firm in 1976, we have expanded our investment strategies and product offerings from traditional private equity to areas such as leveraged credit, alternative credit, infrastructure, energy, real estate, growth equity, core and impact investments. We also provide capital markets services for our firm, our portfolio companies and third parties. Our balance sheet provides a significant source of capital in the growth and expansion of our business, and it has allowed us to further align our interests with those of our fund investors. Building on these efforts and leveraging our industry expertise and intellectual capital have allowed us to capitalize on a broader range of the opportunities we source. Our insurance business is operated by Global Atlantic, in which we acquired a majority controlling interest on February 1, 2021. Global Atlantic is a leading U.S. retirement and life insurance company that provides a broad suite of protection, legacy and savings products and reinsurance solutions to clients across individual and institutional markets. Global Atlantic primarily offers individuals fixed-rate annuities, fixed-indexed annuities and targeted life products through a network of banks, broker-dealers and independent marketing organizations. Global Atlantic provides its institutional clients customized reinsurance solutions, including block, flow and pension risk transfer reinsurance, as well as funding agreements. Global Atlantic primarily generates income by earning a spread between its investment income and the cost of policyholder benefits. As of December 31, 2021, Global Atlantic served approximately three million policyholders. Our Firm We seek to work proactively and collaboratively across business lines, departments, and geographies, as appropriate, to achieve what we believe are the best investment results for our clients and the firm. Through our offices around the world, we have a pre-eminent global integrated platform for sourcing transactions, raising capital and carrying out capital markets activities. We have multilingual and multicultural investment teams with local market knowledge and significant business, investment and operational experience in the countries in which we invest. We believe that our global capabilities and one-firm philosophy have helped us to raise capital, capture a greater number of investment opportunities, and assist our portfolio companies in their increasing reliance on global markets and sourcing, while enabling us to diversify our operations. Though our operations span multiple continents and asset classes, our investment professionals are supported by an integrated infrastructure and operate under a common set of principles and business practices that are monitored by a variety of committees. Our investment teams operate with a single culture that rewards investment discipline, creativity, determination and patience and emphasizes the sharing of information, resources, expertise and best practices across offices and asset classes. When appropriate, we staff investment transactions across multiple offices and businesses in order to take advantage of the industry-specific expertise of our investment professionals, and we hold regular meetings in which investment professionals throughout our offices share their knowledge and experiences. We believe that the ability to draw on the local cultural fluency of our investment professionals while maintaining a centralized and integrated global infrastructure distinguishes us from other investment firms and has been a substantial contributing factor to our ability to raise funds, invest internationally and expand our businesses. 7 Table of Contents Our Business We operate in two segments, our asset management business and, beginning in the first quarter of 2021, our insurance business. Asset Management In our asset management business, we have four business lines: (1) Private Markets, (2) Public Markets, (3) Capital Markets, and (4) Principal Activities. Information about our business lines below should be read together with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. As an asset management firm, we earn fees, including incentive fees, and carried interest for providing investment management and other services to our funds, vehicles, CLOs, managed accounts and portfolio companies, and we generate transaction-specific income from capital markets transactions. We earn additional investment income by investing our own capital alongside that of our fund investors and from other assets on our balance sheet. Carried interest we receive from our funds and certain other investment vehicles entitles us to a specified percentage of investment gains that are generated on third-party capital that is invested. Our investment teams have deep industry knowledge and are supported by a substantial and diversified capital base; an integrated global investment platform; the expertise of operating professionals, senior advisors and other advisors; and a worldwide network of business relationships that provide a significant source of investment opportunities, specialized knowledge during due diligence and substantial resources for creating and realizing value for stakeholders. These teams invest capital, a substantial portion of which is of a long duration or not subject to predetermined redemption requirements, which provides us with significant flexibility to grow investments and select exit opportunities. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 90% of our AUM consists of capital that is not subject to redemption for at least 8 years from inception and what we refer to as perpetual capital. For more information about the limitations of perpetual capital, please see "Risks Related to Our Business AUM referred to as perpetual capital is subject to material reduction, including through withdrawal, redemption, or dividends, and termination." We believe that these aspects of our business help us continue to grow our asset management business and deliver strong investment performance in a variety of economic and financial conditions. Since our inception, one of our fundamental investment philosophies has been to align the interests of the firm and our employees with the interests of our fund investors, portfolio companies and other stakeholders. We achieve this by putting our own capital behind our ideas. As of December 31, 2021, we and our employees and other personnel have approximately $26.9 billion invested in or committed to our own funds and portfolio companies, including $11.1 billion of capital funded from our balance sheet, $11.9 billion of additional capital committed by our balance sheet to our investment funds, $2.8 billion funded from personal investments, and $1.1 billion of additional capital commitments from personal investments. Private Markets Through our Private Markets business line, we manage and sponsor a group of private equity funds that invest capital for long-term appreciation, either through controlling ownership of a company or strategic minority positions. In addition to our traditional private equity funds that invest in large and mid-sized companies, we sponsor investment funds that invest in core equity, growth equity, and impact investments. We also manage and sponsor investment funds that invest capital in real assets, such as infrastructure, real estate, and energy. Our Private Markets business line includes separately managed accounts that invest in multiple strategies, which may include our credit strategies as well as our private equity and real assets strategies. These funds and accounts are managed by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P., an SEC-registered investment adviser. As of December 31, 2021, our Private Markets business line had $257.0 billion of AUM, consisting of $153.3 bil