Item 1. Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 46 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 127 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 127 Item 2. Properties 128 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 128 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 128 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 129 Item 6. [Reserved] 130 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 131 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 214 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 224 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 372 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 372 Item 9B. Other Information 373 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 373 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 374 Item 11. Executive Compensation 381 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 396 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 398 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 405 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 406 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 418 SIGNATURES 419 2 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), which reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, our operations and financial performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "outlook," "believe," "think," "expect," "potential," "continue," "may," "should," "seek," "approximately," "predict," "intend," "will," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate," the negative version of these words, other comparable words or other statements that do not relate strictly to historical or factual matters. Without limiting the foregoing, statements regarding the declaration and payment of dividends on common or preferred stock of KKR Co. Inc.; the timing, manner and volume of repurchase of common stock pursuant to its repurchase program; expansion and growth opportunities and other synergies resulting from acquisitions, reorganizations or strategic partnerships; the return of balance sheet capital if a fund has a successful fundraise; investment opportunities offered to individual investors to continue to grow and to represent a larger percentage of our assets under management; the estimate of the amounts expected to be owed under the tax receivable agreement; the ability of core private equity investments to generate earnings that compound over a long period of time; the timing and completion of certain transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement (as defined below); and the implementation, growth and synergies relating to the strategic initiatives previously announced on November 29, 2023 may constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual outcomes or results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements or cause the anticipated benefits and synergies from transactions to not be realized. We believe these factors include those described in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (our "Annual Report" or "report"). These factors should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this report and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. CERTAIN TERMS USED IN THIS REPORT In this report, references to "KKR," "we," "us" and "our" refer to KKR Co. Inc. and its subsidiaries, including The Global Atlantic Financial Group LLC ("TGAFG" and, together with its insurance companies and other subsidiaries, "Global Atlantic"), unless the context requires otherwise. References to the Series I preferred stockholder or KKR Management are to KKR Management LLP, the holder of the sole outstanding share of our Series I preferred stock. References to our senior principals are to our senior employees who hold interests in the Series I preferred stockholder, including Mr. Henry Kravis and Mr. George Roberts (our "Co-Founders"). References to "principals" are to our current and former employees who formerly held interests in KKR Holdings L.P. ("KKR Holdings"), which we acquired on May 31, 2022, pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, as discussed below. References to carry pool participants are to our current and former employees who hold interests in our carry pool, which refers to the carried interest generated by KKR s business that is allocated to KKR Associates Holdings L.P. ( Associates Holdings ), in which carry pool participants are limited partners. Associates Holdings is currently not a subsidiary of KKR Co. Inc. KKR Group Partnership L.P. ("KKR Group Partnership") is the intermediate holding company that owns the entirety of KKR s business. Unless otherwise indicated, references to equity interests in KKR s business, or to percentage interests in KKR s business, reflect the aggregate equity interests in KKR Group Partnership, and are net of amounts that have been allocated to carry pool participants and any other holders of minority interests in KKR Group Partnership. References to KKR Group Partnership for periods prior to January 1, 2020 refer to KKR Fund Holdings L.P., KKR Management Holdings L.P. and KKR International Holdings L.P., collectively, which were combined on that date to form KKR Group Partnership. References to a KKR Group Partnership Unit refer to (i) one Class A partner interest in each of KKR Fund Holdings L.P., KKR Management Holdings L.P. and KKR International Holdings L.P., collectively, for periods prior to prior to January 1, 2020, and (ii) one Class A partner interest in KKR Group Partnership for periods on and after January 1, 2020. Exchangeable securities refers to securities that have the right to acquire KKR Group Partnership Units and to exchange them for our shares of common stock. As of the date of this report, our only outstanding exchangeable securities are (i) restricted holdings units issued through KKR Holdings II L.P. ("KKR Holdings II"), which are issued under the Amended and Restated KKR Co. Inc. 2019 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2019 Equity Incentive Plan"), and (ii) restricted holdings units issued through KKR Holdings III L.P. ("KKR Holdings III"), which are not issued under the 2019 Equity Incentive Plan and are currently held by certain Global Atlantic employees who received 2.6 million units (a majority of which are unvested) in connection with the January 2, 2024 transaction described below. In the future, we may issue securities other than restricted holdings units that may constitute exchangeable securities. 3 Table of Contents On October 8, 2021, KKR entered into a Reorganization Agreement (the "Reorganization Agreement") with KKR Holdings, KKR Management, Associates Holdings, and the other parties thereto. Pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, the parties agreed to undertake a series of integrated transactions to effect a number of transformative structural and governance changes, including (a) the acquisition by KKR of KKR Holdings and all of the KKR Group Partnership Units held by it (which as noted below was completed), (b) the future elimination of voting control by KKR Management and the Series I preferred stock held by it, (c) the future establishment of voting rights for all common stock on a one vote per share basis, including with respect to the election of directors, and (d) the future control of the carry pool by KKR. On May 31, 2022, KKR completed the acquisition of KKR Holdings and the 258.3 million KKR Group Partnership Units held by it, and in exchange KKR issued and delivered 266.8 million shares of common stock to our principals. On the "Sunset Date" (which will occur no later than December 31, 2026), KKR will cancel the Series I preferred stock, establish voting rights for all common stock on a one vote per share basis, and acquire control of the carry pool. For more information about the Reorganization Agreement, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Reorganization Agreement" in this report. KKR s asset management business is conducted by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P. and various other subsidiaries of KKR Co. Inc. other than Global Atlantic. KKR s insurance business is operated by Global Atlantic, which KKR acquired a majority controlling interest in on February 1, 2021 ("2021 GA Acquisition"). On January 2, 2024 KKR acquired all the remaining equity interests in Global Atlantic that KKR did not already own. As of January 2, 2024, KKR owns 100.0% of Global Atlantic. KJR Management ("KJRM") is a Japanese real estate asset manager, which KKR acquired on April 28, 2022. References to our "funds," "vehicles" or "investment vehicles" refer to a wide array of investment funds, vehicles and accounts that are advised, managed or sponsored by one or more subsidiaries of KKR, including collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs") and business development companies (each, a "BDC"), unless the context requires otherwise. These references do not include the investment funds, vehicles or accounts of any hedge fund partnership or any other third-party asset manager with which we have formed a strategic partnership or have acquired a minority ownership interest. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to fund investors or "investors in our investment vehicles" refers to the third-party investors in these funds and investment vehicles. References to strategic investor partnerships refers to separately managed accounts with certain investors, which typically have investment periods longer than our traditional funds and typically provide for investments across different investment strategies. References to hedge fund partnerships refers to strategic partnerships with third-party hedge fund managers in which KKR owns a minority stake. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this report to our outstanding common stock on a fully exchanged and diluted basis reflect (i) actual shares of common stock outstanding, (ii) shares of common stock into which all outstanding shares of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock were convertible (for periods prior to the date of its mandatory redemption, which occurred in September 2023), and (iii) shares of common stock issuable pursuant to equity awards actually granted pursuant to the Amended and Restated KKR Co. Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2010 Equity Incentive Plan" and, together with the 2019 Equity Incentive Plan, our "Equity Incentive Plans"). Our outstanding common stock on a fully exchanged and diluted basis does not include shares of common stock available for issuance pursuant to the Equity Incentive Plans for which equity awards have not yet been granted. In this report, the term "GAAP" refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We disclose certain financial measures in this report that are calculated and presented using methodologies other than in accordance with GAAP, including after-tax distributable earnings, distributable operating earnings, fee related earnings ("FRE"), asset management segment revenues, book value and book value per adjusted share. We believe that providing these performance measures on a supplemental basis to our GAAP results is helpful to stockholders in assessing the overall performance of KKR's businesses. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as a substitute for similar financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. We caution readers that these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculations of other investment managers, and as a result, may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other investment managers. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, where applicable, are included under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Balance Sheet Measures Reconciliations to GAAP Measures." This report also uses the terms assets under management ("AUM"), fee paying assets under management ("FPAUM") and capital invested. You should note that our calculations of these and other operating metrics may differ from the calculations of other investment managers and, as a result, may not be comparable to similar metrics presented by other investment managers. These non-GAAP and operating metrics are defined in the section "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Segment and Non-GAAP Performance Measures Other Terms and Capital Metrics." 4 Table of Contents The use of any defined term in this report to mean more than one entity, person, security or other item collectively is solely for convenience of reference and in no way implies that such entities, persons, securities or other items are one indistinguishable group. For example, notwithstanding the use of the defined terms "KKR," "we" and "our" in this report to refer to KKR Co. Inc. and its subsidiaries, each subsidiary of KKR Co. Inc. is a standalone legal entity that is separate and distinct from KKR Co. Inc. and any of its other subsidiaries. Any KKR entity (including any Global Atlantic entity) referenced herein is responsible for its own financial, contractual and legal obligations. Additionally, references to "including" are for the purpose of illustration and shall be read to mean "including without limitation" unless the context explicitly requires otherwise. 5 Table of Contents SUMMARY RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the risk factors associated with investing in our securities. You should read this summary together with a more detailed description of these risks in the Risk Factors section of this report and in other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC. We are subject to risks related to our business, including risks involving: difficult market and economic conditions; geopolitical developments and other local and global events; disruptions caused by natural disasters, catastrophes, or potential changes in climate conditions; significant liquidity requirements and sources of liquidity; assets we refer to as perpetual capital being subject to material reduction; high variability in earnings and cash flow; clawback provisions in our governing agreements; inability to raise additional or successor funds successfully; intense competition in the investment management and insurance industries; increasing focus by stakeholders on ESG matters; changes in relevant tax laws, regulations and treaties or adverse interpretations by tax authorities; recruiting, retaining and motivating our employees and other key personnel; our reliance on third-party service providers; cybersecurity failures and data security breaches; the unpredictable impact of artificial intelligence on competitive, operational, legal and regulatory risks; rapidly developing and changing global privacy laws; expansion into new investment strategies, geographic markets, businesses and types of investors; failure to manage existing commitments; extensive regulation of our businesses; litigation and negative publicity; certain types of investment vehicles with increased risk of litigation and regulatory scrutiny; our capital markets activities; and ineffective risk management activities. We are subject to risks related to our investment activities, including risks involving: historical returns not being indicative of future results; valuation methodologies for establishing the fair value of certain assets can be subjective; the impact on valuations by market and economic conditions; changes in debt or equity markets; dependence on significant leverage in our investments; exposures to, and investments in, leveraged companies or companies experiencing financial or business difficulties; ranking of our equity and debt investments compared to other s investments, exposing us to greater risk of loss; limitations inherent in the due diligence process; complexity of investments, including large-sized investments and non-controlled investments; concentration of investments by type of issuer, geographic region, asset types, or otherwise; investments in relatively illiquid assets; investments in real assets; investments in emerging and less established companies; investments in companies that are based outside of the United States; third-party investors contractual obligation to fund capital calls; potential conflicts of interest between our business and our clients; investors in certain of our investment vehicles are entitled to redeem their investments in these vehicles on a periodic basis, and certain of our investment advisory agreements may be terminated with minimal notice; and our stakes in hedge fund partnerships. We are subject to risks related to our insurance activities, including risks involving: possibility of not achieving the intended benefit of the Global Atlantic acquisitions; 6 Table of Contents interest rate fluctuations, including sustained periods of low or high interest rates; acceleration of amortization of deferred revenues and expenses; difference between policyholder behavior estimates, reserve assumptions and actual claims experience; estimates used in preparation of financial statements and models for insurance products; ability to execute Global Atlantic s growth strategies successfully; Global Atlantic s actual or perceived financial strength and ratings of Global Atlantic and its subsidiaries; business Global Atlantic reinsures and business it cedes to reinsurers; changes in accounting standards applicable to insurance companies; volatility in our insurance business s net income under GAAP; reinsurance assets held in trust, which limit Global Atlantic s ability to invest those assets; triggering a recapture event under reinsurance agreements where Global Atlantic s clients may recapture some or all of the assumed business; determination of the amount of impairments and allowances for credit losses; liquidity risks from Global Atlantic s membership in Federal Home Loan Banks; repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions that subject Global Atlantic to liquidity risks; changes in relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties; regulations, including those related to capital requirements, that apply to Global Atlantic; Bermuda insurance subsidiaries possibly being subject to additional licensing requirements; and not being able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with statutory accounting rules. We are subject to risks related to our organizational structure, including risks involving: significant voting power held by the Series I preferred stockholder, and conflicts of interest among the Series I preferred stockholder and the holders of our common stock; As a controlled company, we qualify for some exemptions from the corporate governance and other requirements of the NYSE and are not required to comply with certain provisions of U.S. securities laws; provisions in our charter limiting the liability of the Series I preferred stockholder; exclusive forum provision included in our charter; assets and revenues of our investment vehicles not being directly available to us or our common stockholders; declining common stock price due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and issuable as grants or in acquisitions; ability to issue preferred stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline; our right to repurchase all outstanding shares of common stock under specified circumstances; limitations on our ability to pay periodic dividends; our obligations to make payments to our principals pursuant to a tax receivable agreement; potential application of restrictions under the Investment Company Act of 1940; reorganizations undertaken by us; and anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents. 7 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading global investment firm that offers alternative asset management as well as capital markets and insurance solutions. We aim to generate attractive investment returns by following a patient and disciplined investment approach, employing world-class people, and supporting growth in our portfolio companies and communities. We sponsor investment funds that invest in private equity, credit and real assets and have strategic partners that manage hedge funds. Our insurance subsidiaries offer retirement, life and reinsurance products under the management of Global Atlantic. Our asset management business offers a broad range of investment management services to fund investors around the world. Throughout our history, we have consistently been a leader in the private equity industry, having completed more than 730 private equity investments in portfolio companies with a total transaction value in excess of $710 billion as of December 31, 2023. Since the inception of our firm in 1976, we have expanded our investment strategies and product offerings from traditional private equity to areas such as leveraged credit, alternative credit, infrastructure, energy, real estate, growth equity, core private equity, and impact investments. We also provide capital markets services for our firm, our portfolio companies and third parties. Our balance sheet provides a significant source of capital in the growth and expansion of our business, and it has allowed us to further align our interests with those of our investment vehicle investors. Building on these efforts and leveraging our industry expertise and intellectual capital have allowed us to capitalize on a broader range of the opportunities we source. Our insurance business is operated by Global Atlantic, in which we acquired a majority controlling interest on February 1, 2021 and the remaining equity interests in Global Atlantic that KKR did not already own on January 2, 2024. Global Atlantic is a leading retirement and life insurance company that provides a broad suite of protection, legacy and savings products and reinsurance solutions to clients across individual and institutional markets. Global Atlantic primarily offers individuals fixed-rate annuities, fixed-indexed annuities and targeted life products through a network of banks, broker-dealers and independent marketing organizations. Global Atlantic provides its institutional clients customized reinsurance solutions, including block, flow and pension risk transfer reinsurance, as well as funding agreements. Global Atlantic primarily generates income by earning a spread between its investment income and the cost of policyholder benefits. As of December 31, 2023, Global Atlantic served over three million policyholders. Our Firm We seek to work proactively and collaboratively across business lines, departments, and geographies, as appropriate, to achieve what we believe are the best investment results for our clients and the firm. Through our offices around the world, we have a pre-eminent global integrated platform for sourcing transactions, raising capital and carrying out capital markets activities. We have multilingual and multicultural investment teams with local market knowledge and significant business, investment and operational experience in the countries in which we invest. We believe that our global capabilities and one-firm philosophy have helped us to raise capital, capture a greater number of investment opportunities, and assist our portfolio companies in their increasing reliance on global markets and sourcing, while enabling us to diversify our operations. Though our operations span multiple continents and asset classes, our investment professionals are supported by an integrated infrastructure and operate under a common set of principles and business practices that are monitored by a variety of committees. Our investment teams operate with a single culture that rewards investment discipline, creativity, determination and patience and emphasizes the sharing of information, resources, expertise and best practices across offices and asset classes. When appropriate, we staff investment transactions across multiple offices and businesses in order to take advantage of the industry-specific expertise of our investment professionals, and we hold regular meetings in which investment professionals throughout our offices share their knowledge and experiences. We believe that the ability to draw on the local cultural fluency of our investment professionals while maintaining a centralized and integrated global infrastructure distinguishes us from other investment firms and has been a substantial contributing factor to our ability to raise funds, invest internationally and expand our businesses. 8 Table of Contents Our Business Through December 31, 2023, we operated in two segments: our asset management business and our insurance business. Asset Management In our asset management business, we have five business lines: (1) Private Equity, (2) Real Assets, (3) Credit and Liquid Strategies, (4) Capital Markets, and (5) Principal Activities. Information about our business lines below should be read together with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. As an asset management firm, we earn fees, including management fees and incentive fees, and carried interest for providing investment management and other services to our investment vehicles (including our funds), CLOs, managed accounts, portfolio companies and certain operating companies, and we generate transaction fees from capital markets transactions. We earn additional investment income by investing our own capital alongside investors in our investment vehicles and from other assets on our balance sheet. Carried interest we receive from our funds and certain other investment vehicles entitles us to a specified percentage of investment gains that are generated on third-party capital that is invested. Our investment teams have deep industry knowledge and are supported by a substantial and diversified capital base; an integrated global investment platform; the expertise of operating professionals, senior advisors and other advisors; and a worldwide network of business relationships that provide a significant source of investment opportunities, specialized knowledge during due diligence and substantial resources for creating and realizing value for stakeholders. These teams invest capital, a substantial portion of which is of a long duration or not subject to predetermined redemption requirements, which provides us with significant flexibility to grow investments and select exit opportunities. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 92% of our AUM consists of capital that is either not subject to redemption for at least 8 years from inception or what we refer to as perpetual capital. For more information about the limitations of perpetual capital, please see " Risks Related to Our Business AUM, referred to as perpetual capital, is subject to material reduction, including through withdrawal, redemption or dividends, and termination" in the "Risk Factors" section of this report. We believe that these aspects of our business help us continue to grow our asset management business and deliver strong investment performance in a variety of economic and financial conditions. Since our inception, one of our fundamental investment philosophies has been to align the interests of the firm and our employees with the interests of our fund investors, portfolio companies and other stakeholders. We achieve this by putting our own capital behind our ideas. As of December 31, 2023, we and our employees and other personnel have approximately $25.0 billion invested in or committed to our own funds and portfolio companies, including $12.1 billion of capital funded from our balance sheet, $7.7 billion of additional capital committed by our balance sheet to our investment vehicles, $3.6 billion funded from personal investments, and $1.7 billion of additional capital commitments from personal investments. 9 Table of Contents Private Equity Overview Through our Private Equity business line, we manage and sponsor a group of private equity funds that invest capital for long-term appreciation, either through controlling ownership of a company or strategic non-controlling minority positions. In addition to our traditional private equity funds that invest in large and mid-sized companies, we sponsor funds that invest in core private equity, growth equity, and impact investments. Our Private Equity business line includes separately managed accounts that invest in multiple strategies, which may include our credit and real assets strategies, as well as our private equity strategies. These funds and accounts are managed by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. L.P., an SEC-registered investment adviser. As of December 31, 2023, our Private Equity business line had $176.4 billion of AUM, consisting of $123.7 billion in traditional private equity, including $34.9 billion in core private equity and $17.8 billion in growth equity, which includes $4.4 billion of impact inves