Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2. Properties 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34 Item 6. [Reserved] 35 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 53 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 54 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2022 an d 2021 55 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2022 56 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2022 57 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2022 58 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2022 59 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 60 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 105 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 107 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 107 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 107 Item 9B. Other Information 108 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspectio ns 108 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 108 Item 11. Executive Compensation 108 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 108 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 109 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 109 PART IV Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules 109 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 111 Signatures 111 i Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as may, will, could, would, should, expects, plans, anticipates, relies, believes, estimates, predicts, intends, potential, continues, thinks, seeks, or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Such forward-looking statements include those regarding, among others: the future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic; forecasts of the future results of our operations, including profitability; orders for our products and capital equipment generally; sales of semiconductors; the investments by our customers in advanced technologies and new materials; growth of revenue in the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor capital equipment industry and our business; technological trends in the semiconductor industry; future developments or trends in the global capital and financial markets; our future product offerings and product features; the success and market acceptance of new products; timing of shipment of order backlog; our future product shipments and product and service revenues; our future gross margins; our future research and development ( R D ) expenses and selling, general and administrative ( SG A ) expenses; international sales and operations; our ability to maintain or improve our existing competitive position; success of our product offerings; creation and funding of programs for R D; results of our investment in leading edge technologies; the effects of hedging transactions; the effect of the sale of trade receivables and promissory notes from customers; the effect of future compliance with laws and regulations; our future effective income tax rate; our recognition of tax benefits; the effects of any audits or litigation; future payments of dividends to our stockholders; the completion of any acquisitions of third parties, or the technology or assets thereof; benefits received from any acquisitions and development of acquired technologies; sufficiency of our existing cash balance, investments, cash generated from operations and the unfunded portion of our Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below) to meet our operating and working capital requirements, including debt service and payment thereof; future dividends, and stock repurchases; our compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) for our Revolving Credit Facility; the adoption of new accounting pronouncements; our repayment of our outstanding indebtedness; and our environmental, social and governance ( ESG ) related targets, goals and commitments. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the supply chain constraints we are experiencing as a result of the pandemic; Economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we, our customers and our suppliers operate, including rising inflation and interest rates, Russia's invasion of Ukraine and global trade policies; Disruption to our manufacturing facilities or other operations, or the operations of our customers, due to natural catastrophic events, health epidemics or terrorism; Ongoing changes in the technology industry, and the semiconductor industry in particular, including future growth rates, pricing trends in end-markets, or changes in customer capital spending patterns; Our ability to timely develop new technologies and products that successfully anticipate or address changes in the semiconductor industry; Our ability to maintain our technology advantage and protect our proprietary rights; Our ability to compete with new products introduced by our competitors; Our ability to attract, onboard and retain key personnel; Cybersecurity threats, cyber incidents affecting our and our customers, suppliers and other service providers s ystems and networks and our and their ability to access critical information systems for daily business operations; Liability to our customers under indemnification provisions if our products fail to operate properly or contain defects or our customers are sued by third parties due to our products; Exposure to a highly concentrated customer base; Availability and cost of the wide range of materials used in the production of our products; Our ability to operate our business in accordance with our business plan; Legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business and our ability to comply with relevant laws and regulations; Increasing attention to ESG matters and the resulting costs, risks and impact on our business; Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our current indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, our credit rating and the ongoing interest rate environment, among other factors; ii Table of Contents Instability in the global credit and financial markets; Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, or declining economic conditions in those countries where we conduct our business; Changes in our effective tax rate resulting from changes in the tax rates imposed by jurisdictions where our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, expiration of tax holidays in certain jurisdictions, resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various authorities or changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; Our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets and successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses; and Unexpected delays, difficulties and expenses in executing against our environmental, climate, diversity and inclusion or other ESG targets, goals and commitments outlined in this report. This report contains ESG-related statements based on hypothetical scenarios and assumptions as well as estimates that are subject to a high level of uncertainty, and these statements should not necessarily be viewed as being representative of current or actual risk or performance, or forecasts of expected risk or performance. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental and social-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, and internal controls and processes that continue to evolve. Forward-looking and other statements in this report may also address our corporate responsibility and sustainability progress, plans, and goals, and the inclusion of such statements is not an indication that these contents are necessarily material for the purposes of complying with or reporting pursuant to the U.S. federal securities laws and regulations, even if we use the word material or materiality in this report. For a more detailed discussion of these and other risk factors, that might cause or contribute to differences from the forward looking statements in this report, see Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in Item 1, Business and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. You should carefully review these risks and also review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that we will file in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2023. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligation and do not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this report after the date hereof. iii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Certain industry and technical terms used in this section are defined in the subsection entitled Glossary found at the end of this Item 1. The Company KLA Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries ( KLA or the Company and also referred to as we, our, us, or similar references) is a supplier of industry-leading equipment and services that enables innovation throughout the electronics industry. We provide advanced process control and process-enabling solutions for manufacturing wafers, reticles, chemicals/materials, integrated circuits ( IC or chip ), packaged ICs, printed circuit boards ( PCB ), and flat panel displays ( FPD ), as well as comprehensive support and services across our installed base. Our suite of advanced products, coupled with our unique yield management software and services, allow us to deliver the solutions our customers need to achieve their productivity goals, including improving yields and reducing waste, by significantly reducing their risks and costs and improving their overall profitability and return on investment. KLA was formed as KLA-Tencor in April 1997 through the merger of KLA Instruments Corporation and Tencor Instruments, two long-time leaders in the semiconductor capital equipment industry that began operations in 1975 and 1976, respectively. On February 20, 2019, KLA completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. ( Orbotech ), a global supplier of yield-enhancing and process-enabling solutions for the manufacture of electronics products, in order to target growth opportunities in new and expanding end markets. We are organized into four reportable segments: Semiconductor Process Control; Specialty Semiconductor Process; PCB, Display and Component Inspection; and Other. Within the Semiconductor Process Control segment, our comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and software products, and related services, help IC, wafer, reticle and chemical/materials manufacturers achieve target yields throughout the entire fabrication process, from R D to final volume production. These products and services are designed to provide comprehensive solutions to help customers accelerate development and production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable product yields and improve their overall profitability. Within the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment, which includes the SPTS business, KLA develops and sells advanced vacuum deposition and etching process tools, which are used by a broad range of specialty semiconductor customers, including manufacturers of microelectromechanical systems ( MEMS ), radio frequency ( RF ) communication semiconductors, and power semiconductors for automotive and industrial applications. Within the PCB, Display and Component Inspection segment, which includes the PCB, FPD, Frontline and ICOS businesses, KLA enables electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test and measure PCBs, FPDs and packaged ICs to verify their quality, pattern the desired electronic circuitry on the relevant substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of metalized circuits on multiple surfaces. Additional information about KLA is available at www.kla.com. The Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information contained on KLA s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or KLA s other filings with the SEC. Additionally, these filings may be obtained through the SEC s website (www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Investors and others should note that KLA announces material financial information to investors using an investor relations website (ir.kla.com), which includes KLA s SEC filings, press releases, public earnings calls and conference webcasts. The investor relations website is used to communicate with the public about the Company, products, services and other matters. Industry KLA s core focus is enabling technological advances as well as improving manufacturing yields in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor fabrication process begins with a bare silicon wafer - a round disk that is typically 200 millimeters or 300 millimeters in diameter, about as thick as a credit card and gray in color. The process of manufacturing wafers is highly sophisticated and involves the creation of large ingots of silicon by pulling them out of a vat of molten silicon. The ingots are then sliced into wafers. Prime silicon wafers are then polished to a mirror finish. Other, more specialized wafers, such as epitaxial silicon ( epi ), silicon on insulator ( SOI ), gallium nitride ( GaN ) and silicon carbide ( SiC ) are also common in the semiconductor industry. 1 Table of Contents The manufacturing cycle of an IC is grouped into three phases: design, fabrication and testing. IC design involves the architectural layout of the circuit, as well as design verification and reticle generation. The fabrication of a semiconductor chip (or semiconductor ) is accomplished by depositing a series of film layers that act as conductors, semiconductors or insulators on bare wafers. The deposition of these film layers is interspersed with numerous other process steps that create circuit patterns, remove portions of the film layers, and perform other functions such as heat treatment, measurement and inspection. Most advanced chip designs require hundreds of individual steps, many of which are performed multiple times. The majority of chips consist of two main structures: the lower structure, typically consisting of transistors or capacitors which perform the smart functions; and the upper interconnect structure, typically consisting of circuitry which connects the components in the lower structure. When the layers on the wafer have been fabricated, each chip on the wafer is tested for functionality. The wafer is then cut into individual chips, and the chips that pass functional testing are packaged. Final testing is performed on all packaged chips. Packaged chips are then mounted onto PCBs for connection to the rest of the electronic system. Additionally, FPDs are manufactured using processes similar to ICs (e.g., film deposition, photolithography, etching) except using glass as the starting substrate. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device manufacturers, which in turn is driven by the current and anticipated market demand for ICs, products utilizing ICs and other electronic components. We do not consider our business to be seasonal in nature, but it has historically been cyclical with respect to the capital equipment procurement practices of semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device manufacturers, and it is impacted by the investment patterns of such manufacturers in different global markets. Downturns in the semiconductor or other industries in which we operate, or slowdowns in the worldwide economy as well as customer consolidation, could have a material adverse effect on our future business and financial results. Companies that anticipate future market demands by developing and advancing new technologies and manufacturing processes are better positioned to lead in the semiconductor market. Accelerating the yield ramp and maximizing production yields of high-performance devices are key goals of modern semiconductor manufacturing. Ramping to high-volume production ahead of competitors can dramatically increase the revenue an IC manufacturer realizes for a given product. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are investing in simultaneous production integration of multiple new process technologies, some requiring new substrate and film materials, new geometries, new transistor architectures, new power distribution schemes, advanced multi-patterning optical and extreme ultraviolet ( EUV ) lithography, and advanced packaging techniques. While many of these technologies have been adopted at the development and pilot production stages of semiconductor manufacturing, significant challenges and risks associated with each technology have affected the adoption of these technologies into high-volume production. For example, as design rules decrease, yields become more sensitive to the size and density of defects. Device performance characteristics (namely speed, capacity or power management) also become more sensitive to parameters such as linewidth and film thickness variation. New process materials require extensive characterization before they can be used in the manufacturing process. Moving several of these advanced technologies into production at once only adds to the risks that chipmakers face. The continuing evolution of semiconductors to smaller geometries and more complex multi-level circuitry has significantly increased the performance and cost requirements of the capital equipment used to manufacture these devices. Construction of an advanced IC fabrication facility today can cost well above $10 billion, substantially more than previous-generation facilities. In addition, chipmakers are demanding increased productivity and higher returns from their manufacturing equipment and are also seeking ways to extend the performance of their existing equipment. The semiconductor capital equipment industry is currently experiencing multiple growth drivers bolstered by demand for semiconductors from leading edge foundry and logic manufacturers to support computational power and connectivity for markets such as artificial intelligence ( AI ) and 5G wireless technology. Growth of virtual engagement and the pace of digitization have been driven by COVID-19 related travel restrictions and quarantines, work from home requirements, and advances in healthcare and industrial applications. These factors together with the increasing adoption of electric vehicles and intelligence in automobiles are powering leading-edge design node technology investments and capacity expansions. Intertwined in these areas, spurred by the requirements of big data, is the growth in demand for memory chips. Regionalization of semiconductors has become a trend as access to semiconductors is viewed from the lens of national security. China continues to emerge as a major region for the manufacturing of logic and memory chips, adding to its role as the world s largest consumer of ICs. Government initiatives are propelling China to expand its domestic manufacturing capacity. Although China is currently seen as an important long-term growth region for the semiconductor capital equipment sector, the U.S. Department of Commerce ( Commerce ) has added certain China-based entities to the U.S. Entity List, restricting our ability to provide products and services to such entities without a license. In addition, Commerce has imposed export licensing requirements on China-based customers engaged in military end uses, as well as requiring our customers to obtain an export license when they use certain semiconductor capital equipment based on U.S. technology to manufacture products connected to Huawei or its affiliates. While these new rules have not significantly impacted our operations to date, such actions by the U.S. government or another country could impact our ability to provide our products and services to existing and potential customers and adversely affect our business. 2 Table of Contents Research and Development The market for semiconductor and electronics industries is characterized by rapid technological development and product innovation. These technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate professional staffing. We make significant investments in product R D for the timely development of new products and enhancements necessary to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote a significant portion of our human and financial resources to R D programs and seek to maintain close relationships with customers to remain responsive to their needs. Our key R D activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 involved the development of process control and process-enabling solutions for a broad range of industries including semiconductors, PCBs and displays. For information regarding our R D expenses during the last three fiscal years, see Item 7 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The strength of our competitive positions in many of our existing markets is largely due to our leading technology, which is the result of our continuing significant investments in product R D. Even during down cycles in the semiconductor industry, we have remained committed to significant engineering efforts toward both product improvement and new product development in order to enhance our competitive position. Customers We count among our largest customers the leading semiconductor, semiconductor-related and electronic device manufacturers in Asia, the U.S. and Europe. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to compete successfully in Asia, one of the largest markets for our equipment. Our ability to compete in this area is dependent upon the continuation of favorable trading relationships between countries in the region and the U.S,, and our continuing ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with leading semiconductor companies in the region. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the following customers each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues, primarily in the Semiconductor Process Control segment: Year Ended June 30, 2022 2021 2020 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sales, Service and Marketing Our sales, service and marketing efforts are aimed at building deep long-term relationships with our customers. We focus on providing comprehensive resources for the full breadth of process control, process-enabling and yield management solutions for manufacturing and testing wafers and reticles, ICs, packaging, light-emitting diodes ( LED ), power devices, compound semiconductor devices, MEMS, data storage, PCBs and flat and flexible panel displays, as well as general materials research. Our revenues are derived primarily from product sales and related service contracts, mostly through our direct sales force. We believe that the size and location of our field sales, service and applications engineering, and marketing organizations represent a competitive advantage in our served markets. We have direct sales forces in Asia, the U.S. and Europe. We maintain an export compliance program that is designed to meet the requirements of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. In addition to sales and service offices in the U.S., we conduct sales, marketing and services out of subsidiaries or branches in many countries, some of the largest include China, Germany, Israel, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. We believe that sales outside the U.S. will continue to be a significant percentage of our total revenues. International revenues accounted for approximately 90%, 89%, and 89% of our total revenues in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Additional information regarding our revenues from foreign operations for our last three fiscal years can be found in Note 19 Segment Reporting and Geographic Information to our Consolidated Financial Statements. International sales and operations may be adversely affected by the imposition of governmental controls, restrictions on export technology, political instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and the difficulties associated with staffing and managing international operations. In addition, international sales may be adversely affected by the economic conditions in each country and by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and such fluctuations may negatively impact our ability to compete on price with local providers or the value of revenues we generate from our international business. Although we attempt to manage some of the currency risk inherent in non-U.S. dollar product sales through hedging activities, there can be 3 Table of Contents no assurance that such efforts will be adequate. These factors, as well as any of the other risk factors related to our international business and operations that are described in