Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 37 Item 2. Properties 37 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 61 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2020 62 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2020 63 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2020 64 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2020 65 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 67 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 114 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 117 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 117 Item 9B. Other Information 118 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 118 Item 11. Executive Compensation 118 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 118 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 118 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 119 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 119 Signatures 120 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 122 Exhibit Index 123 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 124 i Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of words such as may, will, could, would, should, expects, plans, anticipates, relies, believes, estimates, predicts, intends, potential, continue, thinks, seeks, or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Such forward-looking statements include, among others, the future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic; forecasts of the future results of our operations, including profitability; orders for our products and capital equipment generally; sales of semiconductors; the investments by our customers in advanced technologies and new materials; the allocation of capital spending by our customers (and, in particular, the percentage of spending that our customers allocate to process control); growth of revenue in the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor capital equipment industry and our business; technological trends in the semiconductor industry; future developments or trends in the global capital and financial markets; our future product offerings and product features; the success and market acceptance of new products; timing of shipment of backlog; our future product shipments and product and service revenues; our future gross margins; our future research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses; our ability to successfully maintain cost discipline; international sales and operations; our ability to maintain or improve our existing competitive position; success of our product offerings; creation and funding of programs for research and development; attraction and retention of employees; results of our investment in leading edge technologies; the effects of hedging transactions; the effect of the sale of trade receivables and promissory notes from customers; our future effective income tax rate; our recognition of tax benefits; the effects of any audits or litigation; future payments of dividends to our stockholders; the completion of any acquisitions of third parties, or the technology or assets thereof; benefits received from any acquisitions and development of acquired technologies; sufficiency of our existing cash balance, investments, cash generated from operations and the unfunded portion of our revolving line of credit under a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement ) to meet our operating and working capital requirements, including debt service and payment thereof; future dividends, and stock repurchases; our compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement; the adoption of new accounting pronouncements including ASC 842 and ASC 606; the tax liabilities resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; and our repayment of our outstanding indebtedness. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in Item 1, Business and Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. You should carefully review these risks and also review the risks described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that we will file in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and we expressly assume no obligation and do not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this report after the date hereof. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Certain industry and technical terms used in this section are defined in the subsection entitled Glossary found at the end of this Item 1. The Company KLA Corporation ( KLA or the Company and also referred to as we or our ) is a global leader in process control and a supplier of process-enabling solutions for a broad range of industries, including semiconductors, printed circuit boards ("PCBs") and displays. We provide solutions for manufacturing and testing wafers and reticles, integrated circuits ( IC or chip ), packaging, light emitting diodes, power devices, compound semiconductor devices, microelectromechanical systems, data storage, printed circuit boards, flat and flexible panel displays, and general materials research, as well as providing contracted and comprehensive installation and maintenance services across our installed base. KLA was formed as KLA-Tencor in April 1997 through the merger of KLA Instruments Corporation and Tencor Instruments, two long-time leaders in the semiconductor equipment industry that began operations in 1975 and 1976, respectively. In February 2019, KLA completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. ( Orbotech ) and transformed its organizational structure into four reportable segments: Semiconductor Process Control; Specialty Semiconductor Process; PCB, Display and Component Inspection; and Other. Within the Semiconductor Process Control segment, our comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data analytics products, and related service help integrated circuit manufacturers achieve target yield throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process from research and development ( R D ) to final volume production. KLA s differentiated products and services are designed to provide comprehensive solutions to help customers accelerate development and production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields and improve their overall profitability. In the Specialty Semiconductor Process segment, KLA develops and sells advanced vacuum deposition and etching process tools, which are used by a broad range of specialty semiconductor customers, including manufacturers of microelectromechanical systems ( MEMS ), radio frequency ( RF ) communication chips, and power semiconductors for automotive and industrial applications. In the PCB, Display and Component Inspection segment, KLA enables electronic device manufacturers to inspect, test and measure PCBs, flat panel displays ( FPDs ) and ICs to verify their quality, pattern the desired electronic circuitry on the relevant substrate and perform three-dimensional shaping of metalized circuits on multiple surfaces. KLA s suite of advanced products, coupled with its unique yield management software and services, allow us to deliver the solutions our semiconductor, printed circuit board and display customers need to achieve their productivity goals by significantly reducing their risks and costs and improving their overall profitability and returns on investment. Additional information about KLA is available at www.kla.com. The Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Information contained on KLA s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or KLA s other filings with the SEC. Additionally, these filings may be obtained through the SEC s website (www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Investors and others should note that KLA announces material financial information to investors using an investor relations website (ir.kla.com), including SEC filings, press releases, public earnings calls and conference webcasts. These channels are used to communicate with the public about the company, products, services and other matters. Industry General Background KLA s core focus is the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor fabrication process begins with a bare silicon wafer a round disk that is typically 200 millimeters or 300 millimeters in diameter, about as thick as a credit card and gray in color. The process of manufacturing wafers is highly sophisticated and involves the creation of large ingots of silicon by pulling them 1 Table of Contents out of a vat of molten silicon. The ingots are then sliced into wafers. Prime silicon wafers are then polished to a mirror finish. Other, more specialized wafers, such as epitaxial silicon ( epi ), silicon on insulator ( SOI ), gallium nitride ( GaN ) and silicon carbide ( SiC ) are also common in the semiconductor industry. The manufacturing cycle of an IC is grouped into three phases: design, fabrication and testing. IC design involves the architectural layout of the circuit, as well as design verification and reticle generation. The fabrication of a chip is accomplished by depositing a series of film layers that act as conductors, semiconductors or insulators on bare wafers. The deposition of these film layers is interspersed with numerous other process steps that create circuit patterns, remove portions of the film layers, and perform other functions such as heat treatment, measurement and inspection. Most advanced chip designs require hundreds of individual steps, many of which are performed multiple times. The majority of chips consist of two main structures: the lower structure, typically consisting of transistors or capacitors which perform the smart functions; and the upper interconnect structure, typically consisting of circuitry which connects the components in the lower structure. When the layers on the wafer have been fabricated, each chip on the wafer is tested for functionality. The wafer is then cut into individual chips, and the chips that pass functional testing are packaged. Final testing is performed on all packaged chips. Packaged chips are then mounted onto PCBs for connection to the rest of the electronic system. Additionally, flat panel displays are manufactured using processes similar to ICs (e.g., film deposition, photolithography, etching) except using glass as the starting substrate. The semiconductor equipment industry is currently experiencing multiple growth drivers bolstered by demand for chips from leading edge foundry and logic manufacturers to support computational power and connectivity for markets such as artificial intelligence ( AI ) and 5G wireless technology. Growth of the virtual interaction driven by COVID-19 related travel restrictions and quarantines as well as work from home requirements, advances in healthcare and industrial application together with the increasing adoption of electrical vehicles and intelligence in automobiles are powering leading-edge node technology investments and capacity expansions. Intertwined in these areas, spurred by the requirements of big data, is the growth in demand for memory chips. Finally, China continues to emerge as a major region for manufacturing of logic and memory chips, adding to its role as the world s largest consumer of ICs. Government initiatives are propelling China to expand its domestic manufacturing capacity. China is currently seen as an important long-term growth region for the semiconductor capital equipment sector. The semiconductor industry continually introduces numerous technology changes to support this multi-segmented market growth. KLA s inspection, metrology and data analytics technologies play key roles in enabling our customers to develop and manufacture advanced semiconductor devices to support and innovate around these trends. Companies that anticipate future market demands by developing and refining new technologies and manufacturing processes are better positioned to lead in the semiconductor market. Accelerating the yield ramp and maximizing production yields of high-performance devices are key goals of modern semiconductor manufacturing. Ramping to high-volume production ahead of competitors can dramatically increase the revenue an IC manufacturer realizes for a given product. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are investing in simultaneous production integration of multiple new process technologies, some requiring new substrate and film materials, new geometries, advanced multi-patterning and EUV lithography, and advanced packaging techniques. While many of these technologies have been adopted at the development and pilot production stages of chip manufacturing, significant challenges and risks associated with each technology have affected the adoption of these technologies into full-volume production. For example, as design rules decrease, yields become more sensitive to the size and density of defects, and device performance characteristics (namely speed, capacity or power management) become more sensitive to parameters such as linewidth and film thickness variation. New process materials, such as photoresists for EUV lithography, require extensive characterization before they can be used in the manufacturing process. Moving several of these advanced technologies into production at once only adds to the risks that chipmakers face. The continuing evolution of semiconductors to smaller geometries and more complex multi-level circuitry has significantly increased the performance and cost requirements of the capital equipment used to manufacture these devices. Construction of an advanced wafer fabrication facility today can cost well above $10.00 billion, substantially more than previous-generation facilities. In addition, chipmakers are demanding increased productivity and higher returns from their manufacturing equipment and are also seeking ways to extend the performance of their existing equipment. By developing new process control and yield management tools that help chipmakers accelerate the adoption and production of these new technologies at scale, KLA enables customers to better leverage increasingly expensive facilities and improve return on investment ( ROI ). Once customers production lines are operating at high volume, KLA s systems monitor to ensure yields are stable and process excursions are identified for quick resolution. In addition, each new generation s smaller design rules, coupled with new materials and device innovation, increased in-process variability, which requires a subsequent increase in inspection and metrology sampling. KLA systems not only analyze defectivity and metrology issues at critical points in the wafer, reticle and IC manufacturing processes, but also provide information to our customers so they can identify and address the underlying process 2 Table of Contents problems. The ability to locate the source of defects and resolve the underlying process issues enables KLA customers to improve control over the manufacturing processes, increasing their yield of high-performance parts and delivering products to market faster thus maximizing profits. With a broad portfolio of application-focused technologies and dedicated yield technology expertise, KLA is in position to be a key supplier of comprehensive yield management solutions for customers next-generation products. KLA helps customers respond to the challenges posed by shrinking device sizes, the transition to new production materials, new device and circuit architectures, more demanding lithography processes, and new packaging techniques. KLA s SPTS group, a semiconductor processing business from the Orbotech acquisition, develops and sells differentiated custom deposition and etching solutions for fast-growing markets, such as power and analog devices, RF communication chips and MEMS. These devices, which are often built on non-traditional substrates like SiC and GaN, have become critical to accelerating some of the secular trends in automotive, industrial and communication industries. Infrastructure build-out for 5G creates demand for RF components, new SiC and GaN based power devices are moving into volume production for electric vehicles, and high-density packaging is growing to support AI. KLA provides a comprehensive portfolio of PCB tools, services and solutions to accelerate technology transitions and production ramp. Our portfolio includes inline inspection tools to monitor the quality of printed circuit board fabrication, equipment to repair defective boards, digital imaging technologies to print fine geometry according to the design, and computer aided manufacturing ( CAM ) software. Growth in the PCB business is driven mainly by investments in 5G technology and its supporting applications: smartphones, autonomous vehicles, AI and cloud servers/high performance computing. These applications will be based on several technological segments including flexible printed circuits ( FPCs ), high density interconnect ( HDI ), PCBs, and IC substrates. KLA also provides complete yield management solutions for the FPD market including automated optical inspection systems, repair technologies and electrical testers. An accelerated transition to organic light emitting diode ( OLED ) displays to serve the mobile market, introduction of OLED technology for large size TVs, and a steep ramp in liquid crystal display ( LCD ) production for televisions in China are driving the flat panel display business. New technologies, such as microLED, represent a growth opportunity for KLA in the display market. Products KLA develops industry-leading equipment and services that enable innovation throughout the electronics industry. We provide advanced process control and process-enabling solutions for manufacturing wafers, reticles, integrated circuits, packaging, printed circuit boards, and flat and flexible panel displays. KLA s inspection, metrology and data analytics products and related offerings can be broadly categorized as supporting customers in the following groups: Chip and Wafer Manufacturing; Reticle Manufacturing; Packaging Manufacturing; Compound Semiconductor and Hard Disk Drive Manufacturing; and General Purpose/Lab Applications. Orbotech s inspection, repair, imaging, laser drilling and electrical testing support customers in Printed Circuit Board Manufacturing and Flexible and Flat Panel Display Manufacturing. SPTS s wafer processing equipment supports customers in Advanced Packaging Manufacturing and manufacturing of semiconductor devices such as MEMS, high speed RF ICs, power semiconductors and LEDs. Some of the company s more significant products are described below and are also included in the broader product table at the end of this Products section. Semiconductor Process Control: Chip and Wafer Manufacturing KLA s comprehensive portfolio of defect inspection, review, metrology, patterning simulation, in situ process monitoring and data analytics products, and related service, software and other offerings, helps substrate and chip manufacturers manage quality throughout wafer and chip fabrication processes. These offerings are designed to help our customers accelerate their development and production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields, and improve their overall profitability. Defect Inspection and Review KLA s wafer defect inspection and review systems cover a broad range of applications for IC and substrate manufacturers, including research and development, wafer qualification, reticle qualification, and tool, process and line monitoring. Patterned and unpatterned wafer inspectors find particles, pattern defects and electrical issues on the front surface, back surface and edge of the wafer, allowing engineers to detect and monitor critical yield and reliability excursions. Our defect review systems capture high resolution images of the defects detected by inspection tools, helping substrate manufacturers and chipmakers identify and resolve yield issues. Fabs rely on our high sensitivity reticle inspection systems to identify defects on 3 Table of Contents reticles at an early stage and to prevent reticle defects from printing on production wafers. By implementing our defect inspection and review systems, chipmakers and substrate manufacturers can take quick corrective action, resulting in faster quality improvement and better time to market. For patterned wafer optical inspection, we provide our 3920 Series, 3900 Series, 2950 Series, 2930 Series, 2920 Series, 2910 Series and 2900 Series (high resolution broadband plasma defect inspection); the Voyager 1015 (laser scanning defect inspection); the Puma 9980 Series, Puma 9850 Series and Puma 9650 Series (laser scanning defect inspection); our 8 Series systems, including the 8930, introduced in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, (high productivity defect inspection); and our CIRCL cluster tool (defect inspection, review and metrology of all wafer surfaces front side, edge and backside). Our eDR7380 electron-beam (e-beam) wafer defect review and classification system produces a comprehensive defect pareto in one test for accurate defect sourcing during production. Unique synergy with our inspectors facilitates identification and classification of patterned wafer, bare wafer and bevel edge defects for faster yield learning during IC and wafer manufacturing. Our eSL10 electron-beam ( e-beam ) patterned wafer defect inspection system was launched during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. The eSL10 detects very small defects, including those at the bottom of deep trenches and contact holes, helping chipmakers accelerate development and ramp of advanced logic and memory devices. For unpatterned wafer inspection, we provide our Surfscan SP7, Surfscan SP5 and Surfscan SP3 inspectors. These Surfscan Series systems find defects on bare wafers, smooth films and rough films. We also offer our SURFmonitor technology for surface quality measurements and capture of low-contrast defects. For wafer manufacturers, the Surfscan Series detects defects and assesses surface quality during the development and production of polished wafers, epi wafers and engineered substrates. These systems also play a critical role in determining outgoing substrate quality. For chip manufacturers, the Surfscan systems qualify incoming bare wafers, and qualify and monitor processes from development through production. For original equipment manufacturers ( OEMs ) and materials suppliers, the Surfscan Series support process development and process tool qualification. For in-fab reticle qualification, we offer the Teron SL650 Series and X5.3 reticle inspection systems. These inspectors allow IC fabs to qualify incoming reticles and inspect production reticles for contaminants and other process-related changes. Metrology KLA s metrology solutions address IC and substrate manufacturing, as well as scientific research and other applications. Precise metrology and control of pattern dimensions, film thicknesses, layer-to-layer alignment, pattern placement, surface topography, electro-optical and electromagnetic properties are important in many industries as devices are becoming more complex with shrinking critical dimensions and narrowing film thicknesses. The Archer Series of imaging-based overlay metrology systems enable characterization of overlay error on lithography process layers for advanced patterning technologies. These systems include the Archer 750, launched during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, which utilizes wavelength tunability to produce accurate overlay measurements. The ATL Series of scatterometry-based overlay metrology systems utilize tunable laser technology to accurately measure overlay error measurements in the presence of production process variations. The SpectraShape optical CD and shape metrology systems characterize and monitor the critical dimensions ( CDs ) and 3D shapes of geometrically complex features incorporated by some IC manufacturers into their latest generation devices. These systems include the SpectraShape 11k metrology system, launched during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, which precisely measures the CDs and three-dimensional shapes of finFET, 3D NAND and other complex IC device structures at critical process steps. The SpectraFilm and Aleris film metrology systems provide precise measurement of film thickness, refractive index, stress and composition for a broad range of film layers. The SpectraFilm F1 film metrology system, employs optical technologies that determine single- and multi-layer film thicknesses and uniformity with high precision to monitor deposition processes in production, and deliver bandgap data used to predict device electrical performance earlier than end of line test. The PWG3 and PWG2 patterned wafer geometry metrology systems measure stress-induced wafer shape, wafer shape-induced pattern overlay errors, wafer thickness variations and wafer dual-sided topography for a wide range of IC manufacturing processes. This data is used for inline monitoring of fab processes, overlay corrections and scanner focus control, enabling improved patterning and faster yield ramp. Our WaferSight bare wafer geometry metrology systems are used by substrate manufacturers to qualify polished and epitaxial silicon wafers, engineered and other advanced substrates. 4 Table of Contents Magnetic random-access memory ( MRAM ) manufacturing requires the control of deposition, annealing, magnetization and etch of very thin ferromagnetic layers. These memory cells can make up a standalone memory chip or are embedded into a logic chip when the chip is getting close to completion. At this late stage, the value of the chip is high so the MRAM cell must be carefully controlled to maintain high yield. KLA offers several systems for manufacturing control of MRAM processes, including the CAPRES CIPTech and microHall series, and the MicroSense PKMRAM and KerrMapper systems. Data Analytics The data generated by our inspection, metrology and in situ process monitoring systems are compiled and reduced to relevant root cause and yield analysis information with our suite of data analytics and management tools. The OVALiS Software Suite joined our data analytics product portfolio through the acquisition of Qoniac GmbH during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020. OVALiS supports on-product process optimization, diagnostics, monitoring and control for lithography and other patterning steps that are critical to IC manufacturing. Our 5D Analyzer advanced data analysis and patterning control system offers an extendible, open architecture that accepts data from a wide range of metrology and process tools to enable advanced analysis, characterization and real-time control of fab-wide process variations. Our Klarity automated defect and yield analysis systems help IC manufacturers reduce defect inspection, classification and review data to relevant root-cause and yield-analysis information. Our RDC reticle data analysis and management system provides data used for in-fab reticle qualification. Our FabVision data management system offers fab-wide data management and automated yield analysis for wafer manufacturers. In Situ Process Monitoring KLA s SensArray portfolio includes advanced wireless and wired wafers and reticles that enable in situ monitoring of the production process environment for many semiconductor, flat panel display and reticle fabrication processes, and fab-wide monitoring of automated wafer handling. Introduced in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, the EtchTemp-HD in situ wafer temperature measurement system enables across-wafer temperature monitoring that strongly correlates with CD uniformity control for conductor etch applications, while the MaskTemp 2 in situ reticle temperature measurement system is used b