Item 1. Business 1 Item 1A. Risk Factors 4 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 11 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 11 Item 2. Propertie s 13 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 13 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 13 I nf ormation A bout O ur Executive Officers 14 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 16 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 30 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 32 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 70 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 70 Item 9B. Other Information 71 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions That Prevent Inspections 71 Part III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 72 Item 11. Executive Compensation 72 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 72 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 73 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 76 Signatures 77 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2023 Annual Report PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Kimberly-Clark Corporation was founded in 1872 and incorporated in Delaware in 1928. We are a global company focused on delivering products and solutions that provide better care for a better world through product innovation and building our personal care, consumer tissue and K-C Professional brands. We are principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of products made from natural or synthetic fibers and materials using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "Corporation," "Kimberly-Clark," "K-C," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. Description of Kimberly-Clark We are organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable global business segments as follows: Personal Care brands offer our consumers a trusted partner in caring for themselves and their families by delivering confidence, protection and discretion through a wide variety of innovative solutions and products such as disposable diapers, training and youth pants, swimpants, baby wipes, feminine and incontinence care products, reusable underwear and other related products. Products in this segment are sold under the Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, DryNites, Sweety, Kotex, U by Kotex, Intimus, Thinx, Poise, Depend, Plenitud, Softex and other brand names. Consumer Tissue offers a wide variety of innovative solutions and trusted brands that responsibly improve everyday living for families around the world. Products in this segment include facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products, and are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Andrex, Viva, Scottex and other brand names. K-C Professional partners with businesses to create Exceptional Workplaces, helping to make them healthier, safer and more productive through a range of solutions and supporting products such as wipers, tissue, towels, personal protective equipment, soaps and sanitizers. Our brands, including Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech and KleenGuard are well known for quality and trusted to help people around the world work better. These reportable segments were determined in accordance with how our chief operating decision maker and our executive managers develop and execute our global strategies to drive growth and profitability of our Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and K-C Professional operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management and capacity, and capital investments for each of these businesses. Products for household use are sold directly to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets, as well as through other distributors and e-commerce. Products for away-from-home use are sold through distributors, directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, and high-volume public facilities, and through e-commerce. Our largest customer, Walmart Inc., represented approximately 13 percent in 2023 and 2022 and 14 percent in 2021 of our consolidated net sales. Net sales to Walmart Inc. were primarily in the Personal Care and Consumer Tissue segments. On February 24, 2022, we completed our acquisition of a majority and controlling share of Thinx Inc. ( Thinx ), an industry leader in the reusable period and incontinence underwear category, for total consideration of $181 consisting of cash of $53, the fair value of our previously held equity investment of $127, and certain share-based award costs of $1. In the first quarter of 2023, we delivered a redemption notice to the third-party minority owner with respect to a portion of the remaining common securities of Thinx. This redemption closed in the second quarter of 2023, and we acquired additional ownership of Thinx for $48, increasing our ownership in Thinx to 70 percent. As part of the completion of a negotiated final redemption, we acquired the remaining 30 percent ownership of Thinx for $47 in the fourth quarter of 2023. See Item 8, Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details. 1 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2023 Annual Report On June 1, 2023, we completed the sale transaction, announced on October 24, 2022, of our Neve tissue brand and related consumer and K-C Professional tissue assets in Brazil for $212, including the base purchase price of $175 and working capital and other closing adjustments of $37. This transaction also included a licensing agreement to allow the acquirer to manufacture and market in Brazil the Kleenex, Scott and Wypall brands to consumers and away-from-home customers for a period of time. See Item 8, Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details. Patents and Trademarks We own various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. We consider the patents and trademarks that we own and the trademarks under which we sell certain of our products to be material to our business. Consequently, we seek patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration. Raw Materials Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for our tissue products, and in the form of fluff pulp, is a component of disposable diapers, training and youth pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products. Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence care products, and away-from-home wipers and apparel. Superabsorbent materials are important components of disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products. Raw materials are purchased from third parties, and we consider the supply to be adequate to meet the needs of our businesses. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Competition We have several major competitors in most of our markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than us. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors." Foreign Market Risks We operate and market our products globally, and our business strategy includes targeted growth in Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect our financial results. Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Better care for a better world begins with focusing on the health and safety of our customers, consumers, and employees; promoting the value of inclusion, equity and diversity within our business; and making efforts to protect the rights of workers across our supply chain. We believe we can make meaningful contributions through our business activities and operations to clean water and sanitation, climate action and responsible consumption and production. Our sustainability strategy puts our brand, supply chain and innovation teams to work with the goal of creating shared value by addressing relevant global challenges and is focused on addressing key climate-related risks and opportunities throughout our value chain. We strive to make lives better while also working to help safeguard the earth s natural systems. We implement this effort by considering our sustainability goals during our business and capital planning processes, coordinating the priorities of our supply chain, brand and innovation teams, and establishing meaningful performance indicators. Our environmental priorities include reducing our use of new fossil fuel-based plastic, while enabling circular systems to recover the materials in our products and packaging; reducing our products use of natural forest fiber, while supporting forest biodiversity and forest dependent communities; reducing greenhouse gas emissions along our value chain, with goals approved by the Science Based Targets initiative ("SBTi"); and building resilience to water risk at our facilities and in our communities in water-stressed regions around the world. We have aligned our goals with the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals framework. Progress on our strategy is outlined in our Global Sustainability reports. 2 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2023 Annual Report For 2024 and 2025, we expect total capital expenditures for voluntary environmental controls or controls necessary to comply with legal requirements relating to the protection of the environment at our facilities to average approximately $50 on an annual basis. Total operating expenses for environmental compliance, including pollution control equipment operation and maintenance costs, governmental fees, and research and engineering costs, are expected to be approximately $100 in 2024 and $110 in 2025. Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. Current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans or changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change or other factors. Regulatory Compliance We are subject to many laws and regulations across all the countries in which we do business, and we are particularly impacted by those relating to product safety, environmental protection and data privacy and protection. We are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and antitrust and competition laws and regulations that govern our dealings with suppliers, customers, competitors and government officials. We are obligated to comply with regulations that cover product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. These include requirements that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers of risks of using our products. In some cases, it may be necessary to initiate product recalls if safety risks are considered to exist. All our facilities and other operations are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater. We are also subject to expanding laws and regulations related to sustainability-related matters, non-financial reporting and diligence, labor and employment, trade, taxation and data privacy and protection, including the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation, Brazil's General Data Protection Law, China's Personal Information Protection Law, and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018. Our policy is to abide by all applicable laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place to manage global compliance with these various requirements. We also expect that our many suppliers, consultants and other third parties working on our behalf share our commitment to compliance, and we have policies and procedures in place to manage these relationships, though they inherently involve a lesser degree of control over operations and governance. We monitor each of these areas for new or changed regulatory requirements, particularly in the rapidly evolving area of data privacy and protection. We have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws and regulations; however, total capital expenditures and operating expenses related to compliance are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. Human Capital Management We had approximately 41,000 employees as of December 31, 2023 in our consolidated operations. Approximately 35 percent of our employees were located in North America and the remainder were in approximately 60 countries outside of North America. Overall, approximately 55 percent of our workforce was directly involved in manufacturing and distribution operations. In order to recruit, retain, develop, protect and fairly compensate our employees, we focus on the following four key areas: Inclusion, equity and diversity We believe our business success is tied to creating workplaces, communities and experiences where inclusion, equity and diversity are evident and thriving. We prioritize the need to cultivate a workforce where our employees are included and empowered to do their best work. Employing people from disparate backgrounds, cultures, and experiences amplifies our ability to gather insights, foster innovation and understand the culture, context, and mindset of consumers around the world. As a company who serves global consumers and communities, we work to cultivate a workforce comprised of people who look, think, and behave like the people who use our products now and in the future. As such, we support workforce inclusion, equity and diversity and consider it a fundamental business strategy. The Management Development and Compensation Committee ( MDC ) of the Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing our inclusion, equity and diversity strategy. 3 KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2023 Annual Report Health and safety We strive to protect the health and safety of our employees. We create and administer company-wide policies and processes designed to protect our employees and to comply with applicable safety regulations. Health and safety training is regularly provided to our employees. We review and monitor our performance closely to drive continuous improvement in our safety programs. Development and employee engagement Developing talent and leaders at all levels of the organization and engaging our employees is critical to our long-term success. We maintain talent and succession planning processes and have leadership and management development programs as well as broad learning opportunities to support career growth and skill advancement. We also offer all employees the opportunity to join any of our Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs"). These groups foster professional development, social connectivity, and celebrate diversity throughout our company. Current ERGs provide community and insights into the perspectives and experiences of those with African, Hispanic, Latino, and Asian ancestry, women, and LGBTQ+, as well as parents, caregivers, people with disabilities, military veterans, and new employees. Our ERGs promote career development by allowing employees to connect with and learn from one another and help amplify our inclusion, equity and diversity efforts. In regard to employee engagement, we hold regular Town Hall meetings where employees can ask questions of executives and make their voice heard. We host a series of conversations to drive employee and leadership engagement across a variety of topics on inclusion. We engage in continuous listening via global surveys, on an ongoing basis, that offer our employees the ability to provide feedback and valuable insights to help address potential issues and identify opportunities to improve and support employee engagement. Compensation and benefits We provide market-based competitive compensation through our salary, annual incentive and long-term incentive programs and robust benefits packages that promote employee well-being across all aspects of their lives. Eligible employees are compensated for their contributions to our goals with both short-term cash incentives and long-term equity-based incentives. We also provide a variety of resources and services to help our employees plan for retirement. We believe the structure of our compensation packages provides the appropriate incentives to attract, retain and motivate our employees. The MDC is responsible for establishing and administering the policies governing annual compensation and long-term compensation to ensure that the policies are designed to align compensation with our overall business strategy and performance. Available Information We make financial information, news releases and other information available on our corporate website at www.kimberly-clark.com . Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.